ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really impossible for three speakers to say what they have to say about this subject in 15 minutes. The Serbian Radical Party always has problems with time, because it gets little time, unlike other parliamentary groups that never use their time. But let me hurry in these few minutes, to remind you, before that "buldozer revolution" of yours started, that we had a state and a constitution. The state's name was Yugoslavia. The constitution was called the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Then that revolution happened, then Solana came to you with your hands bloody to your elbows, and you, according to the color of his hands, spread the red carpet instead of arresting him, according to the indictment that was brought against him. You let him build us a monster state, a state that doesn't look like anything, a state that hasn't been recorded anywhere in history and a constitution that's never been recorded in history. Our country is called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We say - the state union, Milo Djukanovic and the ruling nomenclature in Montenegro says - the community of states. The constitutional statutes and the state have been given to you, the deadline has passed, we have come to the situation that this parliament of the state community does not have, the legitimacy does not exist. Then you called again on that same Solan to attach something to you that would be called: amendments to the Constitutional Charter, you literally destroyed the state -- both Serbia and the state community. What happens next? The president of the Serbian state is going and openly representing the separatist tendencies of Milo Djukanovic, his father representing the interests of the Serbs from Montenegro and the common state. If Dad had beaten his son a little earlier, I don't think things like this would have happened. Bogdanovic, the mayor of Belgrade, also leaves, supports Montenegro's secessionist policy, and here advocates a common state. As for G17 plus, Labus, I remember, openly saying that Serbia should separate from Montenegro. Now the G17 plus supports the community. What community? You brought in Davinic as Army Minister, Davinic, who earned a pension in NATO, so he has schooled and can now say: I finished the job, the army is gone. Our army is starving, a technique from the '50s and '60s. The only thing that interests some of us here in this ruling structure is the assets of the Yugoslav Army. The Serbian Radical Party is for the single Serb state, which is in Montenegro and Serbia. So, for a single state, not for a community of states, and not for something like this, which opens up opportunities for separatists to finish their jobs, to break down; and to remind you, after Montenegro comes Kosovo, after that Raska, and after that, Vojvodina. There's really no time, and there's a lot more to be told, but I have to let the rest of my parliamentary group come out and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16028	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. You've got 11 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16029	Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments to the Constitutional Charter have been tried to fix something done by the president of the state union, Serbia-Montenegro, Svetozar Marovic. He had an obligation, according to the Constitutional Charter, to call direct elections for the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly. For reasons unknown, he didn't do it. There was a situation that could not have come out differently, but that the international community was re-arbiting, that Javier Solana would appear, which would solve our internal problems. Article 20. Constitutional Charters, and Article 9. The Law implementing the Constitutional Charter provides for direct elections to be held after two years of work by the Assembly of the State Community for the election of MPs in the Assembly of the State Community. The deadline was missed and thus Svetozar Marovic directly violated the Constitutional Charter. Article 31 The Constitutional Charter provides for a procedure to resolve the president of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a situation where the president of the state union violates the Constitutional Charter. The authority responsible for assessing whether the Constitutional Charter has been violated is the court of the state union, and the procedure is initiated by the Assembly. Neither the assembly initiated proceedings nor the state union court discussed whether or not the president of the state union violated the Constitutional Charter. To get out of this situation, it started with amendments to the Constitutional Charter, to Article 20. Constitutional statutes to allow for the legitimate functioning of the Federal Assembly. However, this amendment does not provide for retroactivity. So the period from March to the day of adoption of these amendments is not covered, so the current status of the National Community Assembly is completely illegal. An even bigger paradox is that the Law implementing these amendments I and II stipulates that the term of office of the president of the state union should continue until the direct election of MPs from the Member States. In theory, it is possible that parliamentary elections could be held in Serbia in October, and the president of the state union took office in March 2003, which means that his mandate would last more than four and a half years. Article 29 The Constitutional Charter provides for the term of office of the president of the state union to last four years. We would then be in a paradoxical situation if these unmistakable and poorly written amendments were effectively extended to the mandate of the president of the state union. In addition, the absence of the assembly has absolutely no responsibility nor the president of the state union, nor the Council of Ministers, since it is members of 28th and 37th. The Constitutional Charter provides that both the president of the state union and the Council of Ministers meet the National Assembly. With this, Svetozar Marovic, in one of these ways, committed a coup, took over the powers that did not belong to him under the Constitutional Charter and disbanded the most important body of the state union, which is the National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16030	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, last year when one opposition party in the Montenegrin parliament submitted a proposal to amend the Law on Elections in the Assembly of the State Community and when in their parliament, which is headed by the Separatist Brotherhood, headed by Milo Djukanovic, insisted that elections for the Assembly of the State Community were pointless and such survival of the state community – meanwhile, they set out in an open campaign and the decommissioning of a single cultural, historical and national space, which is now called the state union – we were clear, first of all, to us Serbian radicals, that elections for the Assembly of the state community in a direct manner, as foreseen by the Constitutional Charter, which the Serbian Radical Party voted against, would be postponed. There is little time left, but I would like to remind you today only of some of the words sent by Serbian Radical Party President Prof. Vojislav Seselj from the assembly speaker on 27 January 2003. I have a stenogram in front of me and I'm going to tell you just a few things that Dr. Seselj warned you about, saying that what we have today and what is called a state union, and it's not a confederation, or a real union, or something that exists anywhere in the world, is actually condemned in advance to manipulation by state leadership, both Serbian, previous DOS, and separatist from Montenegro. And certainly he was right when he said that the way the federal constitution was changed, the way the Constitutional Charter was brought, without procedures and two-thirds majority, and with the fact that a mongoloid was created, in fact, from the state, something which he would also manipulate Milo Djukanovic and separatist leaders in the other republic. Dr. Seselj indicated that he was in Article 3. The Constitutional Charter, first of all, vaguely defined the goal of the new state community and said whether it was a state union, whether it was a state and whether it had an army. It turns out that the military is systematically destroying, that Boris Tadic, now the current president of the Republic, has begun to continue those who are at the helm of the state today. Then he further said that the Constitutional Charter tried to determine the goals of the state, which is the country in the world that has its objectives. Does the EU have objectives? Is there Germany, France, America? The state is the goal of itself, the state is formed to be its own goal. Her longevity is her sole goal. She has no other goals, said Dr. Seselj at the time. It turns out that even the leadership in Serbia, just like in Montenegro, did not understand the goal of the existence and necessity of the survival of the unique space on which the Serb people live for centuries. The defined criteria for joining the EU and all that you have been calling for, and especially the previous DOS government, speak of us as a people today in an extremely difficult situation because of the consent to such trampling anyway unconstitutional constitutional charter and damage, above all, to the Serbian people in Montenegro, to all well-intentioned citizens living in Serbia and Montenegro and to all those whose country is Serbia-Montenegro.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16032	Here you go. There's two more minutes. Mr. Jojic is on the list of MPs who applied for the word. National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16033	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS during this debate have expressed their views and views on these amendments and the amendment of the Constitutional Charter. What needs to be repeated and what needs to be pointed out is whether the Constitutional Charter, which has been brought in the way it is, has fulfilled expectations and what results it has given. This can best be seen on the principle of equality, the objectives to be achieved, to achieve human and minority rights and civil liberties, on the principles of the market economy, on the common market, international subjectivity, establishing and maintaining international relations, determining the competence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, financing the competence of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. When it comes to the constitution of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, it can be said freely that not much has been done there. Woe to a country where the judiciary is not at a decent level, and that is not the case when it comes to the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. You may have in one country and the ugly police and the difficult regime, but if you have a court at the right height, then you have security for your life, for honor and for property. If you don't have a court, you have nothing. The past time since the adoption of the Constitutional Charter has so far shown the best. That is why I believe that the SRS MPs, and because of the short time and used by MPs who spoke before the Serbian Radical Party, did not act in the sense of the Constitutional Charter provisions, because the amendments are being adopted and the constitutional act adopted, so to speak, which should extend the functioning of the state union, but not in the manner provided for by the Constitutional Charter. The Constitutional Charter provides that the Constitutional Charter is to be adopted in such a way as to change the Constitutional Charter in the same way as it is to be adopted and adopted. So neither the Committee on Constitutional Affairs nor the Committee on Legislative Affairs has discussed this and this is a major failure of this House and therefore SRS MPs will not vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16034	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does the representative of the proposing Dr Zoran Loncar, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, want to give the final word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the search. After we have conducted a search, the National Assembly will decide in the day to vote on the amendment to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the draft law implementing amendments I and II to the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLACES ON ACCISATIONS (principles; details – ) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Branko Bosnjak, Zoran Krasic, Dr Veroljub Arsic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Markovic, Goran Cvetanovic, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica and Zlatan Jovanovic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, and afterwards written, MP Branko Bošnjak withdrew the amendments: the amendment which proposed that Article 1a be added after Article 1, to Article 2, to Article 4, which proposed that a new Article 5a be added after Article 5a, the amendment which proposed that Article 5b be added after Article 5a, to Article 9 and to Article 10. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of the debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups, a proportional number of MPs from members of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia – 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, pursuant to Article 89(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the representatives of the parliamentary groups for this agenda point are in front of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Zoran Krasic, and before the Socialist Party of Serbia, Jovan Todorovic. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does Mr Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16035	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, three basic reasons for amending and supplementing the Excise Act. First, as you know, in the last year the price of oil on the world market varies and affects domestic retail prices negatively. We want to enable flexibility in the conduct of excise policy, so that in the event of an increase in the price of oil on the world market, the government gets the opportunity to reduce the excise duty by a certain percentage, and also, if the price drops, it can return it to the old level. This law gives us the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia can temporarily reduce excise duties to a maximum of 20% of the value of excise duties established by law, so that if prices on the world market fall later, they can be increased, up to the maximum level at which they were in the previous period. In particular, in this situation where we have a rise in oil prices on the world market, we want to protect citizens' standards through the reduction of excise duty, so that retail prices remain approximately unchanged, and of course, if tomorrow the situation takes place in the opposite direction, if the price of oil falls, then we can return them again, but not to a level that would be higher than the one established by law, but maximum to the level established by law. It's the first important thing to be predicted in amending the Excise Act. Also, we want to speed up the export of derivatives produced in our refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad, to Kosovo and Metohija, and we therefore foresee this law that if the sale of derivatives on the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is possible to refuse the excise duty in full. In other words, our derivatives can be cheaper when they go to Kosovo and Metohija and we can part of the surplus produced by the Panchevo Refinery and Novi Sad to place on this market under competitive conditions. Therefore, excise duty would be paid, but, with proof that oil, i.e. that derivatives were paid and sent to Kosovo and Metohija territory, then whoever executed that traffic would have gotten back excise duty in the form of a refaction, as you now have a refaction of one-third of the diesel price in agricultural producers. As for the release from excise duty, and this law provides for, we are preparing for the opening of free customs stores at Belgrade Airport. And in the amendments and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, so we will also particularly treat so-called Fre-shops that can be opened at Belgrade International Airport. This gives us the possibility to release excise duties on goods sold in free customs shops at airfields, which is Belgrade Airport, where passport and customs controls are organised, so that we can control this traffic. Also, as regards oil derivatives, a new excise duty is introduced on other oil derivatives derived from a fraction of naphtha having a distillation range of up to 380 degrees. In practice, it has been shown that there is an abuse in imports of certain petroleum distillates, which are so-called. diluents and retinators used in certain industries, in the rubber industry and in some others. It has been observed that there are significantly higher imports of these products and that some of these derivatives are then mixed with oil and, without paying the excise, significant profits can be made in smuggling. In this way, we give the possibility for the Ministry of Energy, together with the Ministry of Finance, to prescribe which distillers will be subject to excise duty in the future, but if these distillates are used for production purposes, of course, with appropriate evidence, the full amount will be refaction, i.e. the refund of excise duty. In other words, the industry that uses these distillates for its own purposes, therefore, as raw materials or as a means of work, will be able to recover the total excise duty it pays on these imports and prevent the abuses that exist today and with which the Ministry of Energy could not be handled otherwise. You know it was those attacks on the members of their commission that determine who could and who couldn't import. This is the most elegant way: excise duty will be introduced, and if used for industrial purposes, it will be returned, and if someone intends to abuse it, this way it will be economically demotive and prevented. Finally, we have another change in the Excise Act. Hence, tobacco products introduce the concept of minimum excise duty, thus protecting our market from cheap and non-quality tobacco products, and beyond that also the health of tobacco consumers. This concept is present in an increasing number of European Union countries, and it implies that if excise duty is calculated on tobacco processing, which is found in the law less than minimum excise duty, then a minimum excise duty is paid. The minimum excise duty is determined by this law at 70% of the total excise duty established for the category of cigarettes with the most popular price, and the most popular price is the retail price of those cigarettes where the largest sales volume is achieved in the last half-year. Of course, we predict that a special sublegal act prescribes the way and procedure of setting the most popular price. In this way, domestic producers and all those operating today on our market will be fully protected, but it will prevent the entry of dumped prices and some non-quality tobacco from abroad. Otherwise, I can say that in the first five months of this year, excise duty on domestic tobacco products has increased 85%, which means that DIN and DIV privatisation has produced results, as foreign brands are now being produced in Serbia. By doing so, the excise duty on domestic cigarettes is 85% higher, and on the other hand, the import of cigarettes has been reduced by 30%. The process shows that Serbia should focus on attracting investors to produce foreign brands further in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of minimum and necessary amendments to the law and I hope that, given the impact of this law on improving citizens' standards, you will all support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16036	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party, Mr Zoran Krasic. Another announcement: DSS's authorised representative is Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16037	As we have announced during our last visit to this assembly on this agenda, the need to change, of course, is the time to re-change the new concept of the Excise Law. Let me remind you, in 2004, three times this law was amended. We then made some remarks and, according to what is now proposed, some remarks were generally taken into account, but were not fully implemented and I will criticise, first of all, this inconsistencies in the excise policy. I must begin by pointing out that, you see, for yourself, the reasoning of this bill and what the government's representative for this agenda point in the introduction has pointed out is significantly different from the government's campaign that has been going on for the past two months, and the retail price of an oil derivative has been at stake. Since that reason is off, we're not going back to the retail price of oil. The government knows how to handle it. I will comment on these three reasons why the government has decided to amend the Excise Act. The first reason is that the price of crude oil on the market varies. I think it's about $50 a barrel of light oil now, and that used to be 20 and some dollars and even lower than that. I'm sure it affects the factory or the processing price. If excises, taxes, and everything else is determined in some percentage, it has some logic and gives some figure that affects the retail price. I have to say that this range and this situation when moving on the market dictates the retail price of the government should be resolved by some other means. First of all, it's a policy price. You said here that this is a step towards some flexible excise policy. I don't think that excise policy should be flexible, for the simple reason that it must have security, it must have a guarantee to anyone who enters a particular business, that he knows in advance what size these are, what its obligations are. But you're justifying a flexible policy by saying -- we're going to change a member of the Law by which the government will determine the amount of excise duty, of course, in the event of a change in the price of crude oil, and those changes affecting the country's macroeconomic policy. There are now two uncertain factors: the price change on the market, its impact on macroeconomic policy, the government's finding that 20% is down or down, and then the government gets the right to change everything we've decided here on excise amounts. We must not give such authority to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If we were to give such authority to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, however much it says here that this is an exception, then, practically, we should only bring one member and we should say – the government of the Republic of Serbia is authorised to determine the amount of excise duty for, so that we can only list excise products and end the story. Then she would really have one flexible excise policy, be free, away from the Assembly, away from everything. I'm not going to comment on a specific member of my complaint, we have submitted an amendment, so we're going to include some mathematics in the explanation of this attitude why this concept of flexible excise policy cannot be accepted. We must not accept it, for the Constitution does not give us that authority. Very simple and simple. Secondly, you've brought in a new excise for something new, not gasoline, not diesel, but something new. It's some derivatives. I must warn you of only one thing: the essence of the problem that made you intervene with this new excise of, I think, 32 dinars, is not what the minister said; the essence is in the monopoly that was formed in our Petrochemy, our oil refinery in Pancheva. There are only two buyers who buy oil and they trade oil. They allow someone to mix fuel, and as an excuse they use a sentence – they need this oil for bitumen diluents, and not to speak further, it's a whole scale of these products that they can't do without some fraction of primary gasoline. That's what this is about. The monopoly is in the refinery and the monopoly is on a commission that exists at the Ministry of Energy. Then you have a situation where people who want to do some work can't get consent to import, but refer them to the refinery. When they come to the refinery, they say – no, please, we give all the quantities to these two strategic partners. I'm absolutely sure someone unconsciously encourages a monopoly. I don't want to comment, there are other derivatives and other fractions that are also entering this story. We can't make monopolies. Monopoly was developed by the Oil Product Transport Regulation. That monopoly is supposed to come out somehow. Now's your perfect opportunity. You have foreign investors interested in privatisation, you have a large number of investors from abroad who have made a significant number of gas stations. And that's where you go with some conditioning. Break the monopolies. I'm sure someone cheated on the government about this. It's going to seem a little strange to you, the monopoly that was formed there created one story with the government, a story that all those who are allowed to import primary gasoline, oil, etc. they abuse it, use it for mixing, for illegal traffic, etc. That's not true. Look at the NIS monopoly. Make a list of who buys the oil, who buys these other things, and who won't buy the mule when the mule has more than it needs. There's a solution. Secondly, 32 dinar excise on these derivatives, these fractions, is inappropriately high compared to gasoline and diesel. You saw that we submitted one amendment. If the government says we need to lower the retail price of an oil derivative at our pumps, then reduce the fixed amount of excise duty for gasoline and diesel. Go back to what was a year ago. It is a reduction, not a government taking the authority that when those certain circumstances occur, and it can always represent that they have taken place, then the government runs an excise policy without the National Assembly. I want to return you to what is constitutionality and legality, because if your concept of flexible excise policy were accepted, then, literally, the Excise Act would have three members: the first member – this law prescribes excise duty on these and those products; the second member – the Government is empowered to determine the amount of excise duty; the third member – this law takes effect on the eighth day of adoption. Neither the government has that authority nor we have the right to hand it over to the government. We don't, like we don't have a tax right to hand over to the government to regulate it all on its own. I'm moving within the first reason you said there was a problem with this. Furthermore, I haven't seen that amendment, but I understand what you mean when you said refaction when it comes to the transport of derivatives to Kosovo and Metohija. You said it existed with us when it comes to oil, but it concerns agricultural producers. Keep him at that level. In all our territory, in the case of agricultural producers, maintain your refaction. But if you use 1244 as an excuse to say that everything that goes towards Kosovo and Metohija gets refaction, and it's not for agricultural production, then it's export. There's no third option. So either it's export or it's agricultural production, the third one doesn't exist. Kosovo and Metohija cannot be an exception in this regard, when it comes to this regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16038	Mr. Krasic, are you using another 10 minutes? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16039	So if we want to keep principled refaction when it comes to agricultural producers, all the oil used for agricultural production, to accept and what you said -- registered agricultural producers, you push that concept, we warned you, now I don't want to go back to it, let it go as you imagined, but then keep that principle on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. It can't be such an exception, because you know we had a roadblock, not to remind you, last year in September or October. Don't do anything again. I know that the interest of the Republic of Serbia is that only our products are sold in Kosovo and Metohija. That's normal. I guess that's what everyone in this assembly is asking the government to do, but if that's what you want to do, then implement it in another way, so it doesn't turn out to be export. The way you wrote it, though I didn't see it, but as you explained it, it turns out it's export and refaction based on exports. That can't be the reason. Next, you were talking about some new Free Shop concept. Don't do that. All the governments that worked with the variants of fri-shops, whether it was road, rail, airport, and so there were exceptions around the airport, not to go back to great history, were institutions, places where paper was washed and goods entered the country uncontrollably. At all international airports there are these fri-shops, but it's not as much traffic as it used to be 20 or 10 years ago. Today, the market is so liberalized that you can buy every product sold in the free shop at one of our stores. You already have foreign producers with us. You have, say, foreign cigarette manufacturers, at least two in our country, and most of all their glue products are sold on free shops. Then I don't see what the point is, but there's more danger than possible abuse and every exception has a natural tendency to become a rule. What happened on Horgos? One little house, a free shop, something there, and when you look at their traffic, I don't want to tell you what's been going on. That's what's going to happen to you, because you can't stop it. They'd rather find accomplices to this dirty work than you'd be providing quality control, inspection, etc. Then they'll call you and it'll hurt your head again. Furthermore, we have submitted one amendment concerning, as you said, the minimum amount of excise duties. I don't want to explain it, but I just want to draw your attention to Article 12. It's a bill of law. You know, once the indexation was done for three months, so last year we changed it to six months and then there was a three-month vacuum. Now that three months you want to return practically to nine months, because what was supposed to be done for the period October, November and December, when it was the price and the game of retail prices, then you decided we wouldn't do the indexation, so there was a new law and there was a vacuum. Now you want to legalize it this way. I think it's a bad solution, especially in combination with that member of the government asking for the right to run an excise policy when what I said happened earlier, if it happens. I think you're going to enter even more instability on the market, because, practically, manufacturers and those involved in traffic don't know when to change excise, why to change excise and what to do with excise policy. All elements of the flexible, as you say, excise policies must be legal norms, and if the government is empowered to do something, then the exact conditions must be specified, the reasons when the government can use it. What do I mean? So the government's authority must be restrictively set up as a legal norm, because unless it's restrictively set, if it's too wide-ranging, it's self-will. When it comes to self-will or government disposition, then no one can control it, and then it's a matter of free judgment. When the government says it calls for that and that member, and the member says the government can decide, then you can't criticise it. Then the government can complain about its macroeconomic policy, have problems, and move within the limits of its authority, and then, elsewhere, there must be a problem. We're aware of the problem with oil derivatives prices. Fuel has a major impact on the prices of all products and has a direct impact on the rise in prices on small, cost of life and anything monitored in macroeconomic considerations in determining the economic positions of the state. But that policy, the price of oil, you have to run it in the government, with what is a legal norm, and as far as taxes and excises are concerned, not to touch it, to leave it in the law, to be the anchor of that policy, to be a restriction of your policy, and to use that range that you have left to iron and get a price at a level that is tolerable to citizens. This is very bad for you. You've been campaigning for two months, the retail price of fuel derivatives won't change until the moment the National Assembly adopts the Excise Act, etc. And you've tied everything to this session and this part of the agenda, and nothing depends on this part of the agenda. Everything depends on the government, absolutely everything. Fight the monopolies, don't be afraid if it goes in some width, because that width should allow competition. The inspection is in your hands and you can ensure that all of this is neat and that it works. Make sure someone doesn't create new monopolies for you by creating a state story in an area. If someone, let's say, in this third category of derivatives, created that story, then take the data on how much it costs when it's imported from abroad, so you see who imports from abroad, you see what difference appears in price and you'll see exactly the lobby that ends that deal with oil derivatives. A strong lobby, linked to members of the Commission at the Ministry of Energy, the oil industry of Serbia and those who have money and who are able to dictate conditions. Someone fooled you here. You in this way, whether consciously or unconsciously, and when I know you're working consciously, I'm criticizing you, I don't have that information right now, but I'm telling you that maybe you're unconsciously making a new monopoly and a new lobby. If that's your wish, then say it, and if that's not your wish, then you were wrong in the article that you prescribed these things concerning the third category of oil derivatives. You're wrong, because you're going to create a new monopoly, to preserve those who already have a monopoly. Think for yourself how it is possible that only two, possibly three companies, can buy and import oil. They buy from domestic production and have the exclusive right to import from abroad, and others when they do, they say – go to the oil industry of Serbia. They go to the oil industry of Serbia and tell them – we don't have enough for you. They report for imports, and they say - we cannot allow imports, because these are such large quantities that are not needed by our country. You see how to make a story. Everything's fine, and only someone's full and someone can't do their job. Take the companies that invested large funds to build some capacity for that part of production – they can't work. Why? There's a monopoly, there's a monopoly with others. If that's what the government was going to do, make a new monopoly, say so. If someone cheated on you, admit it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16040	Minister Dinkic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16041	Just a few clarifications to the previous exposure. As for fri-shops, we allow this law to be introduced only at Belgrade Airport, so only at international airports, and at this point it's just Belgrade. Maybe if there's another one in the future, and it's only restricted to international airports. You said yourself it wasn't big traffic. International standards say in fact that at airports you have to have frisbees and even some rules of the European Union. It's not a great possibility of abuse, especially since there's passport control. You know, when you travel abroad, you can't buy goods without excise duties and customs unless you have a boarding card and leave the country. It's really impossible to make abuses here. I know, back in the '90s, and especially at the Horgos border crossing and the others, there were a lot of abuses, so we only enter international airports, like other countries do. We have no intention of introducing the same thing at other border crossings. I think I understand the reason for your concern, but at international airports it doesn't stand, because there is, because of these boarding cards and passport controls, the possibility of controlling it and there's no abuse, and there's no traffic. Secondly, as far as your concerns about the government taking over from the Assembly of Action Policy, I would disagree for two reasons. First, here we suggest reducing excise duties, so not burdening citizens, but reducing excise duty, not collecting fuel prices, or going back to where it eventually went in the meantime, at some private pumps. Finally, as for these distillates you've been talking about, I really don't know about energy, and I accept your discussion very well. I also think we should break the monopolies, completely agree with you, and I think there are monopolies. That's why we decided by the end of July to publish tenders for the NIS Privatization Advisor and to start at the beginning of next year to privatise NIS, because not only are some things fat are wrong here. This is something we received as information from the Ministry of Energy. I don't know what you're being distilled for at 380 degrees, but I also heard that it's the oil that interferes, and that's where they're being abused, because it's not being paid for by the excise and then it's being put in with the derivatives to which it's being paid, and they can probably be big profits. Apparently, the Commission can't handle it, so they told us at the finance ministry. We accepted, and this is how we led ourselves to try to solve it this way. If we introduce the excise, it won't pay off, because we're going to even the levels of excises, and it's even bigger here for these distillates. Whoever's really using it for industrial purposes is going to get their money back, so it won't be a loss. He will prove that he used it in his production, that he did not interfere, but has evidence that it was his input in production and will be given a refund of excise duty. In this way, economically, we can, in our opinion, have the Ministry of Finance shut it down, although I agree that the monopoly that exists and holds NIS is not sustainable and should be broken and that the Government has exactly the same attitude as you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16042	The word has the mandated representative of the DSS MP Slavoljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16043	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, as the mandated representative of the DSS, it is my duty to say that we MPs of the DSS will come forward on this bill. Right at the beginning I'll say it's a good proposal and we'll, of course, support this and vote for it. For the general public, apart from what we heard in the response of Mr. Minister, as an attempt to respond to the criticism heard by the Serbian Radical Party, by Mr. Krasic, I would like to add something else, which is – in one part of the public, a huge panic has been raised, allegedly, that these amendments and additions to the Excise Act will burden liquid gas. I must say, once again, liquid gas will not be charged with excise tax. I would ask the finance ministry, precisely because of such possible public reactions, to come up with one plan, where liquid gas will prove to be the energy the government of the Republic of Serbia is stimulating. I think it is very important, because the minister himself spoke on the Finance Committee that spending in Serbia in the last year, since the excise duty on liquid gas was lifted, has increased about five times. Many households, many businessmen opt for liquid gas as a primary energy, but with one general, long-term view of the government, I think those people who invest in plants or in heating instruments in their households should, in some ways, be calm in order to know that these are real investments. It is the obligation of the Republic Government and the Minister of Resorship, not only in the area of finance but also in energy, to clearly and loudly tell the people what they should do. That is why panic occurred, and it is good that the amendments submitted by one of the MPs, whose liquid gas would be charged with excise duty, were withdrawn on the Finance Committee. Once again, I'm going to remind you of what's important to this law. We have several essential parts in these changes and additions. The first part is the harmonisation of excise policy when it comes to tobacco products. This is where we introduce changes that will burden the worst tobacco, which should simply be eliminated from consumption. We all know what kind of evil tobacco is, but it seems to me that with this kind of excise policy we can contribute at least a little bit to the fact that those who already have to smoke at least smoke a little more high-quality tobacco. Then the excise policy also prevents manipulations that have, I suppose, occurred by some derivatives mixing with gasoline. And, in some ways, users are protected, and we're all driving cars, and it's good to know what we're pouring, not that some of these manipulations produce extraprofits because some oil derivatives weren't burdened with excises. Then, it allows the Republic Government, according to world market prices, to knock down the excise duty, which will allow for a more stable price of oil derivatives, i.e. gas and elevators at our pumps. This is very important for macroeconomic stability. The final result or effect of these changes and additions will be several fri-shops at Belgrade's airport. It's a good law, which the DSS will support. I don't even expect the representatives of the opposition parties to have anything other than mere demagogy to say about these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16044	Thank you. National MP Jovan Todorovic, an authorised SPS representative, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16045	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I would like to inform you that the MPs of our group will vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Excise Act. There are several reasons why we think it's important that we define ourselves to vote in favour of this law. First of all, what Mr. Minister was talking about, but also a few more reasons. First of all, I think it's extremely important to stabilise the supply of our gas and oil market. You've seen big lines in the pumps these days, shortages, especially diesel-fuels. All this is due to one expectation of what will happen in this congregation and whether or not the proposed law on the modification of excise duties will be adopted. As you know, this law came in the process at the end of March of the month, and it seems to me that today is the time for us to adopt this law and allow for a stable supply of gasoline and petroleum products. I would probably agree with those who think that this law could be taken over by the government by some authority or by some rights that do not arise from its role. But that's only true in case we have one stable situation in the world's oil and oil products market. In conditions where these prices change, regardless of our economic policy, I think it makes sense that the Government is empowered to make appropriate adjustments, according to these changes in the world market, with the fact that here and this law the Government is limited to the extent that excise duty may be corrected in relation to the price change on the world market. It was said to be a maximum of 20%, and when it comes to increasing excise duties, as well as when it comes to reducing excise duties. It seems to me that at this point, the most important thing is to ensure that the market is supplied and that at least at this point, there is no price rise. If I understand Mr. Minister well and this proposal, at least in the next few months there will be no increase in the price of gasoline and petroleum products, which is perhaps, at this point, the most important. It is also important that the price of oil and oil derivatives policy has an exceptional impact on the overall rise in prices. If, at this point, there was an increase in the prices of oil derivatives and gasoline, then it would certainly have a negative impact on input inputs in production and on that story relating to production growth, both in industry and in other areas. We should not forget about farmers, who would suffer significant damage to the cost of their production by increasing prices. When it comes to tobacco, we have a newspaper here that can give good results. If I understood until the end the explanation of the amendment to the Excise Act, I realized that the fact that at this moment there will be no increase in the price of gasoline, oil, or diesel-fuels will be submitted by smokers, i.e. those who are on this market tobacco, cigarettes, cigarillos, smoking tobacco, etc. For those cigarettes which, above all, originate from imports. Although I am a smoker myself, that fact doesn't concern me very much, because I am convinced that we will really take economic policy measures, and I understand these measures, among other things, and as measures of extra-tariff policy and the protection of domestic producers to destimulate imports of tobacco and cigarettes, especially when it comes to those less-quality cigarettes compared to what is produced in our domestic tobacco industry, whoever owns that tobacco industry. So, in my opinion, the state needs to stimulate the production of domestic tobacco. This will reflect, in my opinion, the positive tobacco producers, farmers, who will produce tobacco, that tobacco industry Vranje or Nis, or our domestic producers, make cigarettes, as a rule, C categories, and thus enable us to have greater employment and a better economic situation in the area. At the same time, by preventing imports, or destimulating imports, we will preserve the significant reserves of foreign funds used to import these cigarettes. If I didn't talk about the aspect of health, you know that these days was a day of protection from smokers or against smokers, it's a element that's also important, because sometimes it seems like what's abroad and what's better from imports than ours, even when it's tobacco. Here I would ask the question: on the basis of which the projection was carried out that we will, based on increased excise duties from cigarettes, tobacco, cigarillos, etc. the revenue of four billion in the budget increased compared to 2004. I haven't been able to perform that calculation, but I want to believe that we're really going to have increased excise income, applying this method so-called. minimum excise duty. If I understand the whole problem, or the way the excise duty will be calculated, then that would be the following: we have a category of cigarettes C, that category includes domestic cigarettes, such as "Classik", "Best" etc. At the retail price of these cigarettes, we have about six dinars, circled by saying the participation of excises. If you have cigarettes on the market from imports that are somewhat cheaper and in which a four dinar excise duty is contained in the retail price, then you will have the following bill: 80% compared to six dinars, how much is the share of excise duties in domestic cigarettes – 4.80 dinars. If there are four dinar excises involved in foreign cigarettes, then we will be able to raise those four dinars to 4.80 dinars. When we apply the VAT to that, we'll have one dollar or something more expensive cigarettes that come from imports that belong to this so-called. C class. If that's the point, then I'm totally okay with that so-called. The most popular price method shows that what is objectively the same is worth in the same way and to the same extent burdened on the domestic market, and that, however, it is in some way an advantage to domestic cigarette manufacturers and domestic tobacco producers. I don't see anything going on here. I don't think we could achieve any negative effect, except for that reserve that the government shouldn't really decide everything, etc. But it turns out that sometimes the government also needs to be given some powers, which are not very original, just because we can react quickly and efficiently to market disturbances, which, especially in this category of oil and oil derivatives, are present. I come almost daily from Loznica, many of us travel and you see that the real problem is how to fill the tank with diesel or gasoline, especially diesel. If there is no price increase, then why would we now dispute the government's right to coordinate up to 20% in terms of the level of excise duty that is present? Above that, it will have to demand changes to the law, or consent of the National Assembly, to make such changes to the law and to do so. Until the world market for petroleum products is stabilised, these provisions can remain, and when they are stabilised, there will be no undue need for the Government to require the National Assembly to have those powers. All in all, I think that this is an acceptable law and that it needs to be voted on, above all, to enable businesses and citizens to provide regular and high quality oil products, i.e. gasoline and diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16046	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4) of the Treaty, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia, the SRS, G17 plus and the DSS. I give my word, from the list of registered speakers, Dr. Radoslav Jovic. Let the People's Messenger Miljko Čevrovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law that regulates the matter of living standards, citizens' standards in everyday life. Finally, we need to pay more attention to just such solutions, because the transition period is usually difficult and the poorest categories of the population bear it. I think the reasons that led the government to present such a law in the National Assembly are valid, correct and that these amendments of the Law should be supported in general. It is particularly important that this part of which is given, in practice, the possibility for the Government to react flexiblely in situations where there are significant disturbances in the market, because it is known to all of us from everyday life, and to us who do not deal with the economy, that any shift in prices in energy has an important impact on the shift in prices in everything else and affects the inflationary movement in the country. What I wanted to draw attention to, and one of my fellow Members of the People's Parliaments had previously spoken about it, is exactly the change that is provided for in Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Excise Act. In addition to point 1) and 2) it is envisaged to add a point 3 in which it says – other oil derivatives derived from a fraction of naphtha having a distillation range of up to 380 degrees Celsius. We heard from Mr. Minister the reasons why this point was inserted, therefore, to prevent malversion and what we call the gray economy. But I did ask for technologists and chemists, people who know this matter, and they made it clear to me that something we call liquid oil gas, or a mixture of propan butane can be classified under this point. So, from the point of view of chemistry and technology, this can be classified under point 3), and we know that last year, on the government's proposal and on the very proposal of Mr. Minister, this assembly abolished the excise duty on liquid oil gas, which was relatively modest and was 1.90, and then three dinars per kilogram. It would be really scary if we now accepted that a 32-pound excise duty would be accepted for liquid oil gas, which would increase the price of that gas by about 76% in retail. This would indeed be a major blow and, in my opinion, the biggest blow would be to the poorest category of the population, which is such a government policy, which was clearly defined last year by abolishing the excise duty on liquid oil gas, recognised as a recommendation from the government in strategy and relation to energy. The very fact that in the last year, the consumption of liquid oil gas has increased from 30,000 tonnes to 150,000 tonnes suggests that Serbian citizens have recognised it as a government strategy when it comes to energy consumption. So, there are two very important arguments why liquid oil gas should be isolated from this category and clearly defined and recommended for citizens to freely continue investing in the installation of gas devices in their cars, buying boilers that can use liquid oil gas for heating, and not to list any other devices, gas furnaces, etc. which can also serve as energy in households. We have made an observation on the Committee that liquid oil gas must not be classified in this category as point 3) and we have come to the conclusion that in the list of oil products provided by the Ministry of Finance and Energy (so, that was the conclusion of the Committee, I repeat) will not stand for liquid oil gas, which is good. I think last year's proposal for a minister to lift the excise on liquid oil gas is very favourable, not only from this economic and social aspect that I'm talking about, but also from the ecological aspect. It is known that by burning liquid oil gas, we have significantly less damage to the environment, or atmosphere, than when it comes to other energies. So both the economic and social aspects and this environmental aspect require us as the National Assembly to clearly define ourselves and say that we support the government's policy that liquid oil gas, i.e. a mixture of propan-butane, continue to be used as alternative fuel and that this is one way to make it easier for Serbian citizens to survive next year, i.e. the years of transition and adaptation. With that in mind, I have also proposed an amendment, which unfortunately did not arrive in time in the Assembly, to add in point 3 a sentence which would clearly read that in the provision of point 3) the liquid oil gas is excluded. But given the clear view of the Committee, and beyond that and the clear agreement of the finance minister, that liquid oil gas will not enter this list, we can freely order citizens who have so far used it as an alternative source of energy to do so in the future. Finally, another argument in favour of this is the fact that the liquid oil gas in Europe is also mass-produced as energy and that there is a ratio between the price of liquid oil gas and gasoline around 1:2, and even more. I have information that currently in Italy the price of a liter of oil gas is about 50 euros and the price of gasoline is 1.2 euros. So, I just wanted to underline the importance of this so that the government would make a clear statement about liquid oil gas, to support the government's policy and to abolish the excise duty on this energy source.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16048	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrović has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Savo Urošević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16049	Dear People's MPs, since 2001, when the Excise Act was passed, this is the eighth amendment to the Excise Act. Given the changes and changes, it is high time for the government and the finance minister to propose a new excise law, as all these changes and additions should be monitored for the past five years. The minister presented three reasons here, explaining further this proposal on amendments to the Excise Act: variation, i.e. an increase in the price of oil on the world market; another reason is to speed up the export of oil derivatives; third, a problem that arises in the use of so-called diluters and retinators; and, in tobacco products, the concept of minimum excise duty. The previous speakers from the SRS group also cited reasons why it cannot be accepted for the government to be authorised to determine the level of excise duties in oil and oil derivatives, plus minus 20%. Only in exceptional situations can the government obtain some authority from the Assembly, when circumstances are such, to prevent or resolve an alarming shortage by emergency procedure, with the Assembly then taking over on a proposal from the Government of Resolution. However, we are witnessing that over two months, the problem of oil derivatives in Serbia arises, due to the conflict between the secret and the public between refineries and oil traffickers, both public enterprises within Serbia and private traffickers. The Ministry of Energy has not passed the exam for the last two months, and the government has not passed the exam, because we are witnessing a major shortage of diesel fuels in Serbia. Whether the energy minister and finance minister know this, they should know, because more than 20 days in many pumps across Serbia there are no diesel fuels, and that nothing concrete is done to achieve orderly oil supply, if we now know that the season of agricultural work is and that there are no elevators on many pumps, without talking about others using diesel as a means of transporting goods in traffic. With what is now proposed by the government, although it is said here by some members of the ruling group that the opposition has nothing to object to this proposal to amend and supplement the Excise Act, with these 13 members, there is reason to discuss all these members, and given the amendments tabled by the SRS parliamentary group. In addition to allegations by ministers and certain MPs that the refineries have a monopoly in Serbia and that they have somehow led to such a situation, this is justice with what will happen to NIS and refineries to act quickly, i.e. to use this as an additional reason to go to privatisation. And if the privatisation takes place as it has been implemented in Serbia so far, then we will be left without refineries and without public companies dealing with oil traffic, but we will be in a bigger crisis than we are today, at this point. We see and know what has been happening for the last 15 years in many areas of life and work in Serbia; and those who have appeared as oil traffickers, gas station owners and who have come to the capital and the construction of gas stations and now with the association they have formed are trying to dictate conditions in the transport of oil and oil products, honor of exceptions, as well as in many other areas, these have often been, from this part of the reasoning of the proposal of this law, from the field of the gray economy or the criminal economy. The question arises whether it is possible after all these years, if those who came to power on 5 October 2000 legally enforce laws in the state of Serbia, that there is still a gray economy in oil and oil derivatives? Is it possible that the tanks of the trucks, the ones that take the railroads or the oil that comes by the pipeline, could be the object of the gray economy? As a man, I can still accept the existence of a small part of the gray economy, because it's the subject of this law, the traffic of tobacco, that someone can still smuggle tobacco, that they can carry across the border crossings into bags, that customs can't catch it, that they can control it. I can't accept that there's still oil traffic through the gray economy and that the state doesn't have instruments for all this time, and it still doesn't seem to be, to prevent an absolutely gray economy in oil and oil derivatives. When it comes to amending this Excise Act and all that has been said by the finance minister, therefore, since the adoption of the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget, and especially lately, that the budget (this is what we heard today) is in fact in plus, and that the budget rebalance has been promised by the end of March 2005, for many reasons, and a special reason was the Law on the return of funds to municipalities throughout Serbia, and that the deadlines for the 2004 budget implementation report have expired, it would be good for the government to go to the National Assembly with a report on the implementation of the 2004 budget and the budget rebalance for 2005. Accordingly, it is also necessary to review all the laws concerning the obligations of citizens in filling that budget, namely the review of the Excise Act as a whole, not to bring down this part which is now necessary and how it is proposed here. In this regard, I expect, as a folk MP, that the government will propose a 2004 report and budget rebalancing for 2005 for the first extraordinary session. Then we will be able to look at all the parameters and indicators related to the burdens or obligations of citizens and businesses, and based on excises and so on. VAT and all other obligations that pressure citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16050	The People's Messenger Sava Urosevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16051	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are two important reasons, in my opinion, for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act. Without wanting to rank, one reason is to maintain macroeconomic stability, and the other is to introduce order into certain segments of our market, i.e. our economy. If we're talking about macroeconomic stability, I'd like to explain a little bit about the relationship between macroeconomic stability and the change of the excise law. It is known that the price of oil derivatives is very often changed on the market, and very often it is due to the various political earthquakes that occur in the world, and the impact of the price of derivatives on the prices of all products produced in our country is high. At the moment, according to the Regulation on the harmonisation of the price of oil with prices of oil on the world market, there are conditions for changing upstream, i.e. for increasing the price of oil derivatives, which would have a major impact on the price of all products, and thus on the increase in inflation. The government is given the opportunity to prevent such a phenomenon by reducing its share in the price of oil derivatives. So, the possibility is opened to keep the price of oil derivatives on the existing level, which is extremely good and is enabled by it, as the minister said, which is the revenue side in the budget for the first five months higher than it was projected. I would also talk a little bit about which reasons, in my opinion, are for such a single phenomenon, which is the introduction of a VAT, which in the best possible way justified its purpose. Thanks to the transition from sales tax, as a form of consumption tax to VAT, the revenue side in the budget has increased compared to the one planned for 800 million. If we know that around 60% of the revenue side in the budget is income from consumption taxes, then it is quite clear that this is a positive impact of VAT and another confirmation of the proper policy of this government and the finance ministry, which has embarked on a brave step to introduce VAT, which several previous governments have failed to do. We know that, from the time of the SPS, VAT laws have been passed, but no previous government has given in to this kind of thing. This proves the government's readiness. I am a man who deals with the business and I can convey both my opinion and the opinion of my colleagues, my business partners, who, despite the legitimate fear of VAT, have been completely satisfied with how it works after five months of applying this law. I'd go back to one detail of the VAT Act, which says it's the deadline for VAT returns, which most economic operators were afraid of, 45 days, and we have a situation that today VAT returns in 20 days. I can say here that my company's overpaid VAT has been paid back in 20 days, which is extremely favourable and the state at the moment belongs to the best buyers of most companies, because it has the shortest payment deadline, so to speak, because VAT returns faster than the deadlines for delayed payment on which goods are given. In addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, I would like to say a few more words about other reasons for introducing VAT. I'd throw the weight at the minimum price of tobacco excise. Since the revenue side in the excise reduction budget will be slightly reduced, the change in excise policy in tobacco will partially compensate for the deficit on the revenue side. I think the right way to introduce a minimum excise duty through excise duty on the most popular or most sold cigarettes, because, in addition to filling the deficit in the budget, we have one side that benefits the health of Serbian citizens – the imports of the cheapest kind of cigarettes are destimulated. Many positives have told my predecessors about this amendment and the additions to the Law, so I would finally say that there is a good law before us and that the G17 Group of MPs will support it all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16052	The Messenger of the people is Sreto Peric, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Istvan Takac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16053	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a feeling that if the President of the Assembly put any law on the agenda, even if such a House of Legislatives is obliged to submit its report on the work of the Government, that a number of MPs, primarily representatives of the ruling majority, would come out and say that the law is good. I want to talk about this law in a completely different way. The minister said in explaining this law he wanted to highlight three of his segments. At two I wouldn't go in at all, I wouldn't judge them, and one of these segments I'd look at specifically. The fact that these are the ninth amendments to the Excise Act, and the basic law was passed in 2001, suggests that a single law should be considered and adopted in this area. The most qualitative excise law would certainly be if we looked at the stenograms from the held sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia when this law was on the agenda as basic, and later on with changes and additions, and all those remarks and suggestions that the SRS MPs pointed out. If this were to be accepted and incorporated into such a law, it would surely be of quality and would guarantee a decades - long application to a good degree. You will see, and only the Ministry of Finance through the press announces certain changes regarding the taxation of some groups of goods, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party at the last session of the National Assembly, where the law was on the agenda. One MP said this law can only be criticised if a man wants to demagogue to tell a story, however, it is not true. The SRS parliamentary group wants to point out that we too are in favour of preserving the macroeconomic situation, i.e. the country's climate, and that it is a good thing that the government was thinking of not increasing the price of oil and oil derivatives in a certain way. On the other hand, the question arises whether it is the government whose National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should delegate the authority to decide. It is said here that it will reduce excise duties up to 20 percent, in the event of price disturbances in the world market for oil and oil products, i.e. if the price of oil and oil derivatives falls, it can return that price to the basic level, i.e. to the level that was valid before the bill came before us to the National Assembly. The question arises that there is no abuse, we are not going to say that it will come to this consciously, but not to create such a situation by those involved in importing, and by oil and oil derivatives, that the government, in order to preserve the standard of citizens and to manage to sell oil and oil products, would not be able to shoot down, or by reducing the oil excise duty, only to, in that case, make certain traffickers or perhaps oil importers profit. We don't mind; on the contrary, we think it's good to keep this price. If there was a possibility, and the minister tells us that the budgeting of this year is going well enough, that the price of oil and reduction, that is, to reduce excise duties, and on some products to reduce sales taxes, we would not mind. But in that case, we could not, as the National Assembly, or MPs, transfer that authority to the government. It might be possible to establish a mechanism and say that if oil is collected on the world market at a certain percentage, it is a possibility for the government, but to describe exactly what conditions the government can intervene to avoid changing the price of oil. The minister promised, when the 2005 budget was adopted in November last year, that an objective criteria would be made as far as March 31st, which would transfer funds towards local self-governments in another way to direct them. I know the case from the Municipality of Ljubovija, where I come from, that the funds that local self-government receives as transferred are significantly less than the funds that the municipal budget received when the sales tax was paid. The minister promised that part of his obligations would be completed by March 31st. It was not done, so I would ask him, since he is present here, if he has not already respected that deadline, not to be too long with it, and to go to the National Assembly as soon as possible with some other criteria for transferable funds towards local self-government. As for the implementation of the VAT, which my previous colleague did a little bit of praise, my knowledge is, since I'm moving and talking to people who showed me confidence and voted for me during the parliamentary elections, that the positive estimates, relating to VAT, but as far as the technique that followed it, I think that the IRS was a little rigorous. In all countries, there was a period of adjustment when VAT was introduced, where the technical details and elements of the monitoring of such tax collection were monitored for at least six or seven months and indicated to the taxpayers in which to apply it more correctly and to come as little as possible in conflict with what was regulated by the VAT Act. It happens that due to small technical failures, taxpayers are punished with very high fines, which is certainly not in line with the standard we now have in Serbia. In explaining this law, the minister said the government wants to be a little more flexible in the field of excise policy. The term excise policy, i.e. oil excise duty, oil derivatives, cigarettes and everything else covered by excise duties, is a category of fiscal policy. In fiscal policy, there is little flexibility and therefore Serbian Radical Party MPs are in favour of preserving this price of oil and oil derivatives, especially to stabilise the market by providing oil and oil derivatives, but we are not in a position to unreservedly give government authority, without any further criteria that we would establish in which cases and conditions the Government can intervene to maintain these prices and, above all, preserve the supply of the market to those products.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16054	The word of the Messenger of the people is Takach Istran; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Stevica the Dejanite.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16055	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, the bill on amendments to the law before us is a good law against the population and the preservation of population standards. The G-17 Group of MPs will support this bill. As is known from Article 2 of the basic law, excise products are: oil, tobacco, alcoholic beverages and certain imported agricultural products and coffee; products presented under the Excise Act as a category of products and goods subject to special taxation. In this way, the state provides for a steady flow of funds into the budget, and on the other hand, ensures that the total costs of the state are paid regularly. The Republic's budget for this year envisions 82 billion dinars, or 21% of the total inflow into the Republic of Serbia's budget. As has already been established, the introduction of value added tax, which has been applied in the Republic of Serbia since 1 January 2005, has given us a positive inflow of funds and, therefore, excise products can be treated differently in the future. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Ministry of Finance of Foreign Creditors, and in particular the IMF, the London and Paris Club, provided special benefits to reduce the foreign debt of the state, and in part wrote off the debt or by directing their claim, by paying it off. The government continues to take measures to reduce public spending, especially measures to reduce material expenditure. Why does this need to be emphasized? I believe that by rerouting, i.e. by reducing the general debt of the state towards external creditors, it allows the daily inflow of funds to be directed towards improving the daily liquidity of the state, which means that monthly commitments to pensioners, health institutions, schools, police, etc. are regularly paid. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act provides for two basic amendments: the establishment of a minimum excise duty in tobacco processing and the second change is in the application of excise duty on oil derivatives. The minimum excise duty, as provided for by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act, is determined by a special proposal for a law based on prices of so-called prices. The most popular categories with the largest sales volume in the Republic of Serbia in the past half-year. This means, at the same time, that the excise duty in any case cannot be lower in the absolute amount of no category of products than minimum excise duty. The second change is in determining the application of excise duty to naphtha derivatives. In the event of an increase in the production prices of oil products due to rising prices of crude oil on the world market, the government of the Republic of Serbia will be authorised to temporarily reduce the amount of excise duty for which prices are increased, up to 20% of the amount. The draft law with these amendments provides that this additional intervention measure affects the stability of the prices of these products on the domestic market in this way. As a colleague pointed out earlier, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly during the examination of this law was particularly concerned with excise duties on liquid heating gas in the household, as well as motor fuel in the car and the like. It is particularly emphasized that this law does not foresee it, although the news of it has been made public. I believe that this bill represents, on the one hand, the harmonisation of domestic economic rules with European Union standards, and on the other hand, giving the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the competent ministry, the possibility of performing certain interventions in the price of oil derivatives in the event of rising prices of crude oil on the world market, which has a direct impact on the domestic market. That is why G17 plus supports this law and suggests that the other parliamentary parties support it in the voting day as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16056	The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16057	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as you heard in the previous presentation of several of our MPs, we have in the past, when debated last year about the Excise Law, announced that this excise law is not very good and that it is necessary to correct some of the amendments we have proposed. It is now seen that we were right then, which shows the inconsistencies of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, these amendments were not accepted, and now this is because they were proposed by the Serbian Radical Party. We don't think it's a good situation, so now we're talking about the same law again. In view of the government's argument of the reasons for the adoption of this law as one of the reasons, the price of crude oil is indicated, i.e. that the price of crude oil on the market varies. So, it's mentioned, what we just heard, a flexible excise policy. We, as the SRS, think that excise policy must be stable for the very safety of those who want to deal with it and who have an interest. So we can't accept this, because it's also said here that the government itself can determine the excise duty on these excise products, so it turns out that parliament is too high. Also, a new 32 dinar excise, Mr Krasic said nicely, about something new, and it's nice to explain, I'll just repeat, because of the public and you here, that it was done because of the monopolies, and we know that the monopolies are the refineries and the Commission in the Ministry of Energy. This is where the following situation arises: whoever wants to do it is referred to a refinery, where they, as usual and everything in this country, try to indicate that they can't do anything about it and that's how the monopoly is created. The monopolies created this story to possibly direct the government in some direction that suits them. Why did I mention a monopoly? For some more text. And here's the free shop again. However, it is said – only at airports, but still. So free shops don't have to be classic smuggling, they're for washing paper and, among other things, for smuggling, etc. So they're serving to wash the papers and to cut the state's paperwork for that excise, tax, etc. I believe there is no way to establish good control and that only the opening of free shops allows for the creation of new paper washing. I will set an example, as I come from Vrsac; there is a border crossing with Romania, where there are three or four barracks, on the Romanian side, free shops that have traffic as a little less factory. Except for the smugglers who work there and smuggle, who are also not negligible, are also washing factory papers, and especially Croatian ′′Ronhila GophmannA, which is the most represented there. We assume it's a D.S. Time deal, by the way. You remember the timely attempt to open a factory in Novi Sad. So I would suggest you explore such things, the theft policy of the DS from the past period and all the affairs that have destroyed us, from the sugar factory, from those cigarettes that we mentioned earlier, from the airport and the ficus of 70,000 dinars, from Arena, which is now current, the current mayor of Bogdanovic, who grabs his hand and hat everything he can in Belgrade, the cement factory. So we need to explore which factory today buys factories and which tycoons buy today. One example is that he bought all the shops of ′′Opće′′ from Slavija to Calemegdan and fired the workers, not taking goods from domestic producers, but only imports. The suggestion is, if you want to change the excise policy, to charge them with excise duties. That's where the excises should be changed. Thus, the question arises whether you are protecting thieves from the Democratic Party. You said, and I see they recognized each other in what I said, that you wouldn't monopoly. Well, they're holding a monopoly. On television, media images, all import-export jobs are done by their tycoons, their judges are protecting them, and some are recognized, so they come to hear a little bit better. They don't process cases that exist. The Democratic Party and their group have already destroyed such a fragile economy as it exists. There are criminals who took money and factories during the DOS, so now they buy factories in Serbia and fire workers. And, I repeat, are you protecting them and protecting perhaps their coalition partners, the well-known Serbian "businessman", and in fact the thieving of Bogoljub Karic. As we all know, Bogoljub Karic has taken money from the state, kidnapped it from ′′Mobtela′′ and not to give anything to the state. Two billion euros has been kidnapped and divided into families and singers, with the rest acting as an industrialist who has never produced anything. He pays the press, for example. "Time", and others, are also agreeing with the Democratic Party, its coalition partners in Vojvodina, and still buying some unfortunate members of the Assembly. Such a man walks free with Serbia and makes coalitions with the Democratic Party, laughs at the people in face and robs the state. The question arises – did he not start paying someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia? So I'm going to end up with an excise policy to help the state have more money for pensions, unemployed, social programs, help citizens, therefore, to live better. Help the economy to have stability and to know what awaits them during a long period of time, and stop the monopoly, the theft policy of DS, Bogoljub Karic and their fellow criminals and frauds and so on. tycoon; or you protect them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16058	The word has Mr. Vlahovic, a replica of Mr. Dedjanski's presentation, please. He says he recognized a man.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16059	I have to admit, you're very funny and too bad you talk shyly, and you don't talk louder, so we can hear you a little bit better. As for recognition, I'll remind you that I'm a member of the DS, and that you've been talking all along about what happened. The Thief's policy of the Democratic Party. As an authorised representative of the Democratic Party, I have the right to replication. First, I think your so-called. critics don't deserve any answer for this pay phone. I answered for a public listening and watching TV broadcast of this session of the National Assembly. I think it is high time that the chairman of the National Assembly and the president of the National Assembly responded to the words that are unproven, offensive, which relate to a single parliamentary group. We are never, nor will we use words – thieves, criminals, because this does not primarily correspond to parliamentary culture, and it is known that your party uses these words without any arguments, without any justification. You know that folk saying -- whoever's talking about it -- it's probably what he's doing. Therefore, I ask Mr. Chairman of the National Assembly, Mr. President, to respond every time serious insults are brought out, either at the expense of the parliamentary group, or at the expense of individuals in this assembly, because there is really no point in burdening the public with empty stories that are repeated from day to day. If you don't have anything else to offer the citizens of Serbia, if you don't have a clear political programme, if you don't have a clear economic programme, if you don't have people who can make it happen, then it's already time to stop those empty stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16060	I thank Mr Vlahovic, but I am sorry that these terms were introduced in 2001, 2002 and 2003 in this House and it is now difficult to correct, we will have to introduce a new rules of procedure and cut somewhere. Unfortunately, the terms have been accidentally introduced and they are difficult to erase, and we know who introduced them. Mr. Markovic, what did you want? Are you an authorised representative? Mr. Markovicu, who is a member of the Rules of Procedure injured? It's not one. No one was misread, Mr. Vlahovic reacted not to Mr. Dedjanski's statement, did not hurt him, but simply said that he should not speak in this way, so, please, no injured Rules of Procedure and Article 100. I'm really sorry. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16061	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. Unfortunately, we are often faced with similar suggestions, which changes excise policy. This time, the main reason for this law ahead of us is macroeconomic stability, inflation which is obviously a major problem for our economy. It seems to me that the argument is too strong, too unarranged, because inflation does not in any case decrease, it does not only bring down the prices of oil derivatives. Obviously, we have a shortage of diesel-fuels, above all, and there may be shortages of fuel and other types of fuel. This is, unfortunately, one short-term solution, completely unsettled, which does not guarantee that this problem we have with the world's oil price in the future will be solved. In this law, we have a few new solutions and amendments to the excise policy and, I say, what is most disturbing to the Serbian Radical Party, is that in one short-term, some regulations are passed, laws that do not systematically solve problems in our long-term economy. When it comes to macroeconomic policy, absolutely certainly, as I said, we will not significantly reduce inflation. In any case, we will not solve the problem of the external trade deficit, because production continues to fall and there is a decline in economic activity. It is necessary for the Government to come before us with a much more serious strategy of economic development so that we can expect more important and serious progress and improvement for each citizen of Serbia in the future. The problem is the solution by which the government itself determines when it will reduce the amount of excise duties by 20%. A serious government does not propose this, and unfortunately, more and more often in the bill's proposals, such solutions appear that are, in fact, the discretionary right of the government. With regard to the new excise duties, I think that the excise duty on derivatives up to 380 degrees Celsius during the refinement, the new 32 dinar excise is more important than we've had to do with the excise on motor gasoline, which was 27 dinars. I think this solution, too, is quite a non-serious solution by the government. If the Government does not have the power to place those who abuse the current law, with the help of inspection, police authorities, in law, producers (particularly, manufacturers of rubber products, paint producers and varnishes) in a very difficult situation, because the fact that 32 dinars will be burdened with supply material, the basic material used in production is important to affect their production, if we know that banking interest is quite large. I guess, in any case, the crafts that they have to count on significantly burden this production and we'll be able to expect a rise in the price of these products in the next period. Regarding cigarettes, the government boasted that the draft bill would manage to push some four million more dinars into the budget than it has had so far with a proposal for a previous solution. I would remind you that the minister and the government are praised for having a surplus in the budget after the introduction of the VAT and that it is quite abnormal, if there is a surplus in the budget, to continue to be burdened by Serbian citizens. Or at least the government had to come out with a proposal to get that money back to the taxpayers, to put less burden on them themselves, and also to produce production, and to make some hope and a sign that we will have a much more serious and consistent economic policy in the future. I would remind you that the minister himself said that the collection of excise cigarettes has increased by about 85%. Therefore, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I must say that we are very unhappy with all the solutions that go towards increasing the tax burden on citizens. These are the basic reasons why the SRS will not vote for this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16062	I thank Mr. Antic. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go. Get Natasa Jovanovic ready.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16063	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take advantage of the opportunity that the chairman has denied me for a moment, he has not given me the right to reply. I just wanted to ask the Democratic Party's representative if he read the newspaper a month ago when former Mayor Nova Sada Novakovic's brother was caught with a gun and money returning from an armed robbery. So much for honesty. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2004 alone, this law has been amended three times. If you had then adopted amendments to the SRS parliamentary club, you wouldn't have had to amend the law today, because I see that in these amendments and additions you're using exactly the amendments that we have then proposed. As a reason for this change, it is said that the price of crude oil varies. It was always the price of crude oil on the world market, and it was the state that was the regulator who kept the price of oil derivatives on the domestic market, by excised somewhere else, providing that equality. Therefore, the excise duty must be in this part, but it cannot only determine the price. Maybe this is even good intentions, even the road to hell is paved by good intentions. What I wanted to object to here, because some of the speakers were already talking about it, was mostly left at some sort of oral finding. Liquid oil gas, propan-butane is a derivative of oil, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples, the fractional distillation of oil is obtained, is also a derivative obtained by degasolinizing natural gas, where the propane and butane from the whole of the carbon-doctor-glucose, which belongs to natural gas and is isolated. You said there was a position taken on the board, that it was established, agreed, and the minister promised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is not written in this law tomorrow will not bind anyone. Therefore, I believe that liquid gas, if you've already released it from excise duty, must be introduced here in Article 3, it seems to me, by law, that it's been released from excise duty. By solving this excise problem, the government is trying to solve some other problems. We had a chance to watch recent refinery blockades, where the entire convoys blocked the entrances to the refineries and the market ran out of certain power plants, mostly without the Euro-elevator, and for a time and without the motor gasoline, until the government agreed with those who blocked the refinery, mostly it was an hour of each other, then the market was satisfied. So the problem is on the other side. The problem is also an orderly robbery, which is carried out in Serbia's Oil Industry. The problem is that someone allows (and when I say "someone", first of all I think about the government) the export of euro diesel at the time when it was not on the domestic market; when many pumps in Belgrade did not have euro diesel, thousands of tonnes of euro diesel were exported. The problem is also the import of Euro diesel at a time when it's on the market, when it's in refineries, when refineries don't know what to do with it. The basic reason for these transactions was commissions. The mafia has stabbed its claws deep into Serbia's oil industry and is sucking blood from the energy work. After all, in the oil industry there is a godfather's furniture, Hamovic, Lazarevic, as their directors, at least three directors in the oil industry are godfathers and allow each other, probably out of love for godmother, but it seems to me more and more out of love for money. As far as tobacco is concerned, we're talking tobacco, excises, besides, the state has always been through alcohol, through energy and tobacco, providing excises with assets, so it's substituting other segments of society. The problem is, we sold all our domestic tobacco factories to strangers. The problem is that the domestic tobacco factories don't have any, only if they finish Vela what's in Chačka, where the foundation stone was avenged two or three years ago, of course, as a capital investment, then we'll have that domestic tobacco factory. The problem is something else: foreigners who bought tobacco factories (but this is more of a problem for the Ministry of Agriculture and other ministries) brought polluted tobacco seeds and asked our producers to sow that tobacco. And now in Nis and the environment, in Prokuplje and the surrounding and the entire southern part of Serbia, where tobacco producers lived from that production, you have whole plots that even a few years won't be able to be used for anything. So if the government wants to run this country's policy, it's going to have to be a little bit different to those problems, because this is just the tip of the iceberg, the causes are much lower. At the scene, it was about VAT. I thought it was a value added tax, however, when those bankers came I realized that it was the name of the music group Pitic-Dinkic-Vlahovic, VAT.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16064	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16065	All that Mr. Momir Markovic, a respected fellow Serbian radical, is certainly also funny and true, but, as far as the proposed excise law is concerned, I, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, would return to a period of a year and more, when his exposé on the Government of Serbia programme was presented to the MPs by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, where it was absolutely clear, in March 2004, that it is necessary, therefore, to speak from that time to this day, to change the excise policy of the government. But it was not done in the way the Serbian Radical Party suggested, and this is one too late, but not a good reaction from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the overall present situation today, and in fact in recent months, when it comes to the traffic and sales of oil derivatives. Because, in addition to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia refused the SRS amendment that, for 2004 (and how it could be applied this year), an excise, and now we are now proposing 13 dinars for diesel and 16.76 for gasoline, and that this would be a stable excise policy for both last and last year, we are now coming up with a model that the Government of Serbia, as an executive body of government, resorts to in its way to regulate something that the market is simply unable to regulate. When it comes to all these root social and economic reforms that we are often told about and what Minister Dinkic was talking about today, of course, that every goal is to establish a modern, market economy and economy and to make it work in our country as well. Economic practice and various theoretical and empirical research have shown not only us, and in countries that are at some stage changing the social and economic structure, but everywhere in the world, that the market and its functioning and market as the primary regulator of all possible disturbances are one of the greatest achievements of human civilization. When the market is unable to regulate and when the government is to intervene, it is in exceptional situations, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia finds this one, but the opportunity to establish, I would say, a fluctuating excise duty, which it itself will prescribe without asking the National Assembly and changing that by the basic excise law, is not good. It is certainly evident that through the economic and social structure that we have and because of the raw material whose price is dictated on the world market, there must be some regulator, but we Serbian radicals cannot agree with this way and with this legislation on excise duties, where this right to take over the Republic Government and that, based on the way things move on the market, on the world market above all, which is reflected here and in us, it is changing and thus adapting its excise policy. State regulation, actively, is certainly necessary, although we are in favour of the existence of a market economy, but not in this way, and therefore we suggest to you through amendments, which we will talk about later. It is clear that a defined excise per litre of diesel and gasoline is the way in which the SRS proposes absolutely the possibility of not increasing the price of these products strategically important, not only for the transport of passengers, but it is a generator that affects the overall economy and other costs, as colleagues have spoken of. If it is about charging the budget and excise policy as a way to obtain basic income, besides other taxes, then the minister should now come out and say that there has been a budget surplus compared to the planned deficit. It is again one situation that affects the widest layer of people in our country, because taking from those who have many, and who are prone to evasion, or tax evasion, such as Bogoljub Karic and his like cheaters and so-called tycoons, is certainly something that every honest citizen of Serbia approves. When it comes to the creation of VAT surpluses on basic provisions of life, such as bread, milk and other products, flour, meat, which were not at the end, under pressure from the SRS, included in the former sales tax, then it is something that we cannot justify, because the obvious situation is because of the large number of poor citizens living below the minimum of existence, yes, as one headline in the newspaper defined it the other day – the average salary of swallows food. But the question is, how many people have an average salary? If we look from city to city, from Kragujevac, where there are 40,000 people (and that's an undefined number of unemployed), through Zemun, where 20,000 people don't work, and everyone from their city will bring out the data, we come up with an incredible 980,000 people who don't have a job. If that was the way to get to a stable dinar in the budget, then on this proposal of the excise law, we have great regrets because it is the introduction of instability, on the one hand, and it is not legal regulation. These are powers that can be manipulated under the regulation, one bad way of ruling, which certainly is not the manner of the Serbian Radical Party. Since there is an MP here, who says to himself that he is a spokeswoman, but has to be reminded of a little of the policy he himself had been conducting, and his colleague who was the finance minister, how difficult it was for citizens to live during that period and now the continuity of that policy continues in one part; it has been said that there is no clear idea, clear concept and programme. It is more than clear that the amendments of the SRS are aimed at achieving a stable excise policy, which, on the one hand, will protect consumers, or millions of people who use these products, and on the other hand to prevent the creation (which was spoken by Mr Zoran Krasic, our authorised representative) of a monopoly, which is also how it affects, i.e. the indicator of certain disturbances on that market, which we believe should act and that the market economy and economy are beginning to function in our country, but the overall economic and economic situation makes it impossible for us, and these government interventions are not good. And, with the change of the agency to the organisation in Article 5, we have Serbian radicals, in addition to that strong persuasion and by the former finance minister and Mr Dinkic, it is unclear how this sudden change occurred with so many praised agencies and their establishment, because we also had the Law on Tobacco and the Law on Agencys. What happened in the meantime? In Article 3. The proposal for a law relating to the new text of Article 10(4) in points (2) and (3), when it comes to tobacco, has been replaced by a percentage of 100 by a percentage of 80. This term is the most popular price′′, you know, for us it is not acceptable and it is not good that such a term exists at all, because the most acceptable price, for example, is for some thieves, such as Bogoljub Karić, 200,000-300,000 euros, because that is his monthly salary, and for an ordinary citizen, who today has no two, three euros to have in the household, it is a huge figure. Therefore, this termology is not good and should not stand in a legal project. This should also be changed nicely to say that it is the price of those cigarettes with the largest volume of traffic in the Republic of Serbia, which are the cheapest, which most people usually use. That's why we asked for a percentage of 100 to be replaced by a percentage of 80. But anyway, in this concept of the Excise Act and this new indexation of the amount of excise duties proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the Secretary-General, we see the possibility of new monopolies and certain speculations. Since this now expressed surplus of 20 billion dinars is present, primarily because of the value added tax, which is intensely charged, with a very restrictive policy run by Minister Dinkic over his tax officials, it is something that is the most burdensome of citizens and you cannot boast that our budget is full, and on the other hand that you know that you have not freed basic life supplies of value added tax. It did not even occur to you that they would be taxed at a special rate of 8%, because 18% of what people need for everyday life is a lot, and an excise policy that, through a fluctuating excise, the government of the Republic of Serbia is not good and therefore the SRS parliamentary group cannot support such a bill of excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16066	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before that, the word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16067	Here's to sum up what we heard in the discussion. Why are we now able to reduce excise duty, and why didn't we do it in 2004? It's true that we suggested at some similar time, I think that in May 2004, there was an increase in excise duties and there were approximately three dinars, as we are now planning to reduce, because then we found a deficit in the 45 billion dinar budget. Then, through the tightening of financial discipline, we managed to reduce the deficit in December 2004 to 22 billion and finally, in May, we have a slight surplus, so for the first five months of this year, 800 million dinars. Where did the surplus come from – so it was a question that was also asked here. There are two reasons: it is true that income from value added tax is significantly higher than the revenues from sales tax, but that was the purpose – that one part of the transaction that was in the gray economy would be introduced into legal traffic, and on the other hand, public consumption was reduced, because we achieved less expenditure in the first five months than we had in the regulatory quotas planned by four months. The question is, why is it going to surplus policy this year? So, maybe it can upset you people's MPs and citizens too, because, as things stand now, our projection is that by the end of the year we'll have a surplus in the budget of about three billion dinars, plus an additional 30 billion dinars of privatisation revenues, they'll be on the side and they won't need to cover the deficit. So a total of 33 billion dinars should be surplus this year. Why are we making it and why can't we spend it? For the simple reason we found a situation where we had a permanent growth in the external trade deficit, a far greater increase in imports than exports. One of the reasons for large imports of all these years is, firstly, insufficient quality domestic production which could cover domestic demand in full scope, and secondly, insufficient quality goods for larger exports. The policy of this government was this: on the one hand, the control of demand through a restrictive monetary and fiscal policy to reduce imports, which we succeeded, and on the other hand, to increase exports through restructuring and privatisation, which we also succeeded. I want to say that the latest data, and that's what statistics published today, say that exports in the first four months of this year are 51% higher than in the first four months of last year, and that's a really spectacular result, because the trend from the first quarter was similar – 51% after April. I must say that more and more exporters are increasing exports, and as one of the MPs said, it is also contributed by the rapid return of VAT, and we return to the exporters in 7-8 days, I mean those big exporters. Imports are lower by 6.4% in the first four months compared to the same period last year, so it is quite certain that this year we will have a far better external trade result, which is actually the main objective of economic policy this year. Of course we have problems on the other side. The problems, above all, are looking at inflation, and precisely because inflation is slightly larger than the projected one, we have to go with this restrictive fiscal policy and that is why we have to achieve a surplus. As far as the most popular price is concerned, it's a name that's taken over from other legislation, we didn't invent it, in fact, "the bridge of the popular story" is that name and we just copied it from other laws. I would like to say once again, because of the MPs who asked this question, it will never increase or introduce excise duty on liquid and oil gas, or on butane, because once you lift one excise, because of a certain policy, it is completely illogical for anyone to think that it is increasing. The suspension of excise duty on butane, i.e. liquid oil gas, or gas last year, was just done to increase the consumption of this ecologically clean fuel, which happened in the meantime. So I want to give those MPs who were asking questions about it another guarantee that there will be no excise on liquid oil gas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16068	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We've opened the discussion in detail, but I suggest we do it after an hour's break. The first will be an amendment to Article 1 submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and will be discussed. So, break to 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16069	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we move on to the first amendment, please determine the quorum. I understand we have a quorum to work with. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16070	Mr. Chairman, we have a little problem now. I'm sure this amendment could be accepted as a government official, but we don't have a government representative here right now. Article 1 The draft law refers to Article 8. The law. The government has proposed that words be thrown out in attitude 2 and paragraphs 3 and 4 be deleted. The Serbian Radical Party goes a little further and asks for an appropriate change to be made in the position of Article 8, with the 1st point being: "The basis for calculating the excise duty is determined on the basis of the quantity, according to the unit of the measure and the value of the product and", and then this text that you originally placed in the position of the 1st change you make. What makes us feel that this change is important? Article 8 determines what the excise is actually. It is also prescribed how it is determined. What is the basis for calculating the excise duty and the basis for calculating the excise duty depends on three parameters. It depends on, as you have seen here, quantities, units of measures and values of a particular product. If you did not accept this amendment a year ago, and we have repeated it for the third time, to draw attention to the Government that in the first position it should define what is the subject of that member, there is now a reason to accept it, so before what you are changing is in attitude 2, and what you are erasing in paragraphs 3 and 4, exactly what is basically the intervention that we are proposing, and about attitude 1. You've thrown out cigarettes, cigarillos, etc. in Section 2, and you've left nothing but coffee, and points 3 and 4 have been thrown out since they refer to some other excise products. So now there's a reason to accept this amendment, because basically, in point one, you'd have a definition of what the basis for calculating the excise duty is, regardless of what the subject matter of taxation is, whether it's cigarettes, oil derivatives, alcohol, etc. So I'm saying -- if by any chance a representative of the government were here, you'd probably realize that this is fully in function of what you've changed in Article 8, but this in a more complete way defines this whole matter, so in the future, if you're changing the Excise Act, you won't need to change what we're proposing, and what we'd probably have to adopt, because it's following something that's a fundamental thing when it comes to excise regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16071	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16072	I would ask the MPs to pay attention to this amendment. Mr. Arsic is not here, so I need to explain what this is about. Article 2 The draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act refers to Article 9 of the original text of the Law, which regulates the excise duty on oil products. The government proposes adding a new point 3 to point 1. These are other oil derivatives obtained from oil fractions with a distillation range of up to 380 degrees Celsius and are determined at 32 dinars per kilogram. That's something new. If the Government wants to run an excise policy at this time and to reduce those excise duties, without questioning the concept of excise policy, then it is much better to do what we have proposed, which is to change in point 1 in point 1), so that the amount of ′′27.5/1999 dinars is replaced by ′′23.15′′, and in point 2) the amount of ′′16.66′′ is replaced by ′′13.0′′ dinars. Practically, it's a return of the diesel-fuel excise and for gasoline to what was 7-8 months ago. So, returning the amount of excise duty when it comes to diesel fuel and gasoline to what used to be. If you accept that, then there is no need for a position 2, and he says, "The Minister in charge of finance affairs and the Minister in charge of mining and energy affairs publishes the list of oil derivatives listed in item 1 of point 3 of this article". There's no need for two ministers to publish that list. That list exists in our regulations and there is no need for the finance minister to engage in these professional matters. The list shall be applied when imports of oil derivatives are regulated. It is also regulated by a regulation that prescribes a way of importing oil, and there is no need for the finance minister to now be involved in this and for the two ministers to adopt a joint act, so whether it is a list or not to be called, when all this is regulated. If you want to run an excise policy, then reduce the amount of excise duties on gasoline, for oil and include in the price that you consider to be an acceptable retail price, which does not endanger the government's macroeconomic policy. This is how you advertise how all of this depends, and you do not lower excise duties, but in another member, which we will specifically talk about, you draw the right for yourself to make up to 20% corrections in the amount of excise duties. What you're up to is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, because everyone is obliged to pay taxes and excise taxes in accordance with the law and under the law, not in accordance with the government's regulation and according to the government's position. This is the fundamental objection to this concept of excise policy where what is the legislative jurisdiction moves into the hands of the Government. If you wish to remove these prices, accept this amendment. Then you won't need to apply what authority you think you belong to, so you can make some correction minus 20% of the existing amount. This is a completely different approach to excise policy compared to what the government imagined. The government has imagined -- let's make it a maximum, and then we'll play Santa Claus. It can't be like that. You better prescribe a smaller amount of excise duties, and then use the right you have under Article 17, and as regards indexation, where the value of the excise duty is not lost, it agrees with the rise in prices on the retail and market developments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16073	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16074	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the evidence again of the tax and the fiscal policy that this government is leading to slowly copying the amendments to the SRS and rewriting the bill's proposals, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law. When the latest amendments to the Excise Act were made, Mr. Minister simply disobeyed the opposition of Serbian Radical Party MPs, who warned in time about the consequences of such a policy being conducted. In fact, the policy began as long as the DOS was in power in 2003; then Minister Bozidar Djelic began such an excise policy, which was on the wrong footing in all possible estimates: in estimates of the value of the dollar, in estimates of the price of crude oil on the world market. Such a policy was continued by the government, i.e. Minister Mladjan Dinkic. As early as last year, we warned that it was not good to increase oil excise duties and oil derivatives before the Value Added Tax Act came into effect within two months. At the time, the minister claimed that due to the reduction in the number of derivatives under excise duty, excise duties on oil derivatives, such as motor gasoline and diesel fuel, must be increased. Then he forgot that diesel-fuel is one of the essential factors for any price and every product sold here. So it starts with agriculture, the transport part of the economy, well, in the end, and to retail. Now we are in a situation where the world oil market is causing disturbances in domestic oil supply and oil derivatives. No one else can be responsible for this, but this government, headed by a resolute minister who runs this policy. Now that the consequences and how visible are, the minister remembered, that is, this government so that they can acquire cheap political points from this situation by saying -- here, the government of the Republic of Serbia is working to reduce excise duties and oil derivatives themselves, forgetting that they are the only ones responsible for what oil and oil derivatives are now. We know about Mr. Mladjan Dinkic's habit, which he inherited from Bozidar Djelic, which is that every time he makes one tax relief, he has to make a tax burden on the other, regardless of what, at least according to the official statements of the Ministry and the Government, our budget is already in surplus, so he already has more resources than anticipated. Thus, point 3 of the proposed Article 2 adds a new part to which excise duty is charged, and point 3) reads - other oil derivatives derived from the oil fraction that have a distillation range of up to 380 degrees. I – Minister for Finance Affairs and Minister for Mining and Energy Affairs shall publish a list of oil derivatives referred to in point (3) of Article 1(3) of this Article. Now we remember very well that story when Mr. Minister claimed that he would release the excises of lye oil, oil and kerosene, and all these oil derivatives were from a fraction of distillation of up to 380 degrees. Now it's a bit of a cover-up, because it's going to be made public with some list, which is a sublegal act, and it won't be able to be the subject of debate in this assembly. In any case, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the right to be informed, to decide and to discuss which list it will be. It's a shame that the minister is simply at the small door of all those promises he made last year treads in one of these ways.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16075	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16076	This is a member referring to what the minister advertised, which is a minimum excise. We have submitted an amendment that we asked for changes to be made in item 4 in points 2) and (3), to be 100% replaced by 80%, and we have asked for a correction in all attitudes and instead of the word "most popular price" to use the term "with the largest volume of transport in the Republic of Serbia", because really, the fact that something is written in English and has some meaning does not necessarily mean that we can use it. What's the most popular price of a product, of a group of cigarettes? If that comes from the word "populus", it means the most natural or most advertised price, so that these terms are not used in the economy. I just learned from the government's response that the only reason he didn't accept the amendment is because he thinks we should have English in our language. There's another much greater danger. We didn't want to go deeper into intervention when it comes to this principle of minimum excise duty. In the light of this bill, you have stated that this makes it impossible for us to place bad quality cigarettes on the market. The increase in excise duty, which would not depend on the price of the product, would already have that fixed amount, practically increases the prices of the lowest categories of cigarettes and thus affects that the manufacturers here place as high-quality cigarettes as possible, and that what is not supposed to come to our market. This way you can't stop it. This way you can increase, in some ways, budget revenues. I have to tell you, you've forgotten one thing. You forgot that in the package, when the Democratic Party was selling our tobacco industry, it was defined, and you have the right to object, excise policy five years ahead. I think it's those members of 40a, b, u, etc. In this way, you make those monopolies even bigger monopolies, because you send a message to cigarette importers not to import some cigarettes, because they will be burdened with a uniform amount of excise duty, that there is no god-like interest in that import, and thus you confirm the DS position that those who privatise our tobacco industry are this market at will. That health care of yours I'm particularly concerned about, because there are no cigarettes that poison less or more, all poison, I guess it's clear to everyone. You wind up in that neighborhood, so take care of the nation, so you increase excise duties for the worst, allegedly, quality, thus preventing the gray economy in the area and increasing revenues and indirectly affecting some of the better quality of cigarettes. It's all wrong, it's all weird. This concept of minimum excise duty, you'll see for yourself, will create an even bigger monopoly for these producers who are with us. I have to distract you, those who privatized our tobacco factories are not willing to buy tobacco from our peasants, but imports of tobacco. Well, why didn't you put some pressure on them? I guess buying our tobacco stimulates our production and our manufacturers. This is how you hit only the end-user, the consumer and protected the monopoly of the cigarette manufacturer, but that's where our peasants and those who grow tobacco and who have the amount to buy, because our tobacco industries aren't something willing and in the mood, because if they import there from some country in Africa, they can do a little bit of washing documentation, so let's stay here for a while, to stay there, it's dangerous. So, with this amendment, we didn't want to go against your concept of minimum excise duty, but we're telling you, he's wrong. We wanted to intervene with the amendments, because you wouldn't accept them, as you won't accept this one, which is minimal and in accordance with your concept, because there's a pure pathology of non-acceptation here. See for yourself, it's been a few months and you're in exactly the situation we're talking about in advance about what's going to happen and where it's going to come from. It's not good that you handed over our entire market and gave everything to those who bought our cigarette-making factories, and it's especially bad that you're making this intervention another benefit to those people, these groups, because that's how you prove that you're more faithful than the DS who bought our businesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16077	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16078	Article 4 refers to Article 17 of the Law which is in force and, I must remind you, this article has a title – indexation. Item 1, which the Government does not, of course, change, reads: ′′Dinarian is excised from art. 9th to 13th of this law shall be harmonised at a half-yearly rate of growth of prices to a small extent, according to the authority responsible for statistics affairs. ′′ This first position guarantees that the fixed amount of excise duty in the law is changed through this indexation, i.e. coordination, thus safeguarding the substance, the value of this excise duty at any time, as it monitors the changes in the market. However, what the government is now trying to put in new positions, which is exactly what Minister Dinkic just noted as the government's greatest success, where due to the change in the price of oil derivatives, or crude oil on the market, and in order to preserve macroeconomic stability, up to 20% of the amount of excise duties can reduce the government, we cannot hand that power over to the government. We're not authorized to do that. If the government should be empowered to apply a certain legal standard, then both the conditions and the way we have to prescribe the law very precisely and simply, so that the Government can apply it. This formulation gives us neither the conditions nor the procedure, nor the way, but we hand over the government the authority we have. We can't do that. Of course, we asked to be a member of the 4th. The bill is deleted. It practically concerns the change in attitudes 2, 3 and 4 of the existing Article 17, meaning something is deleted, this is inserted where the government can reduce up to 20% the amount of excise duty, and if the price of crude oil falls, it can return to the amount prescribed by law. If you think it can be an instrument affecting the retail price of an oil derivative, I need to draw your attention to the delay in the dates when this is done. Anyone who knows how to trade crude oil knows that if you order oil today in a few months, you'll get that oil, because that oil needs to be bought, to provide bank guarantees, to transfer it by appropriate means of transport, to process it, so who knows when to come to the market. There are different shifts in the world market during this period, as oil is a stock market product. If you thought this way you were guaranteeing the stability of the retail price of an oil derivative and regulating this guff that exists to oil retailers, and above all to the owners of gas stations, then I must tell you that you have entered into a question called – margins. The issue of margins is solved by your regulation, you are authorized by a regulation on oil derivatives prices, and determine the structure of retail prices and gasoline, and diesels and all derivatives, but do not interfere with excise policy in such a way that you assume some authority, and you will take great responsibility, completely unnecessary, unconstitutional and illegal. What happens when the price of crude oil falls drastically, and it's been unnaturally high for months; well, it's probably high because someone should pay for the war in Iraq. That's what you know. Why would Serbian citizens pay for war in Iraq? Why? I think it's very easy for you to go through these changes, because you don't have any expert analysis, not just an assessment of what's going to be on the market, but you don't have an estimate of what's going on with the structure of the retail price of an oil derivative. Let me remind you, it's all about the monopoly, so if it's all about the monopoly, then how can you not have control? I warn the Members of Parliament if this article 4 is accepted. The bill of law, we knowingly violate the Constitution and regulations, because we empower the government to do something that is our authority. Remember, citizens are obliged to pay taxes and excise duties, in accordance with the law and under the law, not under the regulation, in accordance with the regulation, will or will of the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16079	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16080	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that Mr Zoran Krasic is one of the best legal experts, at least when it comes to legislation and everything that has happened in Serbia 15 years ago, and changes in the system and other laws, it is necessary to accept his amendment to Article 4, because he is unequivocally telling us that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on its own free will, with your possible vote against this amendment or for such an unchanged draft of the law, is in the jurisdiction that cannot possibly be the subject of its business. Speaking in the principle of the Excise Law proposal, I pointed out today that even in many other more developed countries, where, in a really clear way, market economy works with regulated regulatory rules, the governments of those countries must be some regulator, but only to a certain extent, and only in one that does not penetrate another branch of government. If you go this way, I mean the Government and Minister Dinkic, who is not here, to treat something that is law, namely the highest legislative body – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and here there are many lawyers and MPs who are in power, who have been Members of the National Assembly for a long time, then go well to abolish the Assembly, let the Government of the Republic of Serbia rule by regulations, what will the laws do to you. It is simply amazing that the government as an excuse and the reason why such a member is established in the law states the fact that it has occurred, and in particular it has been expressed over the past year, for the reasons Mr Krasic has also spoken of, there is a disturbance on the world market in oil and oil derivatives, and that we need to empower, practically legalise future government moves in one unstable, or stable, market situation or match. We don't know that. We can only speculate, and these are the things in the area of the market economy, which are affecting far beyond Serbia and what we are, as the National Assembly, because this is something that makes such relations between the powers and which is why predominance is taking place and which has led to the initial crisis, which later ended with the bombing of Iraq and in the Middle Eastern area at all. Do not give yourself the right to do anything in other countries that could not be brought under the law and constitutionality, to say what we care about what they do. But take care of what the Constitution gives you, as an opportunity to do, and a sublegal act, the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is quite different. You, therefore, in the basic text of many laws in certain members or chapters have the possibility that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should be allowed to regulate an area by regulations and other general acts. But in this way, when it comes to determining the price of excise duty, it gives the government the opportunity to pass it on to the market, where a fluctuating excise is established, it is unacceptable and, at the very least, devastating for the Republika Srpska Assembly. No one has ever thought of it before, and there have been many, not only since 1990, but even while the communists have ruled; and they have at least passed some laws through the quasi-delegate system, all come to this buried basement here called the Hall of the People's Assembly, crawled, passed some laws, and then it was resolved. Let me now, as a society that predicates to be democratic, which is obviously not, that through the institutions of the system, where every branch of government should do its job, let us face what is the work of the MPs and the National Assembly, because every cent of the excise that flows into the budget... And that's the same budget, I'll remind you, ladies and gentlemen, for which you vote or do not vote, as the SRS does while you and those predecessors are in power. A legal precedent of political nature will be made, however you wish, if Article 4 is adopted in such a text, without Mr Krasic's amendment, which I suggest you adopt, which is in fact the basic motive of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to get out of one situation, from which it could have done so in a legitimate manner, by amending the Law on Excises. How's that going to happen next when we get to Articles 7 and 9, we'll talk about it. How's the market going to work? We're not much of a comeback to do that, so we can predict what's going to happen. We're the most legislative body, we're the only ones who can do our job based on facts. One such thing is happening (and there may be a drastic fall, as counterpart Krasic said, how do you know it) an incredible leap, and greater than what we have now, nicely summon the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs come, so if you need to change the law every month or that article that talks about the level of excise duties for oil and oil derivatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16081	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16082	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that's the part I was talking about when I explained my amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of a competent minister, should now determine the amount of excise duties on oil and oil derivatives, i.e. diesel fuel and motor gasoline. Now the question arises more why have we been sitting in this same congregation several times in this assembly, in this mandate, and increasing excise duties on oil and oil derivatives. The minister could have written that then. And yet he could write, not to waste any more time, to suffer these criticisms, to deafen himself from them, simply to escape from this room, not to listen, and if he listens, the question is whether or not he hears. Just let him conduct his policy the way he likes it. In general, this way of regulation, where the minister may have set some upper or lower limit, certainly does not solve the problem, since the difference in the amount of diesel fuel is about three dinars, for motor gasoline about 4 - 4.5 dinars. That's what's supposed to help us solve the issue of oil and oil derivatives on the market. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that, when it comes to excise policy, the amount of excise duties only has the right to determine the National Assembly, especially since you have already allowed the indexation of the amount of excise duties in this article and are increasing prices to a small extent. At the same time, when you determine the basics, let's say, for pensions, it's some ratio between profit growth and price growth to a little bit. Why didn't you apply such provisions when you're filling the budget? You only prove that this government is also insisting on the policy initiated by the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's government; as they ruled, as they did, so will you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16083	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 4a be added after Article 4. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 5 of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Ms. Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16084	Mr. Chairman, it's probably not in that paper of yours, but I think a big mistake has been made. The government can only submit amendments if some of the amendments of MPs are adopted in the debate on details. We have amendments here that have been submitted a few days after the law entered the procedure, that is, we have amendments that the government has submitted to its proposal for legislation, when no amendments have yet been made by the MPs. I know, you have a majority, you won't accept it, but you know we've had a few times here where there's a general agreement on the appearance of a member and that the government needs to intervene with the amendment, so you've been giving interpretations that the government is not able to submit the amendment at this time. If then the government was unable to submit the amendment, then there was no way she could have submitted the amendment here. Article 5 – we are not clear at all why you changed the text of Article 20b item 2 where you replaced the word "agency" with the word "organisation". You see, for three years in this room, we've been listening to canonada and epics about how everything should be an agency; the agency for this, the agency for that. We criticise – it can't, people, it doesn't fit the organisation of the state government, that you took, say, government, directorates and some other names to describe the authorities of the administration, or organisations that exercise some administrative powers. No, it's falling into the water. You pushed through the tobacco agency. Now the Excise Act is changing, so it won't be a tobacco agency anymore, it'll be a tobacco organization. Who can be clear? You'll probably change these other regulations too, so we'll have an organization, in law, probably some kind of business register organization, and then, you'll say, yes, but it's a public agency based on the Public Agency Act. Don't, people, do it anymore. This was not a necessary change, but you have only drawn attention to the character of the government and how this authority in continuity thinks about how they should be organised and under what name the authorities of the state administration and administrative organisation should operate. We've only submitted this amendment to distract you, if you're consistent, then be consistent, but don't change. For years you've convinced us of the justification of the term – agency, agency, agency, and now you've come up with something, you don't need that term, but let's call it an organization, and in the tobacco law there will probably still be an agency. If this is your flexible excise policy, then so be it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16085	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in essence, this is just a termological amendment, but I can't help but think about it and forget that story from a few months ago, or since you started starting agencies. There, reportedly in line with European integration, with reforms in the country, how all of the countries in the EU have, that all countries that have established agencies in transition to the EU, have listed how many Frances, how many Germany, Great Britain, Austria has. You talked about how it's the most modern and the best, how it's the best designed system of state administration, and you even invented an agency for the establishment of the agency, so that only one or two sessions after the establishment of the Agency's founding agency put it that there is no longer a tobacco agency, but now it's an organization. It is the essence of your authority, which our people would say - not necks, but necks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16087	The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Since the Finance Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been given the opportunity and the amendments today to defend, after that practice you introduced yesterday that no more amendments can be submitted to the draft laws. I don't know why this change of heart today. Is it possible that Mr. Markovic did not have time to gather this famous Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that he might suggest for this law that there are no amendments, because, my God, it should be adopted the way the government would like it. Now, Mr. Markovic, I would like you to answer me on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure you banned yesterday to debate and vote on amendments, and on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure do you allow it today? Instead, Mr. Markovic, you have suspicious consultations here, you'd better pay attention to what's being discussed here. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6. The draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises, which is required to replace the new Article 39b in point 2 of the word "minister in charge of finance affairs" with the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia". Therefore, Article 39b, the new member added to this proposal on amendments and additions to the Law, has been regulated that persons who use oil derivatives for industrial purposes may obtain the refaction of the excise duties paid, provided that those derivatives are obtained from the importer, that is, the producer of those oil products, and that the importer, or the manufacturer, has paid the prescribed amount of excise duty. First of all, it is completely unclear why it is prescribed that only if the appropriate amount of excise duties on these derivatives can be paid, because it is probably the first and basic condition that what is sought back is also charged. It is hard to believe that someone who obtained oil on a black, or producer or importer who smuggled that oil into the country will later ask for any excise duty to be returned to him, by any means, because it would in fact only put himself in a position to be accused of smuggling, i.e. of not paying excise duties and to be subject to extremely large penalties. The second thing that is controversial is that, under this Article 39b, the conditions, the way and the procedure to exercise the right to refuse the excise duty is prescribed by the minister responsible for financial affairs. The position of the Serbian Radical Party is that such things should not be left to the finance minister. So, you can't give in to the finance minister, you can't give in to any minister, especially when we have the experience we have with Mladjan Dinkic, then it's clear he doesn't need to be given any work in the government, and certainly not as important. Because in this way you will allow him to continue to go into a number of malfeasances, to enable his friends in certain areas of privileged conditions, and that he, on his own, as he will say arbitrarily, decides who will have the right to recover the excise payments, in which extent and on what basis. It should also be said that the new government law, which seems to be back on the agenda, provides for a similar solution, under which such things would fall under the government's jurisdiction. Therefore, the government, as a collegiate body, should declare the conditions under which someone will be able to exercise the right to refaction of excise duties. For all this, I invite you to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16089	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16090	This member of the bill has two major problems. The first problem is that refaction as a form of vomiting is one material right, and if someone is the right that is guaranteed, then it is rightly used, realized and enjoyed in accordance with the Constitution and the law. If we come to that point, then I have to tell you that the way and procedure of exercising some rights should be settled and can be regulated by law. Thus, the way and procedure of exercising a right is governed by law. If we enter what you have written here in item 2 – closer to the conditions, the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to refaction will be prescribed by the finance minister, he should not, nor should he, by law, be able to do so, but rather by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is authorized to prescribe conditions, the way and the process of exercising the right to refaction. This is the first problem and it is more of a problem in the Republic Secretariat of legislation, because, obviously, the system you're building in a legal sense is so dilute that there is no unity. Of course, no one can think of running proceedings before the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, because other rules apply there. Another major problem in applying this article will be what you stated in attitude 1. Here you are saying – a person who produces oil from Article 9 paragraph 1 point 3... And to remind you that this applies to those other derivatives, where excise duty is prescribed in the amount of 32 dinars, are not classic gasoline or diesel fuel. You see, it says – benefits for industrial purposes. Does anyone know what it means to use these derivatives for industrial purposes? Let me explain how this might seem very problematic. Using for industrial purposes may be that this derivative is a semi-factory, that raw materials can also be re-promaterial in the extreme case. I'll take an example of the oil industry, where a special type of derivative is used, and it's called hexane; it's not built into the product, but through that hexane it peels the sunflower. Then what's the industrial purpose? Is that raw? So let me tell you, as far as the bitumen diluent is concerned, the petroleum oil is used as 60 or 70% of the composition. It's not a product, but it's used for industrial purposes to make a product. How do you define what it is for industrial purposes as you wrote here? You will in practice have a rush, every producer that uses it in the production process will address you with a request to interpret what the industrial purpose you have stated in this article refers to. It's very dangerous when someone writes the law and doesn't know the matter that needs to be regulated by law. If you've been sufflified for this, I'm telling you, it's ignorant. Now you're bringing into an awkward situation the parliamentary majority that they have to vote for something, and after a few months, the minister will come out here again and fold his shoulders and say, well yes, the radicals were right half a year ago when they warned us that it was wrong. It's not the purpose of the amendment of obstruction, it's the purpose of the amendment to fix something, improve it, fix it. If you cannot recognize that the amendment is improving something, ask, because you have one committee, another or third committee – what you thought and why you submitted this. I'm not going to give you specific examples, so a few industrial branches that use these things will come into a situation to exercise the right to refaction, they're going to have to ask for an interpretation of how to apply this article. You'll have one interpretation of the Ministry of Science and Technology, you'll have another interpretation of the Ministry of Energy, you'll have a third interpretation of a tax authority. So, what's it all come down to? It comes down to the will of someone to interpret anything, whether they've requested one or one, whether there's a director in that firm from my party or from another party. The government can be authorized, the finance ministry cannot be authorized. This is a continuing error, and I remind you that a similar error was made when the VAT law was passed. So this is a similar mistake. You at the Treasury have to turn things down a little bit, because to control all financial flows, you accept everything else, and some things that have nothing to do with finance. You get into technology, into work methodology, into balances, into everything, it can't be controlled. If you have this concept of the Ministry of Finance, what needs to be controlled, if this is all, then you don't need other ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16091	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16092	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, a man could understand that the mode of refaction is prescribed by the ministry, yet it is an organ, but not that the minister, one official in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who, through such amendments and addition of the law, is simply, in every way possible, mixed. Apparently, as he claimed in his present exposé, someone once used diluters as motor fuels, so there were significant tax frauds and value added taxes, so now we're going to introduce excise duties on it, the manufacturer and the importer will pay excise duties on it, and then the one who uses it for industrial purposes will issue a request to the minister to pay him back the excess of the excise duties, i.e. the fact that the minister will also determine which list of these products, i.e. oil derivatives to which the excise is to be paid, prescribes a way to return, or refaction of the excise. Now all he has to do is prescribe for us and where these products to which the excise is returned can be used, for which purpose and for which they are produced. So the entire finance minister controls how many times we're going to breathe, 14 or 16 times a minute. The funny thing I heard from the minister is that it will now be possible to refuse the oil and oil derivatives that are sold in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. As far as I know, oil and oil derivatives paid for by excise duties were released only if these oil derivatives were sold outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It seems that Mr. Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already written off Kosovo in advance, as it is significant to him, because we have no place to place surpluses of oil derivatives, so we will do so in Kosovo. Perhaps it is, in addition to the political damage already done by one of its own procedures, another intention, because so far the biggest smuggling and the greatest abuses that existed here were related to trade with Kosovo, where the entire pack of cigarettes disappeared, where the entire motor fuel tanks disappeared. Now we're giving that opportunity, because we're supposed to trust customs and other border authorities, and we don't trust that if these oil and oil derivatives come from other countries, will our border services do it right? Therefore, there is now a monopoly that can import crude oil, which can import oil and oil derivatives, on the grounds that it would prevent smuggling, because there is no trust in state authorities, and this is not trusted by the one that should be controlled by that state body, and other abuses via Kosovo and Metohija are allowed to disappear again, where the entire helmets of cigarettes, the entire tank of motor fuels will disappear again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16093	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16094	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the entire atmosphere in the O.R., or perhaps the lack of air in this area where we are working, obviously leads some MPs to either not listen or follow in half, but here is a very important thing right now, because it's talking about tobacco excise. I must remind you of the fact that during the vote of the tobacco agency, the Serbian Radical Party has had major objections, because that year, when the tobacco agency passed, we had one of the biggest affairs that has shaken Serbia in the last ten years, and it is related to Stanko Subotic, called Cana Zhabac, the king of the tobacco mafia, as Professor Vojislav Seselj in his book, and the involvement of the summit of the then-dosing regime in cigarette smuggling in the Serbia-Montenegro area. These are very serious things, and when it comes to the excise and intensities of this government to determine how to determine the amount of excise duty and prevent tax evasion in the transport of cigarettes, we need to be much more careful. Now, as a Serbian radical, it is not clear to me at all why you rejected what you were praising (I think some of the factors of this current government and of you who were not then in the Assembly, and you predicated to come to it), when it comes to the tobacco agency. What kind of organization is this going to do now? A moment ago, when Mr Krasic was an amendment, we cited in the amendment to Article 7, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that he was also related to Article 4 and to the tasks that the government should do, we clearly pointed out the possibility of monopoly, but now it is about the possibility of abuse and smuggling. We think that the members of the law, where you suggest that these three positions of the existing member 40v are deleted, and the newly foreseen members of 40g, 40d and 40j, are added, are not sufficient to prevent possible tax evasion and abuse, regardless of the criminal provisions and that criminal policy. When you hear the explanation of the amendment submitted to Article 9 by Mr Momir Markovic, you will see that by transmuting those members 40ð and 40v, in the way he suggested it on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, you can be calmer to some extent. When it comes to organised crime, which is also present with you, and you have seen that the generous representatives of the Democratic Party, particularly the mayor of Belgrade and the current president, in fact the president of his party, the biggest tobacco smugglers in the Balkans, such as Milo Djukanovic and his criminal click, gave support to Budva seven days ago, then you see that you are dealing with serious criminals, especially those who are representatives of the authorities in Montenegro and who have their extended hands here and here in Belgrade and in Serbia, and that we need to make a lot more account when we define how a retail price will be determined and how to prevent tax evasion, because there are ways of enormous wealth. By eradicating this Article 7 and through the amendment submitted by Mr. Momir Markovic to Article 9 it will in some ways correct the error made by the legislator to this proposal by Article 7 and Article 9. The Excise Act, when it comes to tobacco.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16095	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not surprised at the decision of the Committee and the Government not to accept this amendment, because it's probably behind something. Amendment to Article 9. The draft law on amendments and additions actually refers to Article 41 of the basic law. I now ask the Members of Parliament to open page 7, in this material that we have received for the session, which reads, "Article 41."ordinarily it refers to criminal policy, and it says, "A fine of 10,000 to a million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if," so it goes: "1)" and empty, and then "2) to the excise charge" and so to point 10. So point 1) is the minister reserved for himself, so he can write down what he wants and that he can punish whatever he wants. We need to adopt this today, and point 1) in Article 41 remains empty. Please, in fact, I would ask the minister, if he had found it appropriate to be there, to explain to me what point 1) of Article 41 should mean. Or we could make a deal, and we could interrupt the session, let the minister come over, write in point 1) what to do, and possibly talk about it. It's really amazing. Article 9, which is to be provided for in Article 41 of the basic law, is provided for. 40b and 40j, and I am asking the amendment to replace it with Articles 40b, 40v and 40j. In order for it to be clearer, I need to read these three members of the law, so that we have a comprehensive picture and that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you know what you're voting on. Otherwise, if you take this material that has come to us, based on which we were to prepare for this session, you will see members 40b, 40v and 40j, etc., one general papaziania and nothing like it. It takes a lot of time to get into matter. Article 40b: ′′On cigarettes from imports and on cigarettes produced in the country, in addition to excise duty from Article 40a of this Act, excise duty is also paid at the height; then it is said to the period from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2006 30%; in the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2009 40% and from 1 January 2010. ′′ Article 40v says: ′′The dinar amount of excise duty from Article 40a of this Act shall be adjusted to a small increase in prices. ′′ That means, if the prices rise slightly and the excise will rise. I don't think there's any need to explain, but if it's 30%, normally, if something costs 100 dinars, and 30%, it's 130 dinars; if it costs 110 dinars, it's going to be 133 dinars, etc. However, if such a proposal has already come, then we should include that member. ′′ The coordination of the dinar amounts of excise duty shall be carried out in accordance with Article 17 of this Act. The retail price of cigarettes referred to in Article 40b of Article 3 of this Act shall also be applied to the tobacco agency, which is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia′. ′′ What should have possibly been avoided is a member of 40jj. He refers to criminal provisions. "Small sales prices per unit of tobacco processing measure referred to in Article 40b of Article 3 of Article 40g of position 3 and Article 40d of Article 40d of the Law shall be reported to the tobacco organisation, which shall publish them in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. ′′ Now we have come up with another paradox that created the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Trade, or which already the Ministry interferes in this; wherever the excises are, wherever the money is, there are three or four ministries, you can no longer tell who it is from. We had the Agency and we swallowed that agency, although Serbian Radical Party MPs proved to Serbian citizens that opening the agency was only an opportunity to hire all those who put up posters, blow whistles, because they hired you and you had to. It seems you didn't manage to pack everything up at the agency, and then we'll create an organization, and then we'll end up with an organization to form an agency and create an organization. I hope you won't be long, and then the SRS, when it takes over, will clear this and all the other laws, because the law must be brief, summed up, clear to everyone who applies it and anyone who applies it. When you come with 40 and an entire alphabet and half an alphabet, I don't think the ones who suggested it understand this, either. Let's move on... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) I'm sorry, but these are the members, a, b, v, 40g and j, I have to read and beg to be denied my time because I quote the members. For six minutes, as I speak, I've been quoting members for five and a half minutes. (President: Mr. Markovic, you've exceeded your time for more than a minute, please bring the end. ) I have to quote another Article 40ð until the end and then make it clear to people: "The manufacturer, i.e. the importer, can set a retail price for cigarettes that is higher than the retail price he set when applying for the issue of control excise stamps, provided that it has reported to the tobacco organisation, which is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia." "I just wonder if this same decision will be made by the tobacco agency and the tobacco organisation to publish? Are we going to have two official lists, an official list for organizations that publish and an official list for agencies? Finally, the retail prices referred to in Article 1 must be highlighted in, or on the retail facility, so that they are clearly visible to consumers of tobacco products. ′′ I suggest that everyone who deals with tobacco trade all of these from 40 to 40h, b, g, d, to photocopy and deliver to people to be clear. Believe me, until I read it three times, nothing was clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16097	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The representative of the proposing and the Committee on Finance did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16098	Mr Cvetanovic's amendment refers to Article 43. The law, that's Article 10. The bill, and with the previous amendment, makes one whole. It's about criminal provisions. Article 41 provides for criminal penalties for legal persons and Article 43 for natural persons and entrepreneurs. What the Government has proposed as a change concerns what has changed in the previous members, and what is not covered by the amendment refers practically to our amendment to Article 7, because we do not accept the change in Article 40v, i.e. to delete points 3, 4 and 5. This has led to the need to submit amendments to Article 9 and Article 10 because, with the amendment to Article 7, they constitute one continent. That's quite enough for this amendment, but I think it's important for these amendments and for what you have stated in the next Article 11. You said: “Extremely from Article 3 of this Law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia”, and now something about prescribing and publishing prices. This provision of Article 11 will, after two days of the publication of the law, be a historical provision. When it comes to historical provisions that have the character of transitional provisions, then there is no need to say that something extraordinary is from something prescribed by law. You don't need to, a team before you can do this all the time, and this is about these amendments that have been filed. Given that we are nearing the end, the president will not mind me, I would also comment on what you stated in Article 12, where we have submitted the amendment; this phase or late alignment, half-yearly, is quite unnecessary. We have also submitted this amendment to Article 12, because there is one problem, as regards the first item of the agenda, where the Constitutional Charter and the Law for the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter were discussed. You waited until the last moment, the deadline that was prescribed by law expired, so a few months later you put your finger on your head to think, and then you realized that something had to change, and then you suggest a change, and when it comes to the agenda, that change is adopted, and then you see that it's six, seven, eight, and who knows how many months. Now you're making us cover the illegal situation in this period. It can never be covered. You have to understand, if you have 249, most of them here, you still can't cover the illegal state that existed. I don't know where they come from, they just race. The Democrats invented it, though, and there were such situations in the Federal Assembly, especially in 1993 and 1994. This has to be avoided. This shows that the congregation does not respect its regulations, the government does not respect its regulations, does not respect its obligations. The exact same situation – if you have seen and felt that there will be no direct elections, five months before you change the Constitutional Charter, conduct the procedure. If you felt that, due to the change in the law and the transition to a half-yearly alignment, indexation, which would be done for October, November and December, would cause the price of the oil derivative to be abnormally high in January, February, March and April due to the rise in the price of crude oil, then immediately change the Excise Act, if you have defined to resolve it through excise duties. You don't, now you say – what was our obligation on January 1st will be fulfilled on July 1st, and even in combination with minus 20%. You know, the profession is devalued, the Assembly is insulted, the Constitution is insulted, the Constitution is trampled, the law is trampled. The question is always asked – why do we bring the law if it does not bind anyone? Or he commits so much that when he breaks it, he comes to the Assembly and most of the vote and he's not responsible, most of them finish the job. Then there's practically no crime of abuse of official position. Why? All covers the congregation and the congregation majority. It simply must change logic towards constitutionality and legality. It's not enough to say - I'm a law and a blue lung and I'm done. Let's see some of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16099	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16100	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, a member of the 43rd Law to which this amendment applies is only one member who regulates certain specific obligations on criminal provisions for non-compliance under this law. There have already been such errors in the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act before, and I see that in such mistakes this ministry has endured. Therefore, in Article 41 of this Act in paragraph 1, it is said: ′′A fine of between 10,000 and million dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if′′, and says in point 9) ′′ the sale of cigarettes at retail prices which are different from those determined by the manufacturer, i.e. the importer; and point 10) – the retail prices of cigarettes are not declared to the tobacco agency, and are not highlighted in, or on the facility of the store for a little while so that they are clearly visible. Article 43 says - a fine of 5,000 to 500,000 dinars will punish a natural person - entrepreneur, point 8 says - if retail prices of cigarettes are not declared to the tobacco agency, as well as if they are not highlighted in, or on the facility of the store, so that they are clearly visible. I also ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs who support this government - what is the difference between a legal person and an entrepreneur if they perform the same action and if the same offence is committed? Is it not the government's job to ensure that all participants in their lives are fully equal, regardless of whether it is DOO, STR, SZR, SUR etc. What is the difference between the action performed by a legal person and a natural person? In a way of keeping books alone and in nothing more; and the question arises whether someone is running complex or simple bookkeeping, whether he is running analytical or synthetic accounting. What else? In the financial power of legal and physical persons. Believe she's gone. She's practically gone. You have all the independent trades or independent trades that are much stronger by the number of workers, objects, capital than the large part of the legal entity, i.e. companies. Now only because of some prejudices will the owner, i.e. the entrepreneur, pay a lesser penalty for the same offence he commits in relation to the legal person. I really don't understand what the proposer of this law and this government wants with this. So not everyone in that game called the profit race is even. Someone can afford economics to pay that fine of 500,000 dinars, because thanks to more facilities, more workers will earn more. It was not a measure of whether it was a legal person or a natural person, but of the capital he had at his disposal. This should also be accepted, and the conditions of criminal policy are exactly the same for all those involved in economic life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16101	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16102	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11. with a proposal to delete it. In Article 11. The bill provides that, on a proposal from the tobacco organisation, the Serbian Government will find and publish in the ′′ Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia, within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the most popular prices and minimum excise duties on cigarettes and other tobacco products. In Article 10, which precedes Article 11, it is seen in Article 2, that the proposer proposes that the word "age" be replaced by the word "organisation". It is obvious that there have been a lot of agencies, so the government has decided either to replace the agencies under a different name, or to reduce the administration that works in agencies; or it will remain the same state, only to change the words, instead of "agency" – "organisation". I would not like to repeat what the MPs said in the previous presentation, I would just like to point out that this is about a term that is unknown, I think it is wrong; it is said – the amount of the most popular prices. Instead of the words - most popular, it should have been - marketable. She is a popular singer, football player, film actor, etc., but in no case – the most popular price. I guess it should be indicated here that it's a market price. I will not repeat what MP Markovic, MP Krasic, said, because it is quite said and I suggest that the MPs adopt the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, which was tabled on Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16103	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16104	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, by proposing that Article 12 be made. The bill is deleted. To illustrate, I'm going to quote a member of the bill that I've proposed to delete. It says – harmonising the amount of excise duty on oil derivatives referred to in Article 9(1) and (2) of the Excise Act with the price rate to a small extent in October, November and December 2004 will be implemented in July 2005. So this alignment is almost eight months late. The regulation in force no longer applies, and if such a proposal were adopted, it would mean a kind of government amnesty, because the government did not act by law. Or, if it had to change the law, it should have submitted an initiative to amend the law in time, if that reason had arisen in the need to comply with the country's economic developments. But she didn't do it. She has abused the official position, practically now covering this member with her unhappiness. In that sense, if this law were to be adopted, it would mean the amnesty of the Government, so I ask you to accept this amendment to Article 12. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16105	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this Article 12. The amendments and additions to the law really go beyond yourself. Someone here really needs to be talented enough to write something like this, at least publicly admit it. Thanks to your own stubbornness, not to mention what else, you insisted on another extremely high fiscal policy, with high fiscal and tax benefits. Because of the various factors that were in the environment, which you couldn't control, but you were warned in time by the Serbian Radical Party on them, you got involved in a chain circuit. So, there was already a problem with the harmonisation of excise duties as early as November and December of last year. You should not have obeyed the law that you yourself have passed, which this government has proposed to the National Assembly and which you, gentlemen of dear colleagues of the ruling majority, have voted. Now this same government asks you to forgive her for humiliating you so that she does not comply with the law that you have passed. It's nothing else. The reason why the government didn't do it is cowardice; cowardice – because they estimated it would be politically extremely bad to respect the law they wrote themselves. It was not a concern for the citizens of Serbia, at least this government is concerned by the citizens of Serbia, but only the political damage they will experience if they continue with this law that I repeat, you wrote and brought in those who support this ruling majority. The only reason why this Article 12 has been incorporated into amendments and additions to the Excise Act. Now what? It is now required that no one responds, even morally, which has not been followed by the law that you gentlemen of the ruling majority have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16107	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. The bill, which reads: "This law shall enter into force on the following day from the day of its publication in the ′ Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia′. With my amendment, this goes back to constitutional frameworks and I suggest that the words "the next day" be replaced by the words "the eighth day". For what? Because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 120, said: "The law, the second regulation or the general act shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." So if we were to adopt or if you, as a majority, would adopt this article in the form provided for in the bill, you would violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia requires that the laws and other acts adopted by this assembly enter into force at the earliest of the eighth day. Of course, the Constitution also provides for exceptions, the possibility that in particularly justified cases a regulation should enter into force before. However, there is no reason here to apply this part of the constitutional solution, i.e. to introduce this bill into legal traffic before the eighth day of publication. I would like to remind you of what the legislator said when he tried to explain the reasons why he required entry into force earlier than the eighth day of his publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The promoter says, "A particularly justified reason for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of the day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", in the sense of Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is contained in the need to put into effect as soon as possible the provisions of this law relating to the start of the excise duty on tobacco processing through the application of the concept of minimum excise duty, which will have an effect on the greater inflow of excise income." If the promoter had listed here as the reason for earlier application or early entry into force of this law oil and oil derivatives, or the problems that exist now in Serbia, in the last few days, especially with diesel, then I would understand this. In fact, the last few days in Serbia, there have been no elevators. I would understand that the bill promoter said – we will apply this law the next day from the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" to stabilise the situation on the oil derivatives market; we will reduce the excise duty to enable processors and traffickers to provide oil derivatives and deliver the market with sufficient diesel. However, the promoter does not mention diesel in these reasons, but mentions the excise duty on tobacco processing. I cannot understand what is so urgent about this excise on tobacco processing when Mr Dinkic said today in his exposé and boasted he had a budget surplus of 900 million dinars for the first few months. If there's already that surplus, if there's extra money, why does it suddenly come down here to violate the Constitution so as soon as possible from excise duties on tobacco processing? So, to conclude, since there's a lot of impatience in the O.R. to bring this to an end, I ask the congregation's majority not to violate the Constitution in this way, there's no reason for that. These seven or eight days will pass very quickly, and since the bill says that it remains 15 days for certain concrete acts, which come as sublegal acts, that deadline can be shortened to seven days, so that those who are competent to prescribe these acts can speed up a little work, but that this is respected, that we do not violate the Constitution on certain banal things, that it does not go into practice in this assembly, it will be very ugly in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16109	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Let me tell you, this is the last amendment, I'd like to ask you to be specific, if we can't finish, and if we can't, and that's fine, we'll have to meet tomorrow at 10.00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16110	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I see that the chairman is in a hurry as well as the minister and this government, and they say - the law comes into force the next day of publication. I just don't understand what the rush is, because you sent this proposal to the National Assembly on March 21st, and now it's June 1st. So you could have waited, this paper was waiting so far in drawers, so you took it out and now it's in a hurry, and it's supposed to be the minister, here, for a few days now, that when this law comes into force, it's going to remain the price of oil and oil derivatives. What they say in the light of this last article, which regulates the date of entry into force of this law – particularly a legitimate reason for the entry into force of the law earlier than the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger", within the meaning of Article 120. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is contained in the need to put into effect as soon as possible the provisions of this law relating to the start of the excise duty on tobacco processing by applying the concept of minimum excise duty, which will have an effect on the greater inflow of excise income. Now it's quite nice to see what I said when I explained the previous amendment - I don't care about this government for the citizens of Serbia, it's only important to give money from the citizens, give money, give it to them as soon as possible and take as much as possible to keep them poor, feed them on a spoon, so they don't think for themselves. There's not a word here in your explanation about oil and oil derivatives, and you've been boasting for days.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-01-0.u16111	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on these points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint June 2nd 2005, starting at 15.00 hours, as the day for voting on the agenda of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005.
