ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14450	SRS MP Bozidar Koprivica suggested that Article 8 be deleted. Proposal for a law on the registration and recording of the seized property. Article 8 says: "The submission of the transfer of property within the meaning of this law does not constitute an application for the right to return of the seized property or compensation for that property, but a condition for such a claim to be lodged under a special law. "This member, ladies and gentlemen, is the essence of the government's fraud against the former owners of the seized land. That's what we Serbian radicals have been talking about for days when we talk about this law. Of course, and this time I want to stress the principled position of the SRS that the law on restitution, and denationalisation, and the return of property, however you will, should not be passed and cannot be passed, of course, we have instructed a series of reasons for it, and I said, if ever it happens to the agenda of that law, then we will talk about it in more detail. We have been saying for years that almost all of Serbia and almost all of Serbia's parties have been falsely promising to return the seized property, and in this article, you yourself said that you would not do so and that only the goal of registering it is to repossess the property and that it is a condition that, as such, the request is submitted in accordance with a special law. What special law? I guess the law should have been passed first, so that the sublaw provides for how the property is to be registered, or even to provide for those members who actually make up this law on the registration and registration of the seized property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I asked you yesterday, and several MPs of the SRS asked you, how do you think you can get back what you're taking away from the citizens of Serbia and, of course, without legal grounds. What you announce and deceive the people that you will return that property, it was a historical injustice, but it was taken away by some regulations. You're doing it now without a legal basis. You announce and do this freezing of property, for example, the property of the Hague indictees. You don't have a law that regulates it, but, my God, it's the will of the ruling majority and the ruling majority can do whatever they want, but it can't go as far as they want. There are many examples in Serbia of how you, in fact, lie to yourself and lie to citizens of Serbia, and now I mean the Serbian government when I say this. I'm going to mention one of the examples I almost met in the Raska area in Tutin. At the center of Tutina, five acres of land was taken away from one family and there were some facilities, I don't know hotels. It's down now. That's what Suleiman Ugljanin sells 50,000 euros for an ar. On the one hand, you promise to return the property, and on the other hand you allow such things to be done. You have to decide, ladies and gentlemen, when voting for this law and for the debate on amendments, when you haven't said that in a decade when it was spoken in principle, and in fact you all said that this law shouldn't and that this is a bad law. For reasons unknown to you, you will vote for this law. So, we say, unlike you, this law is unnecessary, this law is inadmissible, this law should not be passed, this law means nothing, not even to those who have thought the property should return, and by who knows which time I suggest, although the government's representative is gone again, tell him, if you see it, that it's not too late for this bill to pull out of the procedure and that we intend to do this really bad thing, of which there is nothing, that the National Assembly is discussing things that are of vital importance to the citizens of Serbia and to the state of Serbia of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14451	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14452	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the application and registration of seized property, by proposing that Article 8 of this Act be deleted. This member is now saying that the application of property is a condition for the return of property and does not constitute a requirement for the return of property, which suggests the fact that it is a technical regulation rather than a regulation that will be based on material law, so it points to the conclusion that it is a single legal project, a political pamphlet that represents a false pre-election promise of those who have promised to return the property to hundreds of thousands of people. So reporting property would in some way be an incidental question or a previous question of return of property, which of course is one legal nonsense, because it is possible for a congregational assembly to pass one law and commit another congregational convocation to pass another law that will regulate it, and that is exactly what is predicted and calls for the circumstance to be a complete legal nonsense and a law that absolutely cannot be applied. It is a completely unnecessary member who, if not deleted, would prejudge many questions of denationalisation, from the very return process to the issue of alienation, which is unacceptable and unacceptable. The question arises at all, and I am asking you MPs - what is the recording and reporting of property, if implementation and recognition of rights will be regulated by another law. That's why I'm talking to you. I wouldn't even go out for this pay phone if I didn't intend to convince you not to vote for this bill, but I still don't think you'll understand it, and that's why I'm talking to the public of Serbia -- if you adopt this law, the state will have enormous damage, which will be re-paid by this poor and tortured people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14453	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Petar Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14454	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a previous member, the motion suggested that the property register be kept by the Republic of Serbia's Property Directorate. If this bill were to be adopted, it would be most rational for local authorities to record and determine the local authorities, because you have municipalities, local self-government, and in the area and local self-government as well as municipal courts in most cases, and in the seat and district courts, in most cases there are regional archives, then immovableity cadasar services. This could also contribute to the fact that, in the most comprehensive and fastest manner, data are being sent to local self-government – with the fact that if this bill was adopted, the Republic would have information related to the adoption of this law, although we are not sure about it, and we believe that this member should be deleted because of this, the Republic Property Directorate would not have the technical possibility, nor has the legal authority to now list hundreds of thousands of citizens, their immovable and mobile property – which would certainly be both economical and rational, and the team before the local self-government owns that data and records, so that citizens and the easiest possible access to that data. You've heard what the SRS has to do with this law. I believe that this member should be deleted for the reasons stated by the MPs of the SRS. The SRS will never propose anything that is unrealistic, something that is impossible. We will propose such laws that can be applied in practice. Law-making - of which there is no benefit to the state or interest of our citizens. Therefore, it is necessary to pass effective laws, which will be applicable, and that the citizens of our country, based on these laws, exercise the Constitution and the laws laid down and guaranteed rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14455	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14456	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on the third day we are discussing the law, what is actually called the law and it is not in the right sense of words, and the question remains where is Mladjan Dinkic. These gentlemen, who are here and who are patiently listening to all this argument, do not have the authority to go out for a pay phone and that, in addition to this argument that the government gave us in writing on the rejection of the amendment, answers some of the questions asked. It is obvious that Deputy Minister Parivodic himself, realizing that the law does not make any sense, decided not to participate in the debate in particular. So, as Mladjan Dinkic is also concerned with figures that would be optimal to deprive former owners, in a situation in which the state is today, in a really very difficult economic situation – and also because of the fact that the average profit in Serbia is 15,000 dinars, and you know yourself that over two million people do not have that average profit today, while some have an extremely large and much more, and that official statistics have come out with the fact that the consumer basket is 20,000 dinars, therefore unattainable for this 15.000 average, which no one receives – then the question of what we are actually doing here and what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is deluding. Because if this is a waste of time and for the third day, for a reason, we convince you to withdraw what you have called by law from the procedure, clearly states Article 8 and Article 9. What kind of debate we've had, and here's the third day that's going on, we've come to article 8, which says that this is actually nothing. They played MPs like kids at the party and then nothing. What does Article 8 tell you? He says - the submission of a confiscation of property within the meaning of this law does not constitute a claim for the right to recover the seized property. And yesterday, Mr Tomislav Nikolic explained to you nicely that he, as well as that future, cannot refer to the heirs of those who once had this property for various reasons. Well, then, further on, that member says - already a condition for such a request to be filed in accordance with a special law. Because in article 10, you suggest that the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities also be governed by a special law. I ask you, but there is no one to answer here, because this other minister, realizing that the law was not well done, escaped, and Dinkic will not return and why you have proposed something like this to the National Assembly at all, and how many more special laws it is and how many of these natural persons will apply through this form to deliver it as Article 7 says - the sooner Mr. Koprivica, Mr. Jojic asked to be deleted - to the local authorities and organizations, and who knows how many of them are entitled to confiscated property. So, the essential thing is how much more of the law is going to be, because it's obvious that you don't predict that it's just one law on denationalisation, and when it is, and the question is when, because this deadline will certainly, that you're staying in power, as you won't stay, it would have gone through and moved away from 2006, but since you won't be able to decide then, there's nothing. The question remains why has it occurred to someone to play with the highest legislative body, to write something called the law in the 11 members, to distract the general public, the MPs and that it is not enough for you for three days to call this other one, Justice, or Dinkic to tell them to return it to their jurisdiction, to come and say someone on behalf of the Government, we are withdrawing the law from further proceedings. Therefore, Mr. Koprivica is absolutely right when, in the way that the Serbian Radicals did it for three days, he made it clear to you that the law is completely pointless. It was better that you put into the agenda some law that would affect the people's better living, that the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija were saved, that this was discussed by the National Assembly, that you were looking for a model to achieve the widest political consensus, that you had responsibility in leading the state and in caring for the people, than that you were distracting us with something that wasn't the law, and that this is not the law, but a way to carry out some kind of record, which, and it doesn't have to mean anything, is going to bring a pigeon writer, or someone is going to send the Internet, or a local authority and an organisation to keep that record, and then there's nothing. You can see for yourself that even those you promised in the election campaign to return their property are not satisfied with what you offer them. So they won't vote for you anymore because you didn't promise them that, we never promised them that, we were never as inclined as we never did with any structure of our society, to court ourselves before the campaign and to promise something that's impossible to implement. That's why, but it's not too late, we're on Article 8, even though the debate is coming to an end, you'd better withdraw the law and the Assembly doesn't say anything about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14457	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14458	The basic purpose, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is to regulate a particular area of social life. On the other hand, the amendments aim to amend the law or to put the proposer in a position to withdraw such a law from circulation. This law has no purpose at all. To record something that was once taken away, there has been a record in state institutions for a long time. Go to the Serbian Archives and check, go to every local self-government from whose territory the property has been taken from, and it has records. It's amazing that all the time, we've spent a week, you've been trying to get through this law, which doesn't mean anything, except that it makes more confusion, you show Serbian citizens that you intend to once pass a law that regulates the issue of denationalization, confiscation, etc. With this, it's nothing. There's one more thing. I was talking about dates last time, why March 9th, why not March 7th, why not March 9th, 1921, why not March 9th 1890, why not go backwards, because you've also led the citizens into a fat delusion. To repeat, on March 7th, Josip Broz Tito banned Serbs and Montenegrins from returning to Kosovo, and you will not even record, even with this law that serves you for the record, that before 9 March, more specifically on 7 March, Serbian citizens lost certain rights, the property rights they had. They were expelled by Mussolini, or his troops, by the Ballistics, by Tito, and as far as I'm concerned, there are no drastic differences between them and him, but I'd like to pull the parallel and see the difference between the current government and Joseph Broz Tito. On the other hand, an explanation of why the amendment is not accepted at the same time reveals the true essence of both this law and the government's position on this issue. He says the amendment is not accepted for reasons why this article does not prejudge any of the solutions to denationalisation. The law doesn't need to prejudge it, but it needs to be strictly determined. Therefore, this law does not solve anything. He further says, given that it is explicitly stressed that the submitted application does not also constitute a request for the return of the seized property; and why will the application be made, why will a man fill out that application when it does not represent anything, or a request that, possibly, if you have mercy, or you will not be able to do so, because democratic elections will soon wipe you out of the position you are in, and then perhaps some others will have to discuss it. So I come in, fill out my application, pay my taxes, describe what someone once took away from me while he was in power -- he doesn't represent anything. Then why fill in, why that 30th of June 2006 deadline? So the same will happen to those who endure and those who do not endure, in other words, will not accomplish anything. It says further, it is already only a condition for such a request to be filed under the provisions of a special law. That's where we come to the point. So, in addition to all the conditions that exist, you're putting in another additional condition, which is the application for the requisition of the property. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am really sorry that Dinkic is not here, and despite what I should tell him about this law, I would have had a lot to say to him, because I read his name here, I am sorry, what the MP Natasa Jovanovic says, which is not the spare minister there, therefore, Mr Parivodić, so that he can come out here nicely and explain the real purpose of this law to us. This doesn't mean anything to you, gentlemen of the Ministry, ask the chairman to take a 15-minute break, consult the Ministry, so withdraw this miracle from the law, because it doesn't mean anything, it takes time and money away from the MPs, and the next day, when it is adopted, it can be thrown into the waste basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14459	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14460	The text of the proposed Article 8 does not deserve to be contained in this bill, provided that you have defined that this law has the name of the Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets. All those in the ruling coalition who tried to convince us in this assembly that this bill does not prejudge anything about the possible return of the seized property, probably did not read this article. However, what is dangerous, I do not know how the Republic Secretariat of Law allowed such a bill to enter the assembly procedure, because if Article 1 is governed by what is the subject of this law, which is the registration and registration of property, then you cannot specify what this law does not mean. It is said that the submission of the confiscation of property within the meaning of this law does not constitute a claim for the right to recover the seized property. Why do you especially point out this, and then at the end of the sentence, you conclude that some future law will address the issue of return, compensation, but provided that someone has made the application in accordance with this law. So, in addition to uncertain events and uncertain situations in the future whether this material regulation will take place, you enter here a call for something that does not exist now, and the law when it is passed by its provisions does not treat the future possible and impossible situation. Furthermore, this new law cannot be the basis for this law, and you are about to interpret it in your outlines. So, you're confirming that you're prejudge some issues of vomiting taking away property or damages. If you are already reviewing some questions, then for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia you should be clear and say - the value of this property, which should be returned by some future law, is as much and so much. It is possible in physical form to return to the value of so much and so much. What can't be returned will have to be paid in cash. Whether through long-term bonds, whether or not in a different way, it amounts to so much and so much. The source of the funds for this is, of course, the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that budget is filled with citizens of the Republic of Serbia by paying taxes and other taxes. You have to make it clear how many citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be separated from the X-years you planned to settle claims under the future law of those heirs who count on a restitution. When you release that information, and then you would have to give another vision, that this heir who counts on getting it under this law, then you have to return everything he's got from the state, the state apartment, the social apartment and so on, because that's some kind of restitution, so when you put it all on paper, then go to the National Assembly and inform the citizens of the Republic of Serbia how much this pleasure will cost. So with this paper go up to some mountain, some village, where there are 50 people, so tell them, because of something that was done in 1945 and 1946, you have to pay in the name of the tax even so much; for whom; for the successor of Petar Petrovic, who has a claim to some immovableity in downtown Belgrade. When you survive that conversation, then come to us at the National Assembly with a bill of law. So, use the next few hours to figure out how long this debate will take and withdraw this law. Try not to tell anyone that you went with a project like this. This is a nebulous project, which will quarrel with everyone in the Republic of Serbia. It's easy for you to suggest, because you know you're not going to be a government, you're going to be in a fat extra-parliamentary opposition and laudin, and you're going to watch people fight in the streets here; which is why; because of a failed field trip how to correct a new injustice by correcting a historical injustice. You have not taken care of this, so be prepared to bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14461	The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully support Mr. Koprivica's amendment to Article 8. Proposal for a law on the recording of the seized property. However, I also support all previous amendments, as well as future amendments, because they are all better than the proposed bill. If you had any intention of doing this right, you would have passed a law on the return of the seized property. There is a very precise record of the seized property in the competent services, and we therefore consider this law to be unnecessary and non-applicable. However, it seems to me that there is a big robbery of Serbia and the Serbian people in progress, and that this law promises the people what you will not fulfill, because if you will, and you will not, you would pass a normal law on the return of property, so there would be no need for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14463	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14464	Dear MPs, as well as previous amendments, the amendment to Article 8 clearly shows that there is no legal or moral basis to propose such a law, let alone to discuss it, given the real situation, the difficult social and economic situation in Serbia. The current government does not seem to want to deal with key problems that pressure most Serbian citizens. On the contrary, such laws, as well as others that we have received as MPs, including many on the agenda of this session of the Serbian Parliament, should only allow for the further robbery of Serbia, the poverty of Serbian citizens, rather than for the sake of truth and justice, except for someone who is supposed to rule in Serbia, to prevent organised crime, which has fiercely attacked all pores of life. I need to ask the question where the government is, where are the current or competent ministries, the competent state authorities, where the measures are to ban or prevent further robbery, kidnapping. And instead of quickly and urgently passing a law on the confiscation of property, which is obtained every day by robbery and kidnapping from workers and citizens of Serbia, there is no law on confiscation. We get this bill, and I'm going to say a few examples of how it was committed, or whether it's a privatisation robbery involving bank leaders in Serbia, and that's the point that those who control the monetary-financial part directly participate in the robbery of Serbian citizens and workers. I mentioned the other day the company "Paljo Transport" King's and robbery and kidnapping that the majority owner, selling business space, did both to workers and to the state, selling more than 40% of the immovable property and 60% of the other assets, mortgaged first, second or third in these mafia banks. Meridian bank with such a majority owner concluded contracts for the purchase of three business premises in the Kingdom and opened exposures in the King in 15 days. What's Vlahovic's role in Meridian Bank? And today in the daily press, I read that Meridian's bank is preparing to sell to a group of French banks, probably at a high price, probably with this kind of business space, without talking about how they make money. Today's press says that the bank's most likely president in Serbia will be Bozidar Djelic. It's a string of robbery that's been going on since the start of privatisation, or property robbery. I'm going to give a second example, the same AD "Serbia" King's, a trading company, sold for nothing. Among the facilities that were sold there is a hotel nationalized in 1945, a few more restaurants in the city's nearest centre, and when a question was asked by workers and citizens of the city of Kraljev, why was the sale of nationalised property, the majority owner said it was a matter of state and municipality, that there was nothing to do with it and if the return of that property should be paid by the state or municipality. Many obligations have been imposed on Serbian citizens who had no basis, so a question can be asked on which grounds is imposed on all Serbian citizens for Dafina, Jezda, even for old foreign exchange savings, and no one has answered, nor has any criminal proceedings been brought to an end, to see who is responsible, who has committed these serious crimes and robbed some of those citizens who have been saving in these banks. Another example, "Tavo" from Gornji Milanovac, a giant food industry in Serbia and out of Serbia, was sold into indemnity in the tender to Brother Vuk Draskovic. The first meeting of Draskovic with workers in Gornja Milanovac was marked with the following sentence – so far you have worked to live, and from now on you will live to work. It's the essence of privatization, or robbery of workers. Since time is running out, just to read one strof of humiliated workers across Serbia, and this is a worker from AD "Serbia" Kraljevo, he wrote a song in four ceilings, entitled "At the site, known as privatisation, hope, businesses, the dying nation; workers in the column went to the site of the head down; after them, as executioners, agencies, brokers, bosses and states."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14465	The word has an MP, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14466	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the ministry, that before us the proposal for a law on temporary ban on the availability of property that was taken away from citizens after World War II, the Serbian Renewal Movement would support such a bill, but what we really consider to be a cartoon in front of us. The Serbian Renewal Movement consistently requires the withdrawal of the proposal for this law on the registration and registration of property because we find it illogical that the victims of the state prove that the state committed terror against them, which we are literally doing by this proposed law. Whoever dissuaded citizens has all the data on the seized property at their disposal, so it's pointless to build a database that already exists. Also, I'm asking the legislator to explain to me what he wanted with this article 8. That's what I'm saying because we support Mr. Koprivica's proposal to delete this member. As coalition partners, we can ask you to withdraw this bill and move on to the adoption of restitution laws. It may be easier for you to accept than the opposition Radical Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14467	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really don't know what this perseverance of the motionors and the government is about, because I think we're going to have an absolute consensus by the end of the debate in particular that this law doesn't lead to anything, that it's extremely bad. And the question really arises, why are we wasting our time discussing a law that questions whether it will be applied, and even if it is applied to what benefit it will bring to anyone, rather than, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we are dealing with much more important things here, such as a debate on the trust of the Government. A lot has already been said about this law, practically all parliamentary groups have declared that this law is not right. Some said they'd vote for the law, no matter what they thought of him. I don't know why that is, but I think it would be good, besides the opposition and ruling parties don't think this law is good, to hear what the Citizens' Association for Returning Taken Property of Belgrade thinks of this law. In a letter sent to all MPs, among other things, they also said this, as a large number of MPs have pointed out, and this is what we have, that this proposal in no way, in any way, has nothing to do with the restitution – the return of property to the citizens of Serbia. The bill only postpones the issue of return of seized property for some time and leaves conditions for the survival of enormous corruption and crime, the wealth of privileged individuals, supporters of various regimes, and deprives Serbia's budget of huge revenues. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we who are against this law say that the law is extremely bad, if those who want certain property returned to them also say that this law is neither essential, nor contentally related to the restitution, then I ask you who this law is for and what the purpose of this law is. We have seen from amendments to amendments, from members to members of the law that practically no member of the law is doing well. No one in the ruling coalition is going to come out for this pay phone to at least try to convince us that at least one member of this bill is right, and I would really have to ask you one more time to seriously consider all this. Maybe the best thing to do is to get this law out of the process right now, so we don't lose another two or three days on the amendment, but to get right to some smarter things to do. As regards the amendment itself to Article 8, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by MP Bozidar Koprivica, it asked that the said member of the law be deleted. Why? Because it is another one in a series of completely pointless members of this law, which says that the submission of a confiscation of assets within the meaning of this law does not constitute a claim for the return of the seized property or compensation for that property, but rather a condition that such a claim is made in accordance with a specific law. According to its essence, the norm contained in Article 8 is material and legal character. You have already said, and you have written this in the light of this law, that this law is purely a technical law, that it is a procedural nature, and when you look a little bit better at certain members, we see that in Articles 1, 2 and 3 there are provisions of a material legal character, which determines who has a right, or who will not have that right under any future law, which is completely pointless, and because this quasi-law that you want to adopt cannot oblige any next congregation majority, and also because you in fact want to deny this law any right that you insist on campaigning on citizens. That's what you did to Article 5, that's also done to Article 6, where, practically, only those who file an application by a given date will have the right, and then you say that even those who file this application will not have the right under future law, automatically, because this is not a request for vomiting, but will have to meet some new conditions. Practically, although this law has only 11 members, you are introducing new and new conditions for those who would eventually want to regain property in the future. It's amazing what conditions you're setting. The question arises whether you want to drive the citizens away and destimulate them to even apply under this law; whether you want to impose a condition on them in the future and run 100 meters below 10 seconds, jump 9 meters, or who knows what else you can think of. So I suggest you drop the dead end and tell the citizens that the property restitution law, in the sense that you promised over the last five years, can't be brought in, not because someone doesn't want it, that, of course, and the SRS, if there were any possibilities, would be very happy to do it, but budget options for it don't exist. Finally, since it is obvious that a sufficient number of MPs are not present in the O.R. to allow this debate to take place, Article 82(2) has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which says that at least a third of the MPs are required for the work of the National Assembly. I call on the chairman to, in accordance with Article 28 under which he is required to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, first establish a quorum or to pause until the conditions for the session are met.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14469	Please insert your cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, after we interrupt, we resume the session. Please, let's find the quorum first. I ask the Members of Parliament to put in their MPs' cards. Thank you. We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 8, which was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. Mr. Stamenkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14471	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP of the SRS, Mr. Koprivica, has tabled an amendment to Article 8. We have convinced you for several hours that this amendment should be adopted, i.e. to delete Article 8. You heard from your SPO coalition partners to agree with this amendment and that they will vote in favour of the amendment. In order to clarify the importance of this amendment to viewers, or Serbian citizens, I will read the text of the members of the law. "The submission of the confiscation of the property within the meaning of this law does not constitute a claim for the return of the seized property or compensation for that property, but a condition for such a claim to be lodged in accordance with a specific law. "We are good, we will record this property, but since we leave September-October from power, there will come radicals and some radicals solve these problems. Gentlemen, if you want something back, bring the law and don't expect any special laws, and don't use it for marketing or pre-election purposes. This looks like a "drunk grandmother flax" to me. Let's have fun, the more pointless laws the Assembly will last longer and this government will have more opportunities to pass similar laws that really don't make sense. I suggest we take a look around. It is that there is neither Dinkic nor Deputy Minister Parivodic, let's look at some of the more important problems. We had a case that one MP of the National Assembly asked for Kosovo's independence, let's at least fence from his statement, as the National Assembly. That's a lot more urgent. Or, let's discuss MOBTEL. This is where the Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the fight against corruption gave a report on the MOBTEL. Huge crime. Let's discuss it, it's much more important, let's discuss the state of the Roads Directorate, what the forestman was doing, what the robbery is, and what crime is there. Let's discuss a lot of other things. Let's get this over with, pull it back. We have concessions, there are huge frauds, let's talk about more important things in life. Gentlemen, I suggest you ask the President of the National Assembly to take a break from calling the responsible ministers and, in accordance with the agreement and request of the majority in the Assembly, withdraw this from the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14472	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) First Mr. Milajić, then MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has tabled amendments to all members of this law, contesting it as a whole, including an amendment to Article 8, which provides that the submission of a confiscation application does not constitute the right to return of that property, but rather a condition that such a request is submitted in accordance with a special law. This means that there is absolutely no right to this law, but only a condition is obtained that some future law will regulate the rights of those people who are deprived of property by applying. So, in order for someone to apply, they must first be recorded, and only in some special procedure will the other law, which has not yet been passed, see if that person meets or does not meet the conditions for recovery of the seized property. Since the third day we are discussing the bill, that neither Minister Dinkic nor Minister Parivodic, who replaces him, are present, shows the government's lack of interest in this bill and whether it will pass or not. It shows one more thing, and that is that they themselves are insecure about it, in the quality of this law and whether this law meets some basic conditions, or whether this is a law of pro-forma, which is proposed only to be passed on to the voting body and that, in some ways, at least partially meet the pre-election promises, and above all by the DSS. That is still to say the presentation of the SPO MPs who supported our amendment. The SPO, if I'm not mistaken, is in the ruling coalition. This shows that we are right to submit amendments to all members of this law, including Article 8, as well as that MPs from the ruling coalition, in particular the DSS MPs, do not report for a word at all, are not trying in any way to deny the facts of the SRS MPs. This also shows that SPS MPs do not go out for this pay phone and are not trying to defend this bill. What does that show? It shows that there is stubbornness in the ruling coalition and that at all costs they vote this law, although they are aware that the law is not right, that it is not good and that it does not solve anything. This shows that the ruling coalition in simple spite will not accept the reasoned SRS proposals and amendments we have tabled on the bill. But the stubborn was never good, and he usually turned his head on the one who was pushing spite. The problem is with this recording both in Articles 8 and in the formal legal nature. The laws don't give negative definitions, like in this case, what can't or shouldn't. The law needs to give positive definitions, so it needs to regulate what it can, and it is extremely resorting to that method of defining what it does not include or what it does not. The registration left a broad possibility to record all the moving and immovable things that have been taken away on various grounds, starting with agrarian reform, confiscation, expropriation, nationalisation, sequestration and other ways of confiscation of property. There have also been confiscation of property by administrative procedure during the Informburo, where people are sentenced to long-term prison sentences under a reduced procedure, and as a secondary sentence, they have been given a sanction of confiscation of property. If we remind ourselves, not so long ago, there were also committees to examine the origins of the properties of the 1960s and 1970s, and these commissions also took away someone's property, whether they were founded or unfounded -- that's another question, but what we certainly know is that this law leaves a wide circle of persons the possibility of registering their confiscated property, and it certainly doesn't belong to them. First of all, I mean...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14474	Mr. Milajić, five minutes and 30 seconds, please finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14475	Here, I'm done. First of all, I think of those who belonged to the Quislin armed formations, and they certainly don't deserve to be covered by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14476	Thank you very much. The word has been delivered by MP Branislav Rankic, please, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14477	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 8, as well as previous amendments and those to follow, speaks of our desire to persist in our intention to convince the Proposer to withdraw this proposal. But, as far as the promoter does not participate in the discussion in particular and does not want to explain the advantages that this law may have, it is evident that they are also insisting on keeping this on the agenda. Well, Article 8 reads like this, "The submission of a confiscation of property within the meaning of this law does not constitute a claim for the return of the seized property or compensation for that property... "Well, here's the real question -- and what does it really mean to file a confiscation claim? Since it is not a request for achievement, what does it essentially represent? Finally, it is said to constitute a condition for such a request to be filed in accordance with some law that will be passed. It's a condition, but I'll remind you that this is not a sufficient condition. In order for this condition to be sufficient, members of the 7th and units of local self-government, i.e. a state body or institutions at the regional or republican level, must also possess data on the property that has been seized. And since this is not the only condition, then the question is asked -- and what is the essential purpose of even submitting these applications? It will be about that the promoter knows that institutions at the state level, the province or the republican, or the authorities, have data and recorded the total amount of assets seized during the period that the law provides, but now it is going to show who will eventually fill out the applications by 30 June next year, and, of course, those who do not do so will be considered as not even taken away from them, because this will not apply to them. I will remind you of one situation, in some parts of Serbia there is a custom, which may not be the best, but it is the custom for the deceased to be buried with some important personal documents. And, believe me, a large number of those documents that need to show ownership, i.e. the confirmation of the seized property, have long rotted and their descendants or legal heirs will not even have the opportunity, even though they are aware that their assets have been taken away, that they even file such a claim for restitution, that is, a claim taken from them. And to those who, however, manage to preserve, or have preserved such paper, evidence of the seized property, and who fill out this application, it will mean nothing to them, because the authorities of local self-government, or state or regional authorities or institutions, will have to compare it to the data they have. And what happens if someone submits a request and, say, the local self-government authority, because you know for a fact that the operation and work of certain people in local self-government bodies is often illegal or often unconscious, and let's say the authorities of the local self-government have the information in their records of the seized property, and there's a complete application for records, or a record of the confiscated property, and that someone who works in that body takes and removes that evidence that exists in the body of the local self-government unit, removes evidence that some property has been taken away. It means that despite everything that belongs to him for the return of property, this man will be virtually denied because someone will abuse their position and remove the papers that prove that such property has been taken away from that rightful heir or descendant who seeks to recover such property. This provides a large number of opportunities for the abuse of what you have declared as a right that will not be possible in the future, or perhaps only those who are sympathetic to you will be able to achieve it, and only those who have and enjoy the favor of certain state authorities and institutions at different levels. So really, when you see how much we insist on you pulling this back, you should withdraw it because you don't have any documents to prove that what you've offered is important to us and that this looks like the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14478	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes that the amendment should not be accepted, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14479	Article 9 of this Act provides that the legal basis and the law relating to the return of property and the compensation on the basis of the disbursed property will be governed by a special law, and in paragraph 2, the application for the exercise of rights may only be lodged if the transfer of property is filed by 30 June 2006. So this is where the reporting of assets and the application for a claim for the exercise of rights on the basis of the seized property is bound. On the occasion of the previous amendment, I mentioned that this law did not provide for restrictions on persons who could report the seized property, as shown in Article 9, on which the amendment was submitted by the SRS, which I represent. We believe that there must be restrictions and above all in terms of citizenship. It is permitted here that the German national minority, which, according to the last census, before World War II, was numbered 500,000 from 1939, and in 1945, 495,000 were expelled and there were only 5,000 Germans left. There were 5,000 Germans left who were sure they weren't in the Vermaht units and the German armed forces of any kind. Everyone else has been expelled and their assets have been confiscated. However, the communist government, which did so in 1945, did not do so on its own. With the Paris Peace Treaty, the winners gave the green light to the countries that were in the winning coalition, and our country belonged to these, and Joseph Broz had the green light to confiscate the property of all the participants of the occupation forces. So it wasn't done on its own. It was done on the basis of an international legal act, meaning an international contract, and on the basis of this international legal act, a decision has been made to confiscate the assets of occupier associates, primarily the Germans who lived in Vojvodina, and there are only 5,000 left. However, these exiled Germans, about 500,000 of them living on the 1939 census, most of them are not alive, but their successors are alive. There will be a huge number of their successors who will submit a proposal, in fact a list of their assets taken from them in 1945, and you will have to solve this problem after a special law. This problem will be multiplier and it will be a really big problem, because in this special law that you provided for Article 9 that it will be passed after the registration, after a deadline of 30 June 2006, you will hardly be able to limit the right of foreign citizens to apply for restitution, or for the exercise of that right, precisely because this basic law did not limit who could be registered with this law. It is simply immoral, it would not be in line with justice and justice, that property is returned to someone who was truly a war criminal and who committed war crimes in these areas, which are primarily members of the German national minority, Ustasha in Srem, Horti's Hungarians; they will all have the right to submit claims for the return of property. I'm asking you all here in the Assembly if we're going to allow these people, in fact, their heirs, their descendants, to return their property. In order to know the orderly size of the problem, you must also know that according to the seized property in Vojvodina, on a variety of grounds, whether it is confiscation, nationalisation, agrarian reform, in third place the Serbian Orthodox Church and even religious communities that exist on the ground of Vojvodina. There were other towers, so-called. The towers, and the people who went to the Earth's maximum, and in the first place they were folks. According to statistical data, 38.75% of the total seized land and property that was related to that country belonged to foxdoers, that means almost 40%, and 60% is everything else, so you'll have a big problem if you adopt this law in this text as you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14480	The People's MP Verica Radeta came forward, so the MPs Momir Markovic, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Zoran Krasic, was fine, I saw.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14481	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, all amendments by the MPs of the SRS Group and all our discussions represent, above all, the principled position of Serbian radicals on denationalisation as an impossible mission. In addition, we have been trying to convince you for several days that the law on the registration and registration of the seized property, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has given to consider this Parliament, is a completely pointless text, an unnecessary law. When we got to Article 9. The bill, proposed by counterpart Vojislav Milajic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, must then be pointed out here how much all this senselessness of this law is contained in this Article 9 which is legally impossible. This member couldn't possibly be an integral part of this or any law. It is impossible, I suppose, never seen in legal practice, that a law prejudges solutions in a future law. How can this law dictate what a future law will do? Will that law ever be? If there is, what will be the legal solution? It is amazing that this Article 9 has passed through the Legislative Committee, because we have had many times the opportunity when this Assembly committee, when it declares some amendment legally impossible, and has allowed a truly legally impossible member of the law to come to this Parliament. Of course, the question is, how could he come from both the government and the government's legislative committee? The government's explanation of why this amendment is rejected is at least insurmountable. It is said in the first position that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is precisely the purpose of adopting this law to make it certain and determine the value and volume of the property seized, and hence the size of the government's obligation on that basis. How many times do we have to tell you, I guess you know it yourself, that all of this knows what's provided for in this law, that all of this data exists, that we have land books, that we have a cadasar of immobilities, that we have municipal authorities, that we have courts, and all of these organs have their own archives, and all of these data is known and available to whoever dares to try to return something that was once taken away. I've said it several times and I'll repeat it again, and you won't do it either, you're distracting the citizens of Serbia, unlike us Serbian radicals, who have always made our position clear, and you've always made it clear to voters that there's nothing from denationalisation, that this job can't be done, that there's no legal basis for such a thing, and we've never thought about whether people who expect this to return to their elections will show their electoral will in their own way. You take care of it, but in the wrong way, incorrectly. You promised Serbian citizens that you would pay them back their property, and now you propose to pass a law that represents nothing, to record something that already exists. Indeed, there is still time for the Serbian government to withdraw this law. In addition to the fact that the whole law is pointless, this Article 9 is legally impossible. It's unacceptable, it's unacceptable, it's never been seen that one law prejudges solutions from a future law. The issue is also the parliamentary majority at the time of the adoption of this future law, it is also a question of some other governments to pass this law if it is, it is a matter of some new parliamentary majority's political views. So, once again, I urge you, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to inform the Prime Minister that all MPs are intimately against this bill, and that Serbian radicals will vote publicly against the law, and let this law be withdrawn. Of course it is a shame, you comment on this speaker, because it would really be nice for a representative of the ruling coalition, the DSS representative, who says it's a shame we won't vote for this law, to come out and say a clear position of his party on this law, because we haven't heard it yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14482	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic on the same amendment. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and just an explanation of the government why this amendment is not accepted shows the very essence of the law and of your future intentions and plans. Article 9 states: "The legal basis and the right to return property or damages on the basis of the seized property declared under the provisions of this law, as well as the procedure for the request for the return of the property seized or the compensation for that property, will be governed by a special law. "What, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you adopt, because you will have a majority, and you will adopt this law on records, and the law on the return of a new assembly or this one, in the amended system alone, does not adopt? What will happen to all those who filed records and exposed themselves to expenses and so forth? "The application for the exercise of the right under the special law laid down in Article 1 may only be lodged if the application of the seized property has been lodged within the time limit laid down in Article 6 of this Act. "You said: 30 June 2006. What happens on July 1, 2006, what about those that this law doesn't possibly reach, they're heirs, and they're somewhere from Canada to Australia? Putting in an unequal position; even when it comes to registering property, you put an unequal position on the part of the Serbian citizen. There's one more thing. A much smarter government of Serbia would have acted if it had recorded all the assets of Serbs exiled from Kosovo and Metohija. You are waving at the feasibility study, and the fact is that Kosovo and Metohija are not in the study. Does this mean that what Goran Svilanovic, the traitor, thinks many members of the government are about to say? Does this mean that tomorrow you will quietly accept that part of Serbia's national territory, part of the Serbian cradle, will be torn off because you will receive confirmation of a study? Does that mean that I was right when I first said that you traded Kosovo for one piece of paper? It's coming back. The government of the Republic of Serbia would have done a lot for the Serbian nation if it had asked for a list of the property of Serbs expelled from the centuries-long hearths of Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska, I do not want to talk about it, we have Mr. Buh's MP, I suppose he will talk about it, but you would have done a lot more if you had written about it. The unique answer is why the amendment to Article 9 does not adopt, but applies to all members of the law, including all amendments. "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this bill only records the seized property, which means that it does not provide for any act aimed at the availability of the property. "What act do you plan to bring to the disposal of the property, which will be arranged for the return of the property? This is one big fog you released in front of the Serbian people, trying to play Mother Teresa, and there's nothing you can do, there's nothing you can do, there's really nothing you can do, and I really think it's about time you thought of taking this bill out of the agenda, that you're not distracting the public of Serbia anymore, or our MPs. And when you have time to think about it, because the election feels in the air, if you ever intend to give something back, then make a bill that we'll vote on. One more thing, since the Serbian government has decreed its regulations to block the retail assets of all those UN war crimes indictees who are not voluntarily surrendered, in slippers, pajamas and without glasses to The Hague, will these Hague indictees, who apparently have the property to register that this state, under your authority, has deprived them of their right to have the right to property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14484	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to article 9 submitted by a colleague from the SRS, Vojislav Milajić, in which we as a parliamentary group ask that this member be deleted, as well as both views of the member himself, speak of the very nature of this law. That's where you can see all the nonsense. It doesn't just take the good will of you from the ruling coalition to pass some law in this National Assembly, it is necessary that this law precisely regulates matter. Only if you want to and if you want to pass the law just to bring as many laws as possible. The draft law on recording simply will not be applicable in practice. That's what you see in this article 9, where you're talking about how it's going to be arranged by some special law. You will pass some special laws later, precisely on the basis of this bill, which you will likely vote under the pressure of your promises, which you have told Serbian citizens in the pre-election campaign. The point is that the compensation of former owners will not be possible in both material and moral terms. First of all, states that are much stronger economically, such as Germany, which has passed this law and ten years has already implemented this law, and around 93% of the former owners have managed to compensate, but they were mostly sums of less than 10,000 German marks. The essence of your proposal for a law on the application and registration of the seized property is that, allegedly through this story in the Assembly and the minister who explained this bill here, you would talk about returning property and correcting injustices after World War II. In fact, the law is extremely inaccurate and there is only one reason: the media promotion of the ruling coalition, because you were saying in the campaign that you would pass one of these laws. In reasons to pass laws, the government of the Republic of Serbia cited the regulation of the rights of former owners, whose assets were seized after World War II. The point is whether or not you will and how you will limit this article's return to a special law. So you won't be able to limit the rights of foreign citizens, which means you'll be able to make demands and those declared war criminals, or their successors who no longer live here. That way, as you say, you want this bill to correct the injustice, and you're going to do, you're going to cause some new injustices with this bill. Compensation of former owners in a material and moral sense can be carried out in a completely different form. This law that you have proposed has more media character, not the essence of this matter being solved. The SRS has clearly submitted amendments to all nine, that is, these first nine members, to the full law, and we have asked for it to be deleted, because it is not well-conceived, because it makes no sense because one member is pushing the other. Here, for example, in this position of Article 9, Article 9, it is said: "The application for the exercise of the right under the special law laid down in Article 1 of this Article can only be submitted if the application of the seized property has been lodged within the time limit laid down in Article 6 of this Act. "So the relationship with Article 6, in Article 6 of the Liaison with Article 3 and so on. All in all, when we look at all that you've been saying and the MPs who have defended this law are obviously not and do not want to accept the fact that this matter, which you wanted to run in the National Assembly, cannot be solved in this way. The Serbian Radical Party will vote against this bill of registration and registration of the seized property, which the government has submitted to the National Assembly, for all the reasons we have cited for this speaker, saying in the past few days of the assembly session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14486	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14487	Not only is it pointless but it is not in accordance with the Constitution, nor is it with the law that any draft law, which the proposer says is a technical regulation, is prejudged by some of the solutions that will contain the material law. This is practically happening in almost all members of this bill, and the contradiction and incompatibility between Article 8 and Article 9 is so obvious that probably the promoter concludes that something here is excess. What is dangerous in this concept, the programme and the plan, as the government has concluded, and this is the step by step, where it clearly says that the first step is to record property and potential parties. This concept is dangerous, because the legal-technical thing that's in Article 9 seems unmistakable. Imagine, the technical regulation says – legal basis and rights will be governed by another special law. It turns out that this law is the basis for some other law, that this law technically suggests what happens to some other law if it is passed. I don't know how the Republic Secretariat of Legislatives could have had this failure, let go of a congregation procedure like this unbulful text. If there is no legal basis, then there is no legal basis for technical regulation either. How it is possible to regulate registration by law, and it is not known what is the material regulation from which certain rights and obligations originate. We don't know what the party's right is, we don't know what the state's obligation is, and we don't know who the state's competent authority is within the state to follow a regulation that needs to be passed, but that's why the government is far-reaching thinking and regulating the application as part of the procedure. Registering and recording assets is part of a single operation procedure you call restitution. So, you've done something impossible. That's about to make it clear to the general public, as if the government had said, who jumps 10 meters into the air can count on something. Is it possible to jump 10 meters up? Kostunica's government could probably jump 20 meters up. Of course, nothing costs when you promise. Everything can be written. You've written elections abroad, so you've seen 800 people. You changed the law, we warned you here, we begged you not to change it, don't introduce it, there are bad experiences. No, you will at any cost, then political tourism, not to order any further regulations that you have changed and of course missed. The government made a mockery, made a mockery of it. Come on, you're embarrassing the government, you're embarrassing the state. Whoever was thinking about getting involved in this restitution process had to have one financial projection of what was going on. He has to plan something, so to say – the obligations of the state under the future restitution law are so much and so much, the sources of restitution funds are existing immovableities in this and that amount, the rest of the money, bonds, securities, securities of value, action, it doesn't matter, and with this complete project comes out before the National Assembly and the Serbian public. Not here. This is where the rye was put, and the rabbit's in the woods. The government has corned and will end up in a pot. Under this law, if you vote by the majority, be assured that you will not be comfortable when you go out on the street because you will experience disdain and those citizens who recognize in a future law their obligation to pay more taxes so that some heirs will get something, but they will be dissatisfied and heirs because they did not get what you promised them. This is just one DOS-reglame, DOS-records, to corn, to catch the connection. What's the connection to? In your study, which you count on time in the Republic of Serbia, there is no restitution anywhere. The other day I read international standards in this area, there's no obligation. Further, think of only one thing, that by any chance there is more SFRY in this territory, you would by this law return property and Stepinac, and Anti Pavelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14488	The word has an MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 9. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Milajic submitted the draft law on the application and registration of the seized property. This amendment requires the removal of Article 9. In any other way, it was absolutely not possible to fix this member, as it is not possible to fix this law in general because, as we have shown it in a very clear way, it is bad from the first to the last member and certainly that, if it is ever in legal traffic, it will be the only really big ballast for us, and I trust you, too. It is unclear what is thought when it is said that the legal basis for the return of property or damages on the basis of the disbursement of property declared under the provisions of this law, as well as the procedure in the application for the right to return, will be governed by a special law. What does the Proposer mean to us, and how is it possible for you to determine that the legal basis will be determined by some future law? You are the legal basis for the return of property, regardless of whether it is a confiscated, expunged or confiscated property in any other way, you have to know already in advance, because unless you know what the legal basis for the return of property under any future law, how you could at all pass this technical law and arrange a procedure based on which to register the confiscated property, and you still don't know what it is in Article 9 of this Act and you confirm whether or not there is any legal basis for any law to be passed tomorrow and that this property is returned to us. In this way, as you've done, it's practically devised by this Article 9th whole law, because it turns out that today we're discussing something, about the passing of a law, and then more than a year, or by July 1, 2006, you're going to be recording this property, which is going to cause huge costs. Then, you have to carry out an assessment of the value of that asset, which is likely to be set up in the nearer or slightly further future by an evaluation agency and taken away property, which will cause even greater costs, so that eventually one of you can find that there is no legal basis for the adoption of the law on restitution, which is formally your goal, there is no legal basis. So this is completely non-serious. It is unclear why a member insists that only under this law can certain rights be lost, and that no one who makes use of their right, or fulfils the obligation under this law, will receive absolutely no right, nor does that mean that this is a claim for recovery of property. Then it's extremely unclear what you wanted with this law to achieve. Whether it's a citizens' distraction, whether you wanted this state administration of yours to hire, whether you wanted to supplement the budget a little bit with new taxes. Those who wish to fulfill their rights and fulfil their obligations under this law will be exposed to a number of costs, and to go to a place where they need to take out certain documents, and to the great costs in the cataster and in the land books, by looking for copies of solutions that were made 50-60 years ago and over, and you offer absolutely nothing to them in return. You in several places in this law say that you do not guarantee whether something will be or what will be in the next period. That is why I propose once again to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14490	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see you've been quiet, because you're probably counting when two hours, you've done a lot of work today, I'm thinking of you from so-called. The ruling majority. But to use this time to 1400 hours to try to get you to give up this law by making an additional argument. Especially you who are calling for legalism, how can you, after all that you have been told by colleagues Krasic and Mr Milajic, the applicant for the amendment, claim that this has any legal basis. There isn't. It may be this Article 9 which states: "The legal basis and the rights relating to the return of property or damages on the basis of the property seized under the provisions of this law (I would say quasizacon), as well as the procedure for the request for the return of the seized property or the compensation for that property, will be governed by a special law"; and you are referring to this deadline that you have given in Article 6. This may be a constitutional provision for you, but no one has informed you. If this is not incorporated into the future constitution, which you are obviously unable to bring, it is simply amazing that you claim, under this current constitution, that such a retroactive provision and such a law can exist. He can't. So here are three essential things. First, the way that records are done. The question above all is the date you took as a deadline, i.e. you took into account 9 March 1945, when someone could go to the authorities and organizations, as you wrote here, the Republic of Serbia, the local self-government unit, to look for what was taken away. Again, questions are raised as to who these individuals are, what is their number, and how you have come to the fact that, hypothetically speaking, you also need these three million dinars for this poll that will be thrown in vain. If you don't know what the face number is, and that number is different from the association to the association, those who protested yesterday say it's one. In Kragujevac, there is a League for the Protection of Private Property, which Veroljub Stevanovic pledged to resolve the issue of denationalisation with his god-awful reputation as head of the parliamentary group, now in the bristle. I can see he's been gone these past few days to come by and say anything. This Private Property Protection League has put into this coalition, which, unfortunately, the citizens of Kragujevac, is disastrously ruling our city. Even the president of the League won the vice-presidential seat in the Kragujevac City Assembly, all for the promise that denationalisation will take place very quickly and that this Kostunica government will do so. As you can see, you are in no condition to do so. It's absolutely amazing that even those you promised, and whose voices you've counted on and cheated on, you're still deluding them by such a bill. If all of them, and it does not need great legal knowledge, but to open and read the Constitution, it is clear that there is no such thing in the Constitution and that it is impossible to implement it in action, which is why you are harassing this one representative of the Ministry to sit here for days, and I think that he is intimately convinced that this is inconclusive and that this law does not make any sense. Therefore, only when we talk about Article 10 and our initial claim that such a bill will require the adoption of not one more, but much more, the question of how many laws, because in article 10, we are talking about the seized property of the SPC, you may understand, but since I see that you do not follow and do not listen at all, but only to pass the time, and you say, what is it to these radicals and come out this much and explain it. Well, someone has to explain it to you. If you've been deluding yourself for 15 years with some idea that you can do it, unlike us, especially our president, who's been saying since the beginning of the multi-party that it's impossible to do it and that there's no basis in the Constitution, that there's no legal basis and that there's no way to find out what it is and who these heirs are, then you'd better understand that you've made a mistake in your operation. As you've figured out, probably because of the growing number and reputation you have among the voters 15 years ago, and when you were an opposition and now you're exercising power. And say it's inconclusive. Be honest with yourself once, if you are not used to being honest with voters, whose trust you have been counting on. Because of these moves and such deceptions and lies, and everything you've done back so many years, especially now that you're not so clumsy, but you're completely incompetent to power, you're going to lose it soon. It's quite clear what we're saying - that this can never be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14492	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We move on to the next amendment. Since it's two minutes to 1400 hours, we'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue our afternoon work today's session. There are 105 MPs present on the official record. Please determine the quorum. Please insert the parliamentary cards into the electronic voting system units. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We're moving on to the agenda. National MP Milan Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 9a be added after article 9. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. At the same time, I am obliged to inform that the government has accepted two amendments. Here you go. Give me the card, be nice, I'll get it. Here you go. This is a little help.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14494	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, after a few days we came to the end of the examination of this bill of registration and the recording of the seized property. We of the DS have invested a number of amendments that are possible, we felt, correct this bill, to make it so that we can vote for it. In fact, you know that in the public, and in political parties, the issue of the adoption of laws on the registration and registration of assets has been disputed, as Serbia, as a state, is late in the process of restitution in relation to all other countries in the environment. So, according to the logic of the matter, the issue of restitution is being raised as a couple of excelling questions about political developments in Serbia. Mr. President, I think it's very difficult to speak... (President: Be kind, continue, I will warn. Please enable the MP to contact you. Here you go. ) So, we had a dilemma in general about how to in principle ask according to the idea that the issue of restitution is being resolved, in a way, in two steps. First, to go with the application and registration of the seized property, and then the restitution law itself. I've already made that point. The DS has an understanding of this approach, although probably, like most of us here, we'd like that approach not to be in two steps. However, we felt that, if two steps are already being taken, that is, if it is going through the reporting and recording of the assets, it is necessary to take certain actions, i.e. to foresee certain mechanisms that would make the whole process significantly more specific on the part of the users of the future restitution. In this regard, we have proposed a number of amendments, and as you know, these are amendments to the issue of regulations to which the restitution process will apply tomorrow, and through the issue of the certificate, which has been accepted and I am pleased about it, as well as that the registry is being conducted as a public electronic database, and what the government has also accepted and I am also expressing satisfaction. Until our final and final amendment, which is the key to determining our position under this law, is to ban the availability of that property that has been recorded. We suggest that all those who receive confirmation that they have recorded their assets, such as property that has been in use since 1946 and further been subject to the confiscation by the regulations that we have stated, that all those with that certificate can prohibit the availability of that property, or influence that their assets are no longer available, either through sale or through long-term lease. We have therefore submitted an amendment which reads as follows: "The property of state and social property entered into the Register cannot be subject to alienation within two years of the date of entry into force of this law. Contracts on the lease of assets referred to in Article 1 may be concluded for a period of one year. "We think this is very important, since we are aware that from the moment of adoption of this law, until the moment of restitution, it will be a certain time. We think that time could be misused, or many could abuse, and now they can't say that they're dumping traces of property that can be subject to restitution, but simply make that restitution impossible by making legal traffic possible, perhaps two or more times from today to the day of the return of property. I mean, what can be returned in the existing form, I don't mean the cash fee. We also think that all interested restitution users who are dissatisfied with this way of passing laws, or this system, would in this way simply be partially satisfied, because they would understand the seriousness of the state to approach the solution to this problem. After all, I think that this way the state would reduce its work and any problems that could arise when there really is a restitution. In our amendments, we have predicted that this procedure should be a little faster than is foreseen by the bill. We thought it was enough six months to make an application and register property and that after that, a restitution law could be passed. The fact that the deadline here is far longer and there is no ban... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... At its disposal, it is concerned that this law is not yet the initial first step towards correcting this injustice that was done decades ago to the citizens who were deprived of the property. I call on you to accept this amendment in the voting day and prohibit the availability of the property that has been seized under all the laws... (President: Thank you. )......................................................................................................... Which we're generally talking about is nationalized. Thank you, and I apologize for the time we've been over.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14495	Here's a word from MP Petar Cvetkovic on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14496	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for letting me... Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14497	Replica? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14498	Yes, replica, I've been mentioned. Mr. Markovic is unhappy. Seeks to speed up the process i.e. the adoption of a law on the return of property. Mr. Markovic forgets that they were three years old and some even more. They didn't do anything. They had legal procedures. The government works and practically raises the issue of return of property, but probably by momentum they want by criticising and alleged difficulties in the government's position to score some political points. Mr. Markovic, since you called me, I reacted, because you had the chance, absolute authority, so absolute, and anti-constitutional and supremacy that you could have countered the possibility of seducing an emergency, arresting people, so I suppose you could have returned that property. Otherwise, this is your pledge completely transparent, an effort to speed up the privatisation process, I won't tell you personally but your party, if it wasn't a brake, could at least have done it much earlier in 2001, when it was much easier to pass the law. This government is in a much more difficult position because it has withdrawn privatisation. It's much harder to pass the law now than it was in 2001. It would therefore be more favourable for you to definitely support the insistence and proposal of this law, as I expect you to, and support, because that is exactly the basic solution - to move forward in the return process, and when the property is fully returned, it will depend on the possibility of a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14499	Thank you, Mr. Cvetkovic. On the occasion of the same amendment is the word of the People's Messenger Marko Krstin, and the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. To avoid confusion, this replica referred to Milan Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14500	Gentlemen, I believe that the amendment that this is about means the addition of a new Article 9a is one of the amendments that should allow this law to be applied and that it guarantees better legal certainty for people who expect their property to be returned. This government is going to return that property. This government advocates returning the property and this amendment, i.e. accepting amendments, would make time easier for those who expect to return the property, that is, to wait until this property is returned. This amendment will not solve all questions universally. We now have a good number of these assets that are already located in someone who is no longer a state, meaning that it has already changed property, but at least for that property located in the hands of the state it will guarantee that it will not change the owner, which, on the one hand, will make it easier for the owners to get their property back, and on the other hand, make it easier for the state not to pay for it from other funds, and what is particularly important - to achieve one system solution, that the return of property is always and mainly done in nature and not in money. I'm just going to point out that the basic principle of compensation is the damage that seems to be done in nature, and only if that's impossible in money. That is how this amendment should be supported and I call on the Government to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14501	Thank you, Mr. Christin. Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14502	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment of counterpart Milan Markovic is unacceptable for the SRS parliamentary group. This amendment is a confirmation of everything that we of the SRS have been talking about for four days when it comes to this bill of registration and the recording of the seized property. This amendment confirms that this government is the continuity of the previous government. Both of you, without any restrictions, are at your disposal or at your disposal of this state or social property. On the other hand, you tell empty stories that you intend to return it. The limitation provided by counterpart Markovic, that property in state and social property entered into the register cannot be subject to estrangement within two years of the date of entry into force of this law, then the lease agreements may be concluded for the longest period of one year, from a legal point of view, are exactly the same as the Article 9 to which this amendment applies. As Article 9 does not have a legal basis, there is no constitutional basis, nor is there any amendment to Article 9a or to a new Article 9a, nor does it have a legal basis, nor does it have a constitutional basis. Both, meaning the basic law and this amendment, prejudge the solution of a future law. And how does Mr. Markovic now know that this new property return law will be passed in two years? Is there any deal between the current ruling coalition and looks future - I don't know, but if there is no such agreement, then a colleague must be psychic. Why does he think this law will be passed in two years? Why won't it be sooner? Why won't it be after? Does it have anything to do with that deadline I was talking about yesterday, and about the date until when that once-deprived property should be reported? This remains unclear because of course we haven't had a government representative in two or three days. Perhaps if he were here, he would answer these really unexplained questions. The amendment cannot be accepted. At least we in the SRS will not vote for this amendment, because it is unacceptable for the amendment MP to resolve a future law issue, which is neither in the procedure nor in its draft, nor in the proposal, nor do we know whether such a law will ever be passed. On the contrary, we know that you have neither the strength nor the will to go out with such a law in front of the National Assembly, because if you had the will to do so, then perhaps today, instead of this law, we would really be discussing the law on the return of property. Since you haven't done it yet, you won't do it from now on. I repeat again -- this is a pre-election campaign of MPs of the ruling coalition, and it is obvious that DS MPs are joining, and I really want to stress that both were in opportunity, for the fifth year has been almost, since that property, that they really wanted to, could have been returned. On the contrary, in these nearly four and a half or almost five years, everything that could have been sold out was sold out and there was really no possibility left, even if it were to be, that one such law would be passed. So this amendment is pure demagogy. Once again, I would like to emphasise the principled attitude of the SRS - we are not in favour of adopting a law on denationalisation. We never were and we never will be. Obviously neither are you, but you're just trying to fool Serbian citizens with this law, or this amendment, which means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14503	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Replication to your presentation, Mr. Milan Markovic, which is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14504	I'd just like to explain something about Mrs. Rade's findings that it's demagogy. I can only say that I don't see how someone can forbid me to talk about what's on the agenda. The previous assembly considered 1,193 proposals for acts, and it is normal that it could not exhaust all legislative matter in Serbia from 2000 onwards. Legislative matter will also be in 2001, 2010 and 2015, and this does not mean that in 2015 someone will have to come out here and tell some DSS MP why you did not say that in 2003. As far as law-making is concerned, why haven't we passed the law in 2000, I don't know. Dragan Marsican, one of the leading members of the DSS, was parliament speaker and I really don't know why he didn't put the law on the agenda. So, I don't even know what the method of discussion is if I have some amendment here and I want to say what I think about the bill, what is the way of the discussion for you to go out here and act like that? If you can't control yourself and control your hatred for the DS, then say it, but I don't see how you think we're seriously discussing bill proposals if you act that way. As for your presentation, Mrs Radet, that it is demagogy, it is not demagogy, nor do I think that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to deceive people here, or users of denationalisation. I think that there is a serious intention to approach this problem, and I think that people in the government of the Republic of Serbia, who made this bill, want to solve the problem of restitution, so they impose obligations on everyone, any government, someone will have to deal with it someday. I think it's more important to accept this amendment for the reason that this restitution would take place and make it more certain in another period of time, relatively short notice, and I'm not saying that there is some agreement or prediction that there will be a law within two years. We are putting on a deadline for the adoption of another law in the hope that this deadline, by the very fact that it was passed by the Assembly, by some logic of the matter, should be binding on the next assembly's call to respect, or to amend the law, or to extend the deadline under that law. In the end, I have foreseen in my amendment the obligation not to dispose of the property for two years, in hopes that within two years the problem of restitution will be resolved, and unless it is resolved, it is normal that the deadline will be extended. So it's not about demagogy, it's simply about my wish and the wish of DS MPs to make one series of amendments make this process faster and more certain, which doesn't mean that it won't be like this, but there's obviously doubt. We had a citizens protest outside the Assembly building yesterday, and I think that we should approach the acceptance of some of these amendments, and I say that a key amendment is a ban on the availability of that property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14505	To avoid confusion, therefore, Mr Marsican was only a month of Parliament's president from 4 February to 4 March 2004, and he could not during that period. The president who could do this was Natasa Micic, who was president for over a year and a half. Prior to that, Mr. Marscanin had been president for a year and he probably couldn't because the conditions for putting on the agenda were to sign over 84 MPs or to send such a proposal to the Serbian government. Those are the terms. I'm sorry, Mr. Cvetkovic, but you're not mentioned. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government proposes that the amendment be rejected, the Finance Committee proposes not to accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14506	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law which provides for the erasure of the provision of Article 10 of this Act. And why is that? The provision of Article 10 shows the absurdity of the draft law for a number of reasons. The terminological provision of Article 10 begins with the words "returning of seized property", and this law, which has been discussed for days, in principle and in particular with regard to the amendment, bears the name of the Bill on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets. Absolutely nowhere to be mentioned and does not treat this bill – the return of property. This should be the basic law, the legal basis for the adoption of another law on the return of property to natural persons. And in article 10, you say the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities, so it will be governed by a special law. Who is fulfilling under the current Law on the Registration and Recording of Deprived Assets? Physical faces. That is why it is also the excessive provision of Article 10, which determines who is exercising this right. By law, you say that they are exercising the right of natural persons, heirs, legal followers, owners, etc., but why do you even treat persons, or entities that do not exercise that right? I'm going to give you an example, the Criminal Law mostly treats the existence of elements of a crime and of one who has committed a crime, and not to mention one who has not committed a crime, and that is why this is excessive and unnecessary, therefore, that in this law there is a reference to the fact that a special law will resolve certain matter. A similar time since 2001, when you introduced religious teaching so that the Serbian Orthodox Church would not react to the kidnapping of Serbs and their departure to The Hague, which your Cedomir Jovanovic recently said was the reason why you introduced religious teaching. An important reason in favour of the justification of this amendment is the inability to implement the law itself which is now subject to registration and registration of the seized property if it is ever adopted as a prerequisite for the adoption of that other special law. I believe, like all the MPs of the SRS who spoke about this topic, that this is your pre-election campaign, that this is your attempt to score political points. It's your right and we in the SRS don't want to argue with you at all. We just want to explain to the citizens of Serbia your intention to politicise this issue of property restitution. When you mention the return of property to churches and religious communities, to remind you that back in 1998 and 1999, when the SRS was in the government, thanks to the government's top vice-president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, the Raško-Prizren diocese of the Serbian Orthodox Church, I think it was returned, given that I was then a minister of religion, the entire property the Raško-Prizren diocese had, and most of the monasteries in Serbia. While your Goran Svilanovic, with this pseudonym Socrates, proposes independence for Kosovo and Metohija, thus leaving the Serbian country and the Serb church country into other people's hands. And if it's from him, then it's a lot. Furthermore, whether it will be a real return of property to churches, it is another issue that differs from the issues that are being treated and regulated by this proposal for a law on the registration and registration of property as a basic law, as a possible legal basis, and in particular the question which churches and religious communities could return to. Would that be realistic, whether only the Serbian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, the Islamic-Religious Community, the Slovak Church, the Christian Reform Church, etc. So, apart from these churches and religious communities, do you feel that any other church or religious community should be returned to the seized property? Where it says it, in what legal act, or law, which churches. You cannot regulate this law either, until the basic law on the recognition of churches and religious communities regulates the issue of existing, historically existing and recognised churches and religious communities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I'm finishing up a few more sentences. The particular issue is what during the period 1918 to 1941, during the kingdom and rule of the Karadjordjevic dynasty, when the king approved, or agreed to elect the patriarch of the Serbian Orthodox Church, was taken away from the Serbian Orthodox Church. What about that property? What about justice and justice in this matter, when it comes to thinking about solving this problem of people in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as you, if you vote on this bill? The question is and the problem is how will the 10th Law eventually resolve the return of property to churches and religious communities?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14507	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Otherwise, 40 hectares were returned to the Pecko Patriarchy and 40 hectares of Gracanica. I hope a little with the help of the Interim Executive Council, which was initiated, and thanks to the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14508	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to this amendment, I must take a few words to refer to the debate on the previous amendment and I must conclude that both Mr Cvetkovic and Mr Milan Markovic are right. Mr. Milan Markovic said that this authority is wrong, that this government has no intention of returning anything to anyone, that this is a fraud and only a record. And Mr. Cvetkovic was right when he said that the previous government was wrong, too, that the previous government had cheated on Serbian citizens, that it had not done anything either. You're right, gentlemen, both of you. As for the amendment to Article 10, I also have to read the explanation the Serbian government gave. This article reads: "The return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law". National MP Milovan Radovanovic asked for the amendment to delete this Article 10, and the reason why the amendment is not accepted said "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has educated the Commission for the Recording of Property of Churches and Religious Communities, which has already recorded most of that property, and it is estimated that it is not consistent with this bill to re-apply and register it. "Mr. Milovan Radovanovic said that the Pećko Patriarchy was returned to property. Mr. Milovanovic did not say, and now I tell you, and the Church of the Holy Mother in Zemun was returned to the building at the time of that previous power until 2000, in which the Scriptures are now located. If you wanted to, gentlemen, from 2000 to 2003 or from 2003 until now, the existing legal acts were regulated to return what you wanted. There was no good will, and there was no intention of coming back. The point is that this property that has been taken away, this law should be regulated, recorded like this, and this committee will record, and neither the church nor the citizens of Serbia will be returned, because you have no intention of returning, you intend to record.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14509	The word has a folk MP, Verica Radeta, and then Mr Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14510	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking for four days about the law on the application and registration of seized property, and now we have a member of the 10th law, which says: "Returning of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. "So, you're talking about registering and reporting property and you don't mention that some law will be passed that will restore that recorded and registered property. On the other hand, you say that the return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. So that's where you predict the law, and you don't predict in this law the recording and reporting of that church property. This is really obvious evidence that this was done to the hill, extremely recklessly, simply that something is happening to those citizens who expect the return of property that might have happened. The government does not accept the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic, which asked to delete Article 10 of this bill, and then says the government -- the amendment is not accepted because the government of the Republic of Serbia has educated the commission to register the properties of churches and religious communities, which it has already recorded, and so on. Apparently, there are mixed grandmothers and frogs here. How can the government already do a job for which there is no legal basis? On the other hand, you're proposing a law that has no legal basis again, no constitutional basis. Aman people, does anyone here take care of this government at least some basic legal postulates? How can we play like this like we're illiterate, not even past law school? This is really just amazing. Then, the peak of how the government can do it without law; the government has even reported the seized property, i.e. the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, as an integral part of this law that has yet to be discussed, has a claim taken from property. The Republic Property Directorate, if they did this, means, some form, there's no legal basis for doing this job at all, since the competencies of the Republic Directorate are regulated by any other law. It doesn't stand here to change any of the provisions of that law, which would be logical in transitional and final provisions. If we change the jurisdiction of the Republic Property Directorate, then I guess we should be standing after this Article 10, Article 11, which I would say - this law ceases to be a member of that law and that law, or it changes, depending on what it is. So you don't even have formal legal settings in these proposals. I'm really surprised that this is the kind of crap that could have gone past the Republic Secretariat for legislation. I don't know what I'm surprised about, though, if we know that the secretary of the Republic's legislation is DSS, and by 2000 he was the feather of JUL, then he was an expert on legal matters, now too, so obviously he's not doing anything or this was done past him. In any case, Article 10 of this Law should be deleted because it has nothing to do with the previous members of this Law, which we have and made our observations, and in particular the argument of the Government and this incorporation of the Republic Property Directorate, without a valid legal basis, is at least odd to me. I want, for who knows which time, to point out that the SRS is in principle against the law on denationalisation and our attempts to explain these amendments are not that we are now going to fix this law so that it can be applied, but that it is also our principled position. But, on the other hand, to show how insecure the Government of the Republic of Serbia is, how unresponsible, how unprofessional people who suggest such really unsuspecting MPs are, I find it hard to say legal texts, because this doesn't look like the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14511	The word has an MP, Jankovic Branislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14512	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 10 speaks of the return of property to churches and religious communities and is said to be governed by a special law. The amendment was submitted to that article by MP Milovan Radovanovic, asking for the removal of the said member, which is in line with proposals for all previous members, and which speaks sufficiently of the futility of the bill. We don't think that we should simply wait there, because why not abandon the return of church and monastery property, mostly taken away in Kosovo and Metohija. The country was largely given to Albanian refugees from Albania, which aimed at changing the demographic picture in Kosovo and Metohija, of course in favour of Albanians. The position of the SRS is that incorrect property was taken from the church to put into another plan, a team before it would be very easy to do for the truth, given that churches and monasterys at the time had very precisely run books on the property they owned. Secondly, vomiting would be cheaper, because it's not about factories, housing complexes and the like. In the end, we must acknowledge that much of this property in Kosovo and Metohija was returned in 1998, with a strong push by Dr Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14513	The word has an MP named Milivoje Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, Milovan Radovanovic, from the Serbian Radical Party, suggested that article 10 be deleted. This article is closely intended for which property is returned. A lot of people still have their property taken away, but she's not coming back. We from the Serbian Radical Party are in principle against the return of property because this would result in new injustices. This bill does not apply to return but only to the recording of assets. As one of my predecessors said, this is just your intention to hire a huge administration to do something like work, and this is just beating up an empty straw or "the rotten grandmother flax to pass her day" and we've been through for three four days now, and we've got a lot smarter subject to discuss. Do you consciously do this, to distract citizens from current issues such as, say, Kosovo, so almost undetected are the statements of traitors that they should give Kosovo independence and raise their hands from that part of the country. I will give an example, by abuse of official position, of the Secretary-General of the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Yugoslavia, and now the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf Serbia-Montenegro, by the way, is one of the oldest organizations this year to celebrate the 60th anniversary of existence, alienated the entire building i.e. property, and without the knowledge of the deaf, and based on false recognition that this building was built by state resources for social needs. This is not true because the building was built on the compensation for the seized property, which SIV compensated for the property where the current Russian Embassy was in Belgrade, which was the private property of the Society "King Decanski", which was founded long ago in 1897 and it took care of the deaf, and for that there is documentation and evidence. In the area where the building is now, the Alliance of Deaf and Deaf provided with its own funds for the garrisoniers and apartments for the tenants who were at this location, and they had a tenant right. Do deaf people have the right to property like other citizens of this country? If the rights of persons with disabilities are respected in democratic countries, why is that not respected here? The deaf themselves created it with their work, and they did not wait for donations or help to give it to them. They do not receive funding from the budget as a federal organisation, and they represent and represent the country on an international basis. As former owners, without his knowledge, and based on the will of the hearing man, who heard and took advantage of the position, at the most difficult moment for the country. During the bombing, they ran out of assets and assets. How come former owners aren't even customers of their assets, and former tenants have now become users of that property? That is why we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14515	The word has an MP named Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14516	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment to SRS 10 MP Milovan Radovanovic, is proposed to delete this member. Why? Article 10 of the Proposal for this Law sets out the property of religious communities and churches. The question now is, what's the reason why in such a bad bill there's no record of the seized property of religious communities? Maybe it's one of the reasons it's time to mark the beginning of a period of time when the seized property can be reported. What is the date of March 9, 1945, and why exactly March 9th? Two days before that, Mr. Momir Markovic, the SRS MP, the unfortunate government of Zecevic, then Tito's interior minister in the Democratic Federation Yugoslavia, issued an order to ban the return of Serbs to Kosovo and Metohija. Where are the Serbian monasteries and churches? In parallel with this order, nearly 90% of the property is taken away from the Serbian Orthodox Church soon, the country, orans, forests, pastures, and the tragedy to be greater, the country is mainly divided by the Shiptars or even Albanians who fled from Albania. A part of the seized property, said Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, the Eparchy of Rasko-Prizrenska, precisely at the pawning of Dr. Vojislav Seselj and the Serbian Radical Party, was returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church in 1998. This shows the relationship of radicals to the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, especially those that are at stake today, which is the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija. What has not been returned to the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija should be returned immediately, at least by some kind of administrative decree, in order to make it impossible on the legal side to usurpise the Cyprus. As far as registering the seized property of the Serbian Orthodox Church itself is concerned, it is well known that monasteries and churches possess the most accurate data on their seized property. All the details are inscribed what the state took away in 1945 and later. Catastral measurements, soil quality, and even estimated wood mass for the seized forests are included. Who used SPC property in Serbia? It's mostly forest land, agricultural goods, agricultural cooperatives and private owners. What might be the most painless and cheapest solution, you stand out from this bill. It is well known to all of us that today many church estates, which have been taken away, consisting of many agricultural failed cooperatives, are grown into weeds, abandoned and unprocessed. The monastery forests have been cut, demoted and almost everywhere exploited, except for those found in the composition of national parks. Instead of re-drying, they're on their own. It's now an impenetrable bare surface, sometimes transformed into a forest-falling forest, into something that's a step up to the degraded forest content. If anything were to come back to anyone, it would be a great return to the forest, the morning and the pastures of the SPC without significant financial expenditure, compared to the other seized property. Has the obstacle to this been mentioned again by the Performance Study? Perhaps our government thinks it would be a shame to admit to Europe that the SPC is the real owner of huge land properties in Kosovo and Metohija and that it is evident that this property is usurped, primarily by Shipara. Also, there is another reason why the seized assets of the SPC are being pushed aside. The former monastery forests mainly covered the terrain of the springs of clean waters, and since it comes to Serbia that whoever comes from the white world to buy our wealth, our clean and unpolluted water, the interest of the ruling structure is to hold this natural well for himself, more precisely for his targets from the country and abroad, who in the exploitation and trade of healthy drinking water see a good chance of gaining huge profits. In this way, they will finally destroy everything that has been guarded by our monasteries for centuries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14517	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know how to call you, you're just sitting there watching what's done, not having the authority to speak, not to the left, not to the right, we're talking, and you're silent as buried, and the law sucks. It's not right, this article of the 10th law is scandalous, and we told you in the principle debate, because it's talking about the return of property to churches and religious communities, where you say it's going to be regulated by a special law, so if you start from this member and from thinking like that, then we're really going back to our initial discussion -- how much law is it going to be. Now, a colleague of Radeta and I have once again looked at what you have given in the government's explanation, whose probably you are some unidentified representative. Why is that? You're saying there's a precise record kept, which is true, by the SPC, above all. You're saying the government has formed a special commission that will do everything possible to get the property returned when the moment comes. Isn't that, at least, hypocritical? On the one hand, the people you promised you'd say that to, and here you don't give up what the SPC and other traditional recognised religious communities know -- how much property they've been taken from. Your way of thinking when it comes to the SPC doesn't match anything that you want to fight for justice and justice and the return of property in the way the SRS thinks. It wasn't just the communists after World War II who went to drastically take away the assets of the SPC, but first of all, it was the one who many of you in this room and day and day are celebrating and seeing as a great unifier - King Alexander Karadjordjevic. If he had listened to the thinking of our progeny and then the prime minister of the Serbian government – and when the Serbian Radicals were in power, Serbia was always booming, and it will be so soon, when we come to power – so, that he listened to Nikola Pasic, when he told him – Your Majesty, let us be limited to whose it is, you should not be the uniter of all Slovenes – what his idea was, we would have been much better, and Serbia would, now it is already defeating a part of our history, today has a completely different picture. So, you're not thinking about where this is all the land and property of the SPC, but you're saying it's up to this administrative, now framed, borderline of the Republic of Serbia. What about the property the SPC had in Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska. And not only in Republika Srpska, which has survived and with severe torment survives as it is, but also in that part that was torn from the citizens of Serbian nationality during the Dayton Agreement, which we were against, but which is a de facto reality, which is still not respected, but also in this way, it wants to reach the level and degree of what the Serbs have been fighting for, to be abolished by occupiers in the Western Serbian Republic. Our thinking differs from yours because we always knew – when we talked about what Alexander Karadjordjevic was doing and how he took away the SPC property and the country, and also after that, by performing and representing Serbian national interests and observing the area from which Serbs had to leave after eternal stay – and we always told you, to those who only later entered the parliamentary life or to you who are here now, and you will never again be, that this western line of Serbian countries is marked by Serbian churches and monasteries, and that it is not something that the radicals or some who would love a greater Serbian state than the one who truly belongs to the Serbs. The second question is how much time it will take and how much effort we will have to make when we come to power to provide with peaceful and diplomatic means what is the fundamental right of every man on the globe of the earth, which is to live on his eternal land. In the coming days, as long as you are in this session, you will also be told by the Prime Minister of the Republika Srpska region, Mr Milorad Buha, now your colleague, Serbian Radical and SRS MP. I have to tell you that we're even different in that, unlike you, we never wanted to be hypocritical, but we did it, and in very difficult conditions, what we could do at that moment, and we could show our principled attitude. So without the law, we couldn't get back into the property. In one decision in 1998, Professor Vojislav Seselj, Milesevska eparchy, and Revealed to Bishop Filaret, was assigned, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, in the right sense of the words of the ruins that I believe belonged to the Ministry of the Interior. Now, thank God, it was built there, with the inauguration of Bishop Filaret and the clergy of the entire SPC, a great and beautiful governmental court. We have thus shown that at a given time we are doing what we can for the well-being of the people, as well as the SPC. (President: Miss Jovanovic, time. You don't. You show that you are hypocritical, that you are unable to see this, as well as any other problem in the country, deceive both the citizens and the representatives of our religious community, or the SPC and others to whom you say and do not knowly promise that these rights will be governed by some special law. Because you can't do what you're supposed to do and try to rule Serbia, but it gets harder and worse every day. That's why you'll have to pick yourself up soon and leave it to you, more morals and those who will know how to solve both this and all other problems, which are Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14519	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milovan Radovanovic, MP of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on the return and recording of the seized property. A colleague of Milovanovic and our MPs who spoke for this speaker said what the nature of this law is. Article 10 says: "The return of the seized property to churches and religious communities will be governed by a special law. "So the 10th church is not a natural person, first of all, and the legislator of this law, and in this case, the government of the Republic of Serbia, wanted only to take one marketing move such as this with one draft law. Serbia's citizens will not benefit from this, and the SRS will vote against this law. We have made clear in our amendments the reasons, the arguments we have made for this speaker, and why this law is not good, and what is not good in this law. So, the whole law that you have proposed, as well as many other legislative proposals that you have voted here for most of you, you have not thought about how much execution it is and what it will produce for the citizens of Serbia themselves. The marketing move, first of all here, I mean the DSS, which is the institution of government in this government, was supposed to put a finger on the head, and first of all, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, when such a proposal came before MPs in the National Assembly. The SRS believes that correcting one wrong should not cause other injustices. Of course, if you wanted to propose a legal solution and if you spoke in the 2003 election campaign in December of the month, that you would make a legislative proposal, or in the National Assembly, that if you were to rule, you would solve this issue of taking back property, then you should have submitted a complete legislative proposal. Also, the DS that was previously in power, for a time with you, their representatives who spoke for this speaker, there is also no basis. You only had pre-election campaigns served to get votes, telling Serbian citizens that you would pass a law like this. The bottom line of this bill is that it's inconclusive, it's not a good solution. The SRS is against this bill of law that you submitted to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14521	I thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. We're still on Article 10, Mr. Perry, you've noticed well. Here you go, Mr. Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14522	Yes, we're still on article 10 and amendment to Article 10. Let's hear something new. You'll hear. The proposal for this law and Article 10 provides for the return of property to churches and religious organisations. However, Article 3 provides for the possibility that only natural persons can record the seized assets. The problem will arise that churches and religious communities will register that property when simply the law does not allow that possibility. This law on the registration of confiscated assets provides that only natural persons can report their assets that have been seized in some of the ways provided for in Article 1 of this Act. The second principled remark is why, if another law is already passed that should regulate those rights on confiscated property and the return method, a special law is passed for churches and religious organisations. That is why they are singled out into a special Corps and why they are given more importance than other persons, to whom property has been seized in any way provided for in Article 1 of this Act. There are already experiences from some countries that have solved this restitution problem. All the countries, as far as I know, that have passed these laws, have a unique law, whether it be physical or legal persons or churches or religious organizations. For example, to find out something new, and since I see that there are objections to telling the same story, in Germany a fund of 18 billion marks was formed to recover the seized property of citizens and legal entities from the DR Germany, from the former DDR, and they had pre-limited the amount of funds that would be restitution. They went from returning to the amount of 10,000 marks to 100 percent, and returning over 10,000 marks of property, which is worth millions of marks, to a percentage reduction, so that only 10 percent of the property is returned for property over four million marks. Slovenians have been recompensated, meaning the issue of securities of value. The maturity is 20 years, with bonds being on the bearer and being paid twice a year, with an annual interest of 6 per cent. The Croats also issued bonds for 20 years, and the Macedonians for 30 years. However, they all have a much smaller problem because the confiscation of property was made after 1945 and after 1918, but 85 per cent of the assets seized in connection with article 1 of this law are related to Serbia. The problem is much smaller for former republics belonging to the SFRY, so that Montenegro has in its law implemented a restitution in some way. However, the amount of assets seized on a variety of grounds, and whether it is agrarian reform, confiscation, expropriation and I don't know what form of confiscation of property, is much smaller than in Serbia. Everything that has been happening mainly in Vojvodina, Kosovo and Metohija and Šumadia and Pomoravlje. Expropriations, the confiscations of the largest confiscations were made during Informbiro, again in Serbia, were not done in Croatia and Slovenia. The greatest burden and the greatest obligation to return the seized property lies right on Serbia. This law is precisely why it is extremely important and whether a proper way of restitution can be done at all, and especially since 60 years have passed, and there is always the danger that one injustice replaces another injustice, the return of some property to people who are heirs, descendants. The return obligation should be assumed by citizens, who absolutely have nothing to do with what happened 60 or 50 years ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14523	I thank Mr. Milajic. Here you go. The word is by MP Milan Dimitrijevic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14524	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 100. Rules of Procedure. Just now, Miss Jovanovic gave a sentence insulting the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly. She said--you who are gathered here to cheat and deceive this people. We are not gathered here, but, like you, this people have chosen us. Let me tell you something else, I refer to the words that you often use for this pay phone, so words can't actually be more workable, more reliable, or bolder, or more honest than those who pronounce them. They're supposed to be fair entertainers and acrobats. And I'll tell you something else - the language you speak It is quite interesting and unusual, capable of various acrobatics, and I would ask you to choose these words in the future when you speak to both the MPs and the National Assembly. [[Laughter]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14525	Replica, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14526	Thank God we have such a rich Serbian language, so the diapazon of words that I can use to support that you have deceived, deceived and destroyed the Serbian people during your reign goes in favor of my claim, completely justified and based on your actions. Well, buddy, you're just a little late on light. I spoke half an hour ago. Where have you been for the last half hour? Drinking coffee? Walked? What were you doing? Or you remembered, waking up like that and pulling out of a deep afternoon dream, that I needed something like a smart-ass to tell me. You didn't say anything smart. All I know is that you are one of those who, by your cynical appearance and in conversations with MPs, not only from the assembly bench, but in normal communication, which we all have, no matter what political party we belong to, shows the character and nature of your attitude towards political insolents. You really had a chance from yesterday to today to learn something smart, and it's also about this amendment to Article 10. It is religious institutions, i.e. the return of SPC assets. We gave you that opportunity. That, like all MPs, no matter which foreigners they belong to, yesterday, you took the latest issue of a prominent Serbian magazine, in the edition of the SRS "Great Serbia" And if you'd read one of the 44 pages, and you are, here it shows what kind of man you are, the only MP who hasn't taken to read "Great Serbia." [[Laughter]] Ask yourself what it is with you, if everyone else is. So, if you had read anything, you wouldn't have said such nonsense.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14527	Who hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. People's MP Dimitrijevic reacted by breaking the Rules of Procedure, we got a replica, and we ended up, had nothing to hurt the Rules of Procedure when he reacted to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14528	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm guessing a fellow MP will be coming out to me on May 10th, about, since he was a half an hour late. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this law had a different name, if it were called the law on false promises, the law on fog, the law on the passing of certain laws, the Serbian radicals would not have invested any amendments, and indeed, that name would have fully corresponded to this text. I don't just know which mind managed to come up with something like this and suggest, and what MP Branislav Rankic of the SRS said - this is the only case in the world that the government is obstructing. Of course, four quality days have been spent in an effort to explain to the promoter that this law has nothing to do with it. The interesting thing is that the government's authorised representative for the bill was Minister Dinkic, and he began to explain and explain Minister Parivodić, so I assume Minister Tomislav Milosavljevic came to give the final word on the law. In light of this law, it is further stated that it should be passed, i.e. that the adoption of this law was due to moral obligations, I believe, of course, these authorities, as MP Aleksandar Vukic said - you managed to convince the people, of course, at the beginning of the TV diary, that we live in Switzerland. And indeed you, too, convinced that such a situation is that you have fulfilled everything that the citizens of Serbia expected, so now you can go back to fulfilling some promises, or damage that was done to the Serbian people 60 years ago. One of the MPs, in fact, was a small number of those from the ruling majority who tried to explain this, to explain and say, it's not about the law on the return of property, but just to record it, or how much property was taken away. So it wasn't a law to register taxpayers, to follow the Law on the Introduction of VAT, the Law on fiscal cash registers afterwards. That's what logic should do. Of course, we do not think that there should be any predications, but that we should solve and create an environment for the favourable work of all citizens in Serbia. That's obviously not possible here. In light of this law, it is predicted that it will be spent, i.e. from the Republika Srpska budget of about three million, probably for administrative officials, but an even greater amount will be needed, which will have to be paid by those persons who will be potentially interested in reporting their seized and missing assets. This law is absolutely pointless and they managed to convince you not only of the MPs of the SRS but also of a large number of citizens, regardless of what parties they belong to, whether they are even non-partisan personalities, but they believe that such a law absolutely has nothing to do with it and does not serve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14529	According to the Rules of Procedure? On the occasion of the amendment, there is no problem, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Mr. Sarovic, but you're not in the O.R. You need to be in the O.R. first. Now you're here. Mr. Sarovic, you know how, you warned yesterday that there was no quorum, counting on you not being present in the O.R. You can't answer your word today if you're not in the O.R. Now you're in the O.R. and you've got your word, you'll discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14530	Mr. Angelkovic, I'd like to ask you in the future, when you give me your word, not to confuse me. You have to decide whether I'm here or not. I don't know why, but... You're interrupting me again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14531	Wait a minute, when you answered the word you weren't logged in, you weren't there. By the time you arrived for the pay phone, Madam People's MP, the Prophet of Radeta, had inserted your card in, so I gave you my word. So now you can talk because you're in the O.R. No, it's not... [[Sagar.]] I'm watching the O.R. very carefully, watching who put the card where it was. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14532	Mr. Angelkovic, if you will finally give me your word now, I would ask you to give me my time back to the beginning. It would be my turn to get everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. I hope you won't interrupt me now, because it's extremely incorrect what you're doing. I don't know why and for what reasons, but if you've already given me your word, then let me say what I have in some normal and civilized way. It is an amendment to Article 10, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by MP Milovan Radovanovic and which is scheduled to delete Article 10. That member was prevented from registering the property, which was taken away from churches and religious communities, as well as any other property that you really want to return. This member is discriminatory. I don't know why he's here. The explanation given by the Government for not accepting our amendment - that a committee which has already well finished recording the assets of the SPC has already been formed - simply does not stand or say does not drink water. Because if the census of SPC and other religious communities is over, then I ask you, what are you waiting for? If you have an excuse for not passing a restitution law for all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia right now that you don't seem to know how much of the property they've been taken from, what it's possible to return in the form in which it's taken away, and what you're going to have to make up for in money, then it's unclear why the assets of the SPC, which you've already recorded, as well as other religious communities, and you say that this job is almost done, which means you know how much property is worth and what can be returned in the form in which it is taken away, and what it can't. In the case of the church, in most cases, you can return exactly the property that was taken away, which means that you, without great difficulty, could return this property. If you are, as you claim, honest about the restitution of this property, the question arises why do not return this property to the Serbian Orthodox Church immediately. I think it is precisely because most of this property was taken from the Serbian Orthodox Church and that it is any other church or religious community I am sure that you would present it as a request of the European community or of the international one, or rather, and that you would certainly return this property much faster, and that this discrimination has occurred precisely because of the Serbian Orthodox Church and you show it on many other examples. What the paper is is that after a few days of debate without a representative of the government in this House, and finally a minister has joined us, unfortunately, it is not about the minister who is in charge of this law and who has been appointed a representative of the government for this part of the agenda. Now I am also taking the opportunity to remind you as chairman of one fact and to ask for an explanation, because when the debate on this law began, and the bill states that the proposed Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, the President of the National Assembly, informed parliament that he had been informed by someone from the government by telephone that because of Mladjan Dinkic's trip to the government's representative in this Assembly, was designated Milan Parivodić, but that since the MPs had not been informed properly about it, Predrag Markovic promised us that he would intervene in the government to send written notice, which is the minister, or whether any minister was authorised to represent the government in the National Assembly for this part of the agenda. To this day, we have not received such a notice, and now the Minister of Health has joined us here, so I ask if there is, and of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, is some minister authorized to represent the Government for this part of the agenda; if so, which minister is it and why isn't he here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14533	I thank Mr. Sarovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, I understood Vukosav, Tomašev, or you gave up. You gave up. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Mr. Arsic, did you sign up, the card? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14534	Mr. Angelkovic, don't you see that your electronic system isn't working properly and here you can see that two MPs have been sitting for half an hour, so you're not asking that question, the card's in orderly inserted, and there's no identification, that's another story. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is in this article that this whole law is in principle pointless and that the motioner, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should have at least technically taken into account how and in what order they would place members of this law in the very draft of the law. In fact, Article 3 provides for who to report the property seized and seized, and it is already mentioned in Article 10 that the church and the religious communities are to be exempt from this law and that their property will be subject to some special new law. Now the question is who has the right at all, and who doesn't, because you can share something on citizens' faces, natural persons and legal persons, and in what status churches and religious organizations are, which is their status, and whether or not a member of this bill should have been entered. The reason for the adoption of such a law is certainly pre-election promises made by the parties in the new DOS as promises in their campaigns. It's nice to make a promise in the election campaign, but when you win thanks to those promises that are false, a certain number of mandates, then you make up a coalition that's made up of 15 parties, so you start ruling, you see that, except maybe a good will while you're lying to do something you can't do anymore. That lie of yours is seen right here in this bill of law. This bill of law may well be the beginning of some new election campaign, because since the extraordinary parliamentary elections will be very soon, your new pre-election promise will be: here, this law has taken the first step to return the seized property, and if we win enough votes, if we cheat you again enough and agree on the election campaign, we will take that second step to return your seized property. The question arises why this law comes before this special law, when you will return property to churches and religious organizations, because it is certainly that much less property has been taken away from them, so you could already pass this law in this assembly, try to apply it, see if it is possible or not, and then just one such nonsense to propose it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14535	The word has an MP, Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14536	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come to you about Mr Radovanovic's amendment and the simplest I can say is, that you have a good will, this could be resolved immediately. There's no need for any preparation to pass this bill, because there's a double accounting here. The state kept its books, its church, and I can say with full responsibility that the church certainly led more properly, for it fears God, and many of us are not afraid. Perhaps it would be best if we used the local example, to mention the code of conduct, I mean the incorrect, certain politicians on television, when they share some bishops or some of the lower acts in the church hierarchy of which they are, so one of the politicians said the other night that Mr. Bishop Fillaret Arkanov's man, and the other would say that perhaps Patriarch Paul is someone's man, and I claim that they are ours, all of us, and that we are theirs. We're all God's together. Reverend Filaret, whose diocese I come from, must have done more than anyone has ever done before to a diocese and has not deserved to be criticised or placed in someone's ranks, especially those who have sinned against the law. In this time we are witnessing that the property of the church is being taken away and day and day, the estate of St. Nicholas's monastery near Banja began to be pitched last year. The Dossov government, whose members you have been here at the time, assigned these locals to build small-economic sites on the most fertile land owned by the St. Nicholas monastery in Banja. If Mr. Bishop Fillarret hadn't reacted and cursed those who did, it would have certainly turned into a trade center. And what can be done is to return to the monastery immediately, until it's still urbanized and Banja becomes tight. I ask you once again to do what can be done as soon as possible, until it is too late, until the church and its dignitaries are narrowed down. I'm just saying, for the sake of the diocese of Mileshevska and Mr. Vladika Filaret, that he's restored many monasteries, and I'm going to talk about it when it comes to tourism, that now the raška area, that part where I live, can be called free "little Metohija".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14537	The word is from Ambassador Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14538	Here is a member of the 10th factually to reuse the Serbian Orthodox Church, and the church is a people. In the near past from 2000 to today, on many occasions those who were in power, and you who are now, you have abused the church, and the obvious example of this is the introduction of civic education as alternatives to religious continuation. Is there anything scarier that you've introduced to be against religious education? There have been criticisms here by MPs from the position in the way that we SRS MPs address from a pay phone, presenting certain facts, and in my name, as an SRS MP, on behalf of the other SRS MPs, I stand behind all the facts that I have presented and which I will bring, because on the basis of the truth and evidence I am talking about the robbery and kidnappings that are being carried out day and day. And this law and this debate should only serve and give time to take away more and more every day and when you leave the government to leave the people without anything, in misery and misery, and to be humiliated, and that one small number, one minority to rule Serbia and Serbia to be in slavery. Dinkic, as a proposer or on behalf of the government, who was supposed to be here in the Serbian Parliament, staying in Washington with Labus, and also joining the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, was likely to bring results and that after euphoria with the Performance Study, deceive Serbian citizens what they brought from Washington by the IMF. The so-called fifth revision, which was carried out in the previous days, has not produced results and remains to be carried out on the sixth revision, which is said to be in September, and most likely in November. There is no write-off of $700m in debt, but Labus and the one I mentioned in the morning's presentation, Djelic, should respond to the citizens of Serbia, when they concluded a Paris deal on the alleged write-off of debt, as they were allowed to accept that most of the loans, which were in dollar amounts, were converted into euro. The very exchange rate difference between 2000 and 2001, when they negotiated in June, to this day, rose to 60 dinars, the value of the euro was then, so it crossed the value of the dollar and now the euro is 81 and more dinars. Recalculate how burdened Serbia's budget, or citizens of Serbia, is on that basis. That's over a third, that's three billion euros. No write-offs, no forgiveness for those from the West. The IMF has not brought happiness to anyone, neither will it bring Serbia, but unfortunately they must act on IMF orders, as the IMF's arm is extended here in Serbia. No more work for the government plane's housewives, who travelled to Belgrade-Hag. Stojkovic and Loncar turned into housewives of the plane, travelling in one direction or another. No wonder there was a confusion, that no one should know who should be representing the Serbian government here, because all MPs received a proposal for a government law. He signed the bill on behalf of the government, Vice-President Miroljub Labus, and the reasons for the passing of the law under emergency procedure clearly states that this government cannot operate under the Law on Government which is in force so far and that a new government law should be passed. Constitutional functions cannot be realised, therefore neither the Serbian Parliament can adequately achieve its constitutional functions. The minister here who is present now, the health minister, seems to be early or ordered to come, and should have come to Kraljevo, in the village of Brodjevac, and seen how the pilot project "My Doctor" that is supposed to be applied throughout Serbia works. Citizens there are waiting five days to get to the doctors of general practice, from 7 to 2, and they are not received, because that doctor is just doing a midday shift.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14539	The word is Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14540	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a non-serious atmosphere in the O.R., and there's a coffee atmosphere made of Democrats. However, I want to say the subject is very serious and we want the MPs of the SRS to draw attention to the public, so that for four days we just want to prove, by our tenacity and our active exposure to each of the members of this law, that we also in particular draw the public's attention to how serious this topic is. And at all, before this point of the agenda, I remember well, we had a theme of Chetniks and partisans, which we didn't want to participate in, and you're re-imposing a similar topic, like now about denationalisation, to confuse the people again, to bother the people with some difficult subjects. When it comes to a member of this law on the application of property, on the denationalisation, which was submitted by our MP Radovanovic, where church property is mentioned, I would like to say, as I said yesterday, that we have two different arches when it comes to property in Vojvodina, when it is necessary for the folks to take over their property that they lost in 1945, and we have a whole other archeic for churches and religious communities, which I have already said, that most of the total property until 1945 was just property in Kosovo and Metohija owned by the church. So you have a clear task of having to do this because of the feasibility study. Your inexhaustability requires you to do so. So what I'm trying to say is that it's very unserious of you to look back in the past, to bring us back 60 years and just make a mistake in the people, to come into such a situation that there's just a conflict and a general mess within the state. However, we should deal with far more serious problems, the problems of our youth, impose some more serious laws, the law on sport and some more serious law, how we will create our youth and our people a certain future. But what I'm saying is that we have another very serious problem, which is privatisation itself, where we have privatized facilities and sold, where the owners were the ones you want to return the property to, and these objects are also sold the property. That means you're causing more problems this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14541	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14542	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia is making discrimination against the Orthodox Church. If you look at the priority of return, first of all you should have taken into account the fact that a law like this is passed, that property taken away by the State to the Orthodox Church is recorded. In Kosovo and Metohija hundreds of thousands of hectares have been taken away from church and monastery land, now used by separatists and occupiers. There's not a word in this bill. If the country is to be registered with natural and legal persons in Serbia, it means that it should be taken into account and make no distinction and provide for the return of the seized property to the Orthodox Church in that law. Why now the Government and the Proposer make a difference and leave the Orthodox Church aside, and the question arises whether there will ever be such a bill that should pay attention and that the property of the Orthodox Church will be returned equally. What the Proposer suggests is that a special law will regulate the return of property taken from the Orthodox Church, it is not acceptable for the SRS. If the promoter had good intentions, then he cannot discriminate and is not to delay the return of property to the Serbian Orthodox Church. It's not a small-value property. It is a property of high value and therefore the SRS believes that, primarily, the proposing should have 32 laws and sublaws on the basis of which Serbian citizens, so legal and physical persons, as well as the Orthodox Church, property was seized, so that in one law we have a regulated issue of restitution of seized property. But that's not gonna happen. Serbian citizens know this is only one false promise, and to create the impression that the current government has only the intention of returning the country or property. However, it is not said here that it will return within what time. There are no deadlines here, no procedure has been established here, and therefore Serbian radicals tell citizens that they do not believe this, because there is no good intention here that the proposer will act as proposed by this bill. I repeat, and I remind you, that at the same time the Proposer has proposed the adoption of a law on the return of property, then it could be seriously discussed and discussed, but as a preliminary question, is whether the state has the money to pay for what cannot be returned, and on the other hand whether it can return that property that has changed more owners. I note again the case of Pavara Wyfert in Panchev, who accidentally burned down and bought by a Turkish citizen. Turkey is not a member of the European Union and the brewery cannot be returned, and a return procedure is under way in Strasbourg. However, the request of successor Wyfert was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14543	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14544	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the beginning of the debate on this bill, I resented the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because we have received a representative of the motion that is not listed in the letter delivered to us by the bill. The president of the assembly has promised to receive a written change from the government. Now I see already the third proposing representative in this assembly and he also did not get the government's consent to represent this law, because I don't believe he was raising ambitions that his bill would arrive by the end of the day. I guess he came to replace his colleague. Why do we insist so much that we explain to you that the amendment that this member is abolished should be accepted? The church never went past the people. The church never asked for it. Our martyr church always celebrated with the people when they were celebrating and suffering when they were suffering. If you have decided to return the property to the citizens of Serbia, then return it to the church, then return any form of organization. But then there are no special laws. The church won't ask you to. The Church asks you to have a relationship with her that you have with your people. The government and the church should work, and the National Assembly, to help the people. If so, then let us pass tomorrow a law returning the country to the Serbian Orthodox Church in Kosovo and Metohija. Come on, you who can enforce the laws, which predict that you will enforce the laws, let's do something concrete right now. Change this law, accept the amendment to return as long as the land, forests, properties, SPC facilities in Kosovo and Metohija is taken back tomorrow. Will you be able to do that? Is that why you do not predict that you are returning the country to those who were expelled from Kosovo after World War II? This morning, a minute of silence marked the death of Draža Markovic. Who took away the land, and the property, and the citizens, and the SPC, and he among them. This is a congregation of contradictions. In this congregation you desire to right wrongs, and to glorify those who have wronged. It's only because you don't have any more measures. That's why this law is wrong, and that's why what it says in this law -- that SPC and other religious communities will be returned to the country by special law. This isn't a law on the return of property, this is a law on recording. You could have written that a special law would be passed on the recording of the assets of the SPC and the religious communities, not that they would be returned to the property by special law. Are you sure this property will be returned too? Are you sure you'll ever pass a law that brings property back to the citizens? Why do you separate the church from the people? It can't, it has to under the same conditions. The church owns it like any other, has a deed like any other, has taken away property like any other. What's the difference? If that's how you determine, who knows how many other institutions you haven't apostropheed specifically, and they deserve it. That is why we have explained this amendment to you in detail. You don't seem to understand enough. We are against, until the country strengthens, until the finance minister harasses us with half a month's pay, as long as it announces the reduction of many budget releases, we are against the fact that the poor are filling the budget for which former rich people will be paid back their assets. When the country strengthens, when there's enough revenue in the budget and for other purposes, when people are employed, when children can go to school peacefully, to count on them to work when they finish school, then separate some of the restitution budget, for the return of property to rich people. Then I'll vote for it myself. Now, in the poorest country in the world, that you're dealing with the seized property of those who were living an extraordinary life at the time, now you won't have the support of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-04-21-0.u14545	Since it's two minutes to 1800 hours, Mr. Stamenkovic, I suggest you proceed on Monday. I schedule a session, according to Article 81(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Monday, April 25th, 2005, at 10.00 p.m.
