ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18490	Ladies and gentlemen, we're going back to the beginning of the story of whether it's important to talk about autonomy definitely and put into the first member of the law in which the autonomy of the university is unequivocally mentioned, we think that's right and that's what needs to be done. We find confirmations of our position if we take a closer look at the debates of the group that worked on the draft law and its engagement, the individual engagement of members of the law-making group, say in two years ago. Almost no one, of at least five "six" members, and of course I do not enter their titles, expertise and ability, because surely as soon as they were able to come to this place, it is proven in their profession by quality professors, however their political stance on autonomy, on whether or not the autonomy of the university's institutions, such as the departments, can be good or bad, is completely contrary to what is proposed in the common text of this law as a working group. So, in this effort, we see that even without some more detailed entry into the way the bill was written, although it was from Belgrade University, even though some consultations were made, we think that they were thinking more correctly and rationally then, they were publicly advertised and they had an alternative in front of them. Even in some texts, and of course there will be more time for this story and I will show it and argued, they also talked about possible chaos at universities if colleges are derailed and turned into mere outposts, citing completely understandable reasons, some of which we have elaborated, saying in the principle debate on why it is not good to leave the university in a subordinate position. These fees of intervention, as well as the fact itself, because the law in its full scope after six months, a year or two as it was given a legal deadline to act, can only be for the opposition and people who otherwise think that he will not succeed in making such a destructive good education system. It's some hope for the future that we'll still be able to change, because whatever you do and bring it with force, a series of changes the Committee has accepted, now it's brought to us and something's accepted and something isn't, we can't even follow it. To us, rapper is what you've offered here. What you agreed on in the meantime, what you agreed to in the meantime with lobbying to vote on this bill, that is the proposalor's problem, of course, and also its right and not to enter into it, so even if something from this pay phone me and one of our MPs who submitted the amendments says what might have already been accepted, don't look critically, because we can't monitor the night's writing decisions, the government's consent, the committee's consent. He's busy at night, he's working on some irregular conditions, and we have no intention of dealing with that sort of thing. We simply have a clear legal proposal and we're discussing it, what's a little bit improved, whether it's given financial contributions to the university, so it's going to have a jury account, two more years, and three more years, it's all pure cosmetics. That's just saying that even when the law was made, neither were the people involved in the work and the draft being heard until the end, nor did they have reason to change their convictions. In statements by some of these legislators, as the ministry has not done as such, and neither has the administration, according to the ministry, then the question arises how in a year or two something changes, how is it that this current minister, who really has no problem putting a personal account in Serbia of what he has brought and will remain remembered under one law. We thought the worst law would keep Mr. Gašo Knezevic remembered, and this turns out to be worse and for all the repercussions he's brought. But he doesn't have that personal identification problem. There's not a constituency that's gonna say, you see, we're really embarrassed that we did it. He later went from his own party to another party, beat himself up, joined and left the party, as you can see some are already leaving when they don't do something, but bad legal solutions will remain for Serbia. I think that you, speaking in the context of this and the interpretation of certain members, have spoken, and perhaps it is not a problem for the reform part of teaching, teaching content, perhaps it is not as much a problem of the new law as institutional organisation. That's what people used to say who they were writing. This remained recorded, and thank God that there are modern media, a modern way of communication, because if anyone could read the newspaper and collect the scraps, make press clippings, but that's all to be found, something can be preserved somewhere, and it can be concluded that people have changed attitudes. By applying some of the amendments that work, some of them, and so you're going to leave something about that autonomy a little bit or some hints, there's not enough evidence for us that the law is going to be changed in quality, and that's why we think colleges should be kept. You see, there was a whole new situation back two years, there was the possibility that something in the field of autonomy in the formation and creation of programs and rescue operations of the university, their integration, would be saved from the financial dependence of the university. So that alternative existed in the law and some colleges felt called to do something. There are several examples in Serbia where colleges have started to open directions and professions, so what is not even given in the hint of a applicable law. Some of them formed a score board. So, they're acting, they're anti-ciciting the legal solution that's ahead of us. Imagine how tragic it is when you open two more at a university, in addition to a regular study program, because it's supposed to be financially independent with three. The concept, this program, is the question of whether the Ministry saw it, whether it saw the current Council, if anyone had confirmed it, if anyone had read it. It is known that many such colleges of related groups compete with each other who will open, who will cancel, whether their teaching content is logical, and I know for some, that they are completely anachrons, where some higher school has grown into a high school, and this does not mean containing a school programme from which it was created, but something "neither fish nor girl". That's amazing what it's made of, that colleges are saved by looking for solutions before the law goes into action. When did you get here to scare them off? Are they all politically appointed Deans? Who has come to be so scared that so many people turn to walking without talking about the consequences of such preorientation. Look, you need to find a teacher, you need to enroll students -- they're dominantly enrolled by paying out of their pockets. They're not small scholarships, and some of them in the calling register don't even have their own name. A Serbian woman named Turajlic on the edge, signed "cans" on the margin, and people opened it. Why did they have to assume that one day someone would pass a law like this? Why, when those who brought it in at the time it was opened, look at what was said then, what was said by the then president of Snow White, he's a member of the Ministry, I don't know what her last name is, even on a live show that I personally heard on B92. She expressed regret that she would not be able to boast in May that the law had already been passed on and on about some shames and shames, which should make us ashamed in front of the international community. It is astounding to put someone who is ashamed to apologize more to the international community for not being passed by the law. And she's not ashamed that she doesn't have any national elements, and she points out, with Turajlicka I don't know how to let that woman go, I respect Maria Bogdanovic - but, well, three points, etc. It's just amazing what happens from that president of the board and consents to a project like this. Here, you're fixing it now during the committee's nightly session, something a little makeup. That's why we're going out to say it's wrong. We want to prevent what's characteristic of this government -- the law is passed and then it's two or three months, so give me the amendment, change it, then change it to change. There will be a thousand reasons why only because of autonomy, out of autonomy or its reduction in one way or another, there will be reasons to create a vague situation in colleges. Who will now return some already open directions, who will write out the children, what diplomas to give them, and all the more to be independent of. What did someone touch that? For pushing teachers and cadavers. You know, one of the deans signed off on one college, he's implementing the idea, and there's another leadership, an incoherent organ that needs to go on. It's some kind of ratification, that's mandatory. He doesn't have the courage and he doesn't have a minister to tell - Mr. Minister, to stop this, you didn't even pass the law, what I'm doing - open up just in case. How many of these are in Serbia? I know a few. What are we gonna do about these kids? Probably when the Deans come and talk about it. It's very serious, it's somebody's kids, it's somebody's money. I almost got asked if I could put a kid on it and stuff. I said, "What's your baby gonna be?" "What's he gonna do to you?" "What's your program?" It was down to us five or six to write a program and now it's going to say, great, it's creativity, it's innovation, it's a European model. Put your hand in your pocket, sit on the cathedral, you can light a cigar, talk, it's a lecture, you're autonomous, modern. You're watching movies, all the teachers are sitting there, and they're making a few students and a hand in their pocket. Is that the model we made? Is that autonomy? It'll be chaos. We take the financial side, and we leave it to the university that everything he's been doing is still, of course, free of charge. Imagine that 20 or 30 colleges, how hard it's gonna be to get onto a spoon. The fact that we've been picking on this one item, which the law's authors thought was a difficult part of the job, is what we've done unnecessarily. And on the side of the fact that, in a certain way, we've privileged independent colleges, we've given them almost the same status. We've broken them down a little bit in the name, now they're some high schools, etc., but I can have the scope of studies further to the Master's degree, so in a practical sense, we've more devalued the universities set up by the Republic, so state educational institutions, those honest carriers. No matter how multidisciplinary the radio university, no matter how many parallel programs, no matter how much it prescribes, the university cannot gain so much power over the educational process of the university, which is by definition the direct executioner of the educational process. That is why this is also one of the reasons for the anachronity of this decision and the reason for us to intervene in this Article 1 to remove every dilemma and remove what is on our own and what is not on our own.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18491	Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Prince. We'll intervene. [[Gasho Knezevic, from the place: nothing is heard. The whole technique has failed.]] Thank you. I ask professional services to pay attention if it is possible in any way to improve soundiness, and also, Mr. Hiber and I have another kind of problem. We don't even hear better technique. If you don't, Mr. Prince, I'll ask you to organize. (Gasho Knezevic, from the place: This is my place.) () Fortunately, no one has their own place of security, so there are elections. A man chooses where he goes. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Misa Petronijevic and MP Dragor Hiber. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. I am also informing you today, what we announced yesterday, who has not heard, so we will be working today until the end, the session will continue until the debate on amendments are over, and tomorrow, Friday, the session will not be held, but will continue to debate on the 2nd item of the agenda on Monday. Thank you, Mr. Krassic, for waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18492	I have something before I begin to explain this amendment to Article 9, which concerns the idea of forming a National Council for Higher Education. I'd like to comment on something contained in the previous members with a few introductory sentences and also point out that in some strange circumstances we are passing this law. Today we criticise Gaša Knezevic, not because this law is half a step away from what the previous government imagined, but because the spiritual and idea makers of such a bill are people from some non-governmental, university, interesting and other lobby, and rather this government has been planted as a coward's egg. The minister can no longer deal with university professors, universities, as he said at the beginning -- please, gentlemen professors, write down how you think this law should appear to comply with some standards. The ministry will accept all this, to push through the government and here and only in such a way that I can interpret such a large number of amendments to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it simply shows that something is wrong, that it needs to be intervened, that it needs to be corrected. And this law, according to one manner that has been in force for three or four years in the National Assembly, in general in our legislative activity, is overloaded by unnecessary terms such as this in Article 2 that it is part of an international, especially European educational, scientific, or artistic system, as if it were relevant to some norm. Usually a password that doesn't mean anything. Or what is mentioned in Article 3 as a goal, pure desires. Or, in Article 4, it says - respect for humanistic and democratic values. It doesn't mean anything. If you start to interpret what the word means, you're going to get a funny wording. He says -- humanist high school, Greek plus Latin and education in classical spirit. Someone in the NGO sector said, "Let's put these words out there, and it'll look like everything's very European." In this context, we come to a practical situation that, on the relation of Article 5 and Article 6, we lose the essence, we do not see what academic freedom is, and what is the autonomy of higher education, so from one authority there is an unnecessary right, and freedom and too narrowly defines, so that it allows for the possibility of different interpretations. So through Article 8 where it is said -- the right to higher education, then completely unnecessaryly inserts attitude 3 that says -- a higher education institution determines according to the law of the criteria. What does that have to do with the right of an individual? It's an absolute mess. Perhaps there was Mrs. Turajlic, who was interested in these things, involved too aggressively with her fingers. We're on our way to Article 9. The bill, where practically the norm is prescribed to set up a national council for higher education. Since the following members are also trying to get to the point of regulating jurisdiction, education, etc. That national council and we have amendments here, so I'm not going to include that part, which refers essentially to Articles 10, 11 and 12. I just want to comment on this idea of forming a National Higher Education Council. You see, our Constitution allows, in addition to the state authorities, the authorities of the administration, there are also administrative organisations, and directorates and some other institutions, which are authorized to do extremely professional jobs of interest to the state, which by definition are not administrative, but professional affairs. Surely there must be an organ, I'm not now entering his legal status, but an expert body that needs to do part of the work in art. 10th and 11th of this bill. The question is what distance does that authority need to be from the authority of the administration and what is its place in the system of government. We also criticised this concept when it was the Law on Fundamentals of Education, where the National Educational Council was also formed, I think it is called, one by its capacity, a megalomantic body, with a complicated way of choosing. Most MPs probably remember that we finished it at four in the morning. We prayed to the lady who was the minister that, as mandatory electors, she didn't put in some associations and some associations, which may not even exist, so after a few months, it turned out that they couldn't even agree, and some really didn't exist, but they entered the law, they became an integral part of a norm. And more or less, I think that we have formed this National Educational Council for almost a year, and believe me, a few months has been a problem in the Assembly who is proposing another member because there is no official proposal, so it was going to be an interpretation of the Legislative Committee, whether it can be done by MPs, whether the Education Committee and the alleged body that does these professional jobs has been formed, not only for programmes, but also for other things concerning education, the primary and secondary ones. This idea is being reviewed and when it comes to higher education, this law forms a special national council, you will be given what powers and what powers, and it is not clear whether this national council should be an expert body of the state, whether it is an association, which is its real reach, what it can really do other questions, but it does not answer the central question, and that answer must be given very precisely by the National Assembly when it adopts a law, where there is a state. When I say state, where the government is, where the authorities are and that's the biggest problem of this law, and when it comes to the national council, when it comes to commissions and when it comes to professional bodies as working groups or individuals you call reviewers. There's really a question of where the government is. So in the introduction, I purposely mentioned the provision on academic freedoms and autonomy, so that you would understand that even if something that is in question of autonomy is prescribed, it does not mean that autonomy is being disrupted, but it is being put into some frames. Because if you run an analysis of all these points, which are listed in Article 5, where autonomy is defined as a right, not as an authority to do something on your own, then you'll get into a situation, and now I understand the government why it had to intervene with that member, to write in the opening sentence - in accordance with the law. Already in point 7 of Article 6 is said - the right to have financial resources, in accordance with the law. So, twice in accordance with the law, it is twice potential that autonomy does not mean so much freedom not to recognise regulations that regulate the financial business of legal persons. I'm saying all of this because the state doesn't have a clear picture of the distance the National Council for Higher Education needs, what its real impact is. Because the state must not allow this higher education to collapse, which is not mandatory, any obligation exists in the sense of allowing people with the right qualifications to deal with educational activity, to deal with scientific work, there is some obligation in terms of what the state is funding under certain conditions, that people are highly educated. There are two responsibilities of the state, and everything else is free, depending on the individual. But these things define the fundamental policy of this area, so that we don't get into a situation where we say the next laws -- who finishes business school, can pass a judicial exam. I wouldn't even be surprised by some of the non-governmental ideas that are being promoted, whether through MPs, whether through ministries, whether through parliamentary groups, whether through the government and the IMF. So the danger of that erosion exists. The National Educational Council was formed in the field of primary and secondary education. Why should he not perform the function provided for by Articles 10 and 11 and other provisions of this law for this National High Education Council? You see for yourself when you consider programs, when you consider the idea of how to organise higher education, I guess these people have to have a basic understanding of what the previous education has given as a quality, which is the extent of knowledge needed to assume that there is, in the first, second and next year, a student can go beyond that high school education. Why isn't it in one cell? Full education to be in one cell. That organ should be close to the Ministry, to be honest, I think it should be the Ministry's expert, to the Ministry's experts. We will see with later provisions that even this skill has not been carried out until the final sequences. Why? Because the universities wrote this law and wanted to explain their position. They wanted to achieve their domination. We will come to those provisions on the link founder and higher education institution, so you will see again public service, self-government and rotten grandmother flax, and there is nothing in Bogoljub Karic, but pay for it and finish it. There's no autonomy there, no academic freedoms. Aydukovicka received a delegation from Croatia, talked, of course talked about Bogoljub Karic doing something in Croatia. Where's college, scientific work and educational work? He's gone. It's advertised, and state colleges, state universities, stagnation. If that's reflected in this national council, as you have imagined, then all these fractures will be legalized through views, opinions, decisions, or how it stands here in most of the positions of standards and criteria, and then there will be erosion, and then nothing means anything to you either the Bolonian Charter or any other act. That's what this is about. The state can't be a silent observer of what's going on. The state must not be afraid if it says that the expert body of the ministry is that and that body. In this way, neither the freedom of academic creation nor the autonomy of the university was destroyed. The state needs to stand above it, everyone's looking for the state as a hat. It doesn't mean the state as a hat oppression, as some of us have been taught by people who have been blowing in the streets, all countries are being oppressed. It doesn't oppress the state all, no need, no interest in destroying. When you came to power you saw where you were mistaken and the greatest lack of this law was precisely because it was written by stakeholders, and the government and the Ministry did not have the courage and courage to promote national and state policy through this law. Why didn't they have the courage? No one can lift their heads off these NGOs and what comes from abroad. Then it's portrayed as the state's infirmity in front of an intergovernmental sector that's emerging, which is aggressive, which is rude. That's why we are submitting these amendments, to restore the reputation of the state, to the state to say what national and state interest is and to implement it all the way. Experts, be experts in terms of the programme, quality, etc., but don't make an erosion of something that's state-class education.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18493	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18494	He's threatening to throw me out if I warn him not to say "elpa." Mr. President, I'm a messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18495	Mrs. Ruzdic, I will give you back your time, since I do not allow in any way harm to my religious feelings and you are certainly not a messenger. I know exactly what a letter looks like, from Paul's side. Fortunately, you are a lady, a lady, an equal folk MP. These are the shortcomings of the Serbian language, but we can't fix it. Of course, this is part of each other's joke, but please, out of the loop, thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18496	When you're alone, you say, "I am." But you say to yourself, "I'm alone," and I say it when you talk about yourself. So one word has two meanings. A letter may also be a letter from the patriarch Paul, and a female noun for a woman who performs the duties of MPs. The fact that we haven't yet been able to sensitize our language, that's one thing, but soon enough, it'll be over. So we'd better get used to it in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18497	Thank you, Mrs. Trifunović. I'll give you your time back. Of course, in no way do I mean the emissary of Patriarch Paul, because there is a difference of some 2,000 years, but everything is fine. Here, this is a discussion that we will all continue to enjoy together. I don't want it to affect the shortness of your time to discuss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18498	My amendment is very short and I don't want to be as extensive as my colleague Krasic and I don't want to talk about the amendment that I was supposed to say at the time of the debate in principle. So, I'm just going to try once again to stand up for a change called "national council", as I did with the Law on Fundamentals of Education. I simply consider it more appropriate and more appropriate to call it "state," because this is the expert body that works for the state of affairs. So I think that we leave "national" to scientific institutions, to some art institutions, to some natural institutions, such as, say, national natural museums, and that in the council, when it comes to education, we put the names "state", because it means that it belongs to the state so an important body that tries to introduce us into the development of higher education and a better state of higher education. It's simply not my proper name and again I'm trying to appeal to the minister to change the name to "state," because I think it's more appropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18499	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18500	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the argument made by Leila Ruzdic, but she is unacceptable to me. No one should fear anything that is national, especially when it comes to the National Educational Council. I guess that council has a duty, it has a duty, it has a mission, it has a mission to provide all the citizens of this country with what is expected of it, in a way that is nationally clear, recognizable, clean, which does not endanger anyone else. The state is, by definition, coercion. It was created out of necessity, out of the knowledge that another way is to organize the lives of citizens living in one territory. "State" sounds too rigid, "national" is receptive to anyone who recognizes what they want. In doing so, we do not dispute anyone to recognize, by that concept, what is most dear to him. That's why the amendment to my dear colleague is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18501	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18502	Ladies and gentlemen, about half an hour ago, we received a report from the Education Committee, which refers to amendments submitted to the proposal for a law on higher education. Now I'm going to introduce you to how statistically it looks. The bill has 130 members and 137 amendments have been submitted. Proposer representative -- Minister Vuksanovic, on behalf of the government, accepted 34 amendments. That's 20 of the government's amendments. A single amendment of the SRS MPs was adopted because it happens to be in line with the government's amendment. I think these data also speaks enough of the bill and of the minister and government's relationship to the position of the largest parliamentary group in this House. Now I ask the minister and I ask the government, where is the authentic position of the government, the authentic text of the bill, and what will this text look like, when of the 130 members, 34 amendments? What will be the likeness of what the government initially suggested to the MPs, to debate and eventually adopt? Obviously, when I look back at this statistic, whose amendments were accepted, of course, we understand why they were accepted. Probably these amendments will stop the situation from happening two days ago, when you had that very interesting vote here. We would like us in the SRS, in our parliamentary group, since we know that Mr Vuksanovic adopted, on behalf of the government, 34 amendments, to explain to us, since we do not have the government's opinion, and we should have, which is why our 40 amendments have not been adopted. and certainly they are both good and meaningful, and that they may improve the text of the law. Article 10, which, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment and proposed that the member and the title above this member be deleted, refer to the composition of the National Council. Our principled position is that this national council should not have formed this law. He spoke to counterpart Krasic earlier on the National Educational Council, which is foreseen by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. We did, even when the law was passed, make our point. We think that such important things must be done by the state, that parallel state bodies cannot be formed, that if we have one and the other of these councils, then the question of what the minister is doing, what does the ministry do. Then the ministry was to be abolished and these tips remained. Our proposal, when we already have in this Law on the founding of the system of education and education, is the National Educational Council, that it was enough for this National Educational Council to expand its activity on what the Law on Higher Education provides and that one advice can carry out these tasks, but not in the way that the National Educational Council so far provides for the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. The National Educational Council "became famous" and became famous for introducing Bosnian or Bosniak language in the history of eighth grade students about Misa Kovac, Teresa Kesovija, together with Minister Vuksanovic. I'm surprised they left out that Mark Petrovic Thompson and those who sing about Chavoglava, the Ustasha sands they sang here at the Sava Center. Of course, we are afraid of this experience that this advice that you provide for this law will be done in the same way as high education. Article 10 provides that the national council shall have 15 members. So if this member were to remain on the existence of a national council, if we had no objection that there was a national council, then the way it was regulated by Article 10 would also have to change significantly. The National Council has 15 members, elects ten, two or three, and then says in Article 2, the Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, publishes a public call for candidates for members of the National Council, and then the deadline for applying for 20 days, and then the list of candidates registered is put on public notice within ten days. And finally, in the next position, you say that the Conference of the University, or the Conference of the Academy of Professional Studies, gives a final proposal of up to 15 candidates to the National Assembly within 30 days. What is the purpose of this public publication, if the same person who published the contest considers possible objections after that public insight and, of course, will again propose to the National Assembly what he would suggest and without that public insight, because there is no further insight into who may have had any concrete objections and whether these objections have been adopted, whether or not they are not and why they are not. So this is how this is intended to be completely pointless, completely legally unsustainable. In the final position of this bill, it states that - members of the National Council are entitled to compensation for work in the height established by the National Assembly. This is the bottom line, which is why we need another piece of advice. A council of 15 members, a commission and so on, that's just enough for another trade, for another vote. All it says is that the National Council will receive compensation from the National Assembly, not from what is fact, which is that 14 million dinars from the state budget should be set aside for the start of the work of this council. So, another imposition, another hand-to-hand in the pocket, not to really improve the situation in higher education, but to make various parties within the government and within the so-called ". The ruling majority could satisfy their interests, and Serbian citizens should set aside 14 million dinars for this council. So, it would be good if the minister, when he accepted some amendments on the Committee, accepted this amendment, because it really has no purpose, the existence of this council is unnecessary. We already have one piece of advice. He could do this job, too. Of course, provided that the state deals with this problem a little more, that we have a state attitude, state interests, not individual interests, interests of various NGOs. The government, or parliament, has passed many bad laws on the government's proposal, many laws that have brought negative consequences in various areas of social life in Serbia. But some new government, serious and fair, patriotic, will be able to correct these negative consequences and erase the consequences of these and such laws. If we pass such a bad law on higher education, then no one can fix it anymore. This is not about adopting and implementing this law, only about how materially it is, how much it affects Serbian citizens, but about how this law, when adopted and applied, would have far-reaching consequences, because it would destroy several generations of students, future experts, while in some new government, the assembly majority would return to some traditional learning and study systems. There is another interesting thing about this law and the current minister, therefore, that the minister and the ministry, have already registered students in this year under this law, or the bill that we are still discussing, which has not yet come into force, which has not yet been adopted and the question is whether it will be. So, and this is another piece of evidence that this government doesn't need laws, that this government is doing as it currently does, that any interested group of conditions to it right now and it would really be good that MPs, given that the government won't obviously accept these amendments, and if the minister doesn't already withdraw this bill, and indeed, I don't think there's this serious minister who wouldn't withdraw from the procedure a law that out of 130 members has 137 amendments. There will be no ministers and a government proposal when 34 amendments are adopted and I would very much like the minister to explain what his law really is after the debate in particular. They won't know it themselves, because it's going to be like it's already happened here with some laws, so we're going to have changes and additions when the ministry's services sit down, so when they agree to the amendments, they're going to figure out how many illogical things there are and then we're going to have changes and additions to the laws that are already applied to the student enrollment this school year. Once again, I call upon the MPs to adopt the amendment of the SRS. We don't need another ballast, we don't need another 14 million dinars of Serbian citizens to give to any members of the national council, in order to satisfy the interests of small parties that condition the government of the Republic of Serbia in each vote. The government must accept the fact that it no longer has the support in this parliament and stop accepting any conditions, discuss the elections nicely, that Serbian citizens say who is currently capable of leading Serbia and higher education in state affairs. Of course, it is not disputed that it would be the SRS and that is why elections are not being discussed, but we are certainly ready to accept responsibility for Serbia after the next elections and to guarantee students and university professors a much better law, a much better status, because this law does not take care of those real professors and at least of the students. This is a law passed for private universities, for private colleges which, of course, form within interest groups in both the government and the Serbian government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18503	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Milisav Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18504	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 10. Proposal for a law on higher education for the following reasons. Article 10. The proposal for a law on higher education provides for the formation and composition of the National Assembly. Previously, the National Council for Higher Education is educated to ensure the development and quality of higher education. So that's why she's getting her education. The National Council for Higher Education is a national body. It's not a university body. It has nothing to do with autonomy. Thirdly, it's precisely regulated who can't be in the National Council for Higher Education. And, of course, there are three categories in the Higher Education Council: one from the university, the other from the Academy of Professional Studies and the third from the government's representatives. Of course, it is operationally, rationally, but given the importance of higher education, we think there must be room for SANU representatives in such a national body. I think that's where they belong. Secondly, it is seen from the law, and especially improved by these amendments, that students are a partner in higher education. Law intervention through amendments gave them the right not only to manage but also to decide. Students participate in decision-making at higher education institutions. We believe that they should be given the right to participate in decision-making and in this body when it comes to the quality of higher education. We know that the National Council for Higher Education is a professional body, a highly professional body, but we also know that we have students in doctoral studies who and how they can contribute to the work of that body. They have the most recent experience of how it happens every day in practice. For these reasons, we have submitted an amendment, believing that they too should be a place in the National Council for Higher Education. In the second part of the amendment, we have only tried, we do not insist, but we warn, that we should put a little order in the way of proposing the election of members of the National Council for Higher Education, so that we do not come into the situation we had at the National Educational Council, which, due to an unregulated procedure, could not be elected for a year. We don't think this intervention is harmful, and it just improves the procedure for them to choose. And, if you allow the chairman, since we also have an amendment to Article 22 concerning student conferences, and it is also related to this National Educational Council for Higher Education, let this also be an explanation for this amendment to Article 22, when it comes to student conferences and their rights, which we insist on, to elect members of the National Council for Higher Education For these reasons we expect the National Assembly to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18505	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18506	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, fellow Petronijevic has given a precise argument, but I would like to add a few more sentences. Youth is not a handicap, youth is an advantage. The energy carried by youth, and students are youth, should always be given a chance, in competition with wisdom, and in co-existence with high titles, great experience, various settings, obligations, a sense of responsibility, giving extra power, additional injection, and therefore, students should be given all those rights that they truly stand for, and no one should have fear of students or their youth, their position, because somehow in our history, whenever students have stood up for something that usually happened, when they all get together, they did it for someone else's interests. Several times this has happened in recent and distant history, and this would be a fine opportunity, if the amendment that Mr Petronijevic spoke of had a greater chance, that someone who is in a direct process, who is concerned with all of this in a very specific way, would try to get to himself and to those he represents, to his generation, to his colleagues, authentically transfer and represent and decide what is interesting to them. So, between the wisdom and the energy of youth, the enthusiasm that carries youth, I stand for at least half-half. No one has celebrated who gave way to the energy of youth and no one has sinned who has helped to provide youth with what only she can. The more we grow old, the more we feel that our years, our knowledge and experience, are irreplaceable. Fortunately, it's not like that. Fortunately, those who come are always ahead and always better seen than those who were 10, or 20, or 50 years ago, and in the name of that I advocate what is the subject of this amendment, not by courting students, but by bringing up, hopefully, the essence, both as the father of a student and as someone who is able to recognize what this generation today has as a request. And that demand is the true and true democratisation of society, an educational process that can provide the best possible way for them to prepare for future life, future calling, and to sit here one day in this or another parliament, and to pass laws for 10 million citizens of this country, of which no one will be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18507	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zvonimir Stević. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education adopted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) It is not an integral part of the draft law because the Legislative Committee has not declared its amendment with the correction and will therefore have to go to the vote. Ambassador Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18508	Ladies and gentlemen, in article 10, you can see how to choose the composition of the National Council. It's a long member, very complicated. A colleague of Radeta also told us about it earlier. It says here 1) that members of the class of professors -- top scientists -- are elected. I suggested that those words be thrown out. What is it -- a top scientist, and if we make them be Nobels, we don't have any. We have to define what line we're going to when we tell someone he's a top scientist. I suggested that it only stands there – from the order of regular professors with internationally recognised scientific papers. That is quite enough, and the papers published in international magazines are usually subject to strict reviews. Then there are deadlines. First, a public call is being issued, a competition for members of the National Council. It takes 20 days, then 10 days of public insight, so it's sent to the government, so the government is given 90 days to do some part of its work and to come to the Assembly, and we won't get the National Council, if this stays in the law, until the spring of next year, so much before we have a bad experience with advice. When we chose the Enlightenment Council, how long we waited for the institutions doing so to send their people. You remember when we chose the Broadcasting Council how many complications there were, etc. With my amendment, I suggest that all of this be simplified. There's no need to make a public call. I'm giving the government only 30 days and not 90 days, and I think it would be very useful for this law if you voted for this amendment, since the government wouldn't accept it, to simplify that choice, because we have to wait half a year to form the National Council, and it has very important tasks when it comes to university and higher education at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18509	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetislav Krstic and Rajko Baralic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragore Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been given to the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18510	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendments to the Pre-Law on Higher Education on behalf of the G17 Plus Group were submitted by Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. I must remind you that this law has been withdrawn from the procedure, and then amendments on behalf of the G17 Group of MPs plus submitted by members of the Committee on Education Nadica Momirov, VesnaOradovic and MPs Milka Silajev, Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. For technical reasons of repeating the amendments to the same text of the law, only Vladimir Homan and Miloljub Albianić are now signed on behalf of the parliamentary group, and the amendments to this law will explain the distinguished colleagues of the Committee on Education Nadika Momirov, Vesna Obradovici Col. Milka Silajev. I think it's very correct from the assembly pay phone to say it. I am sorry that the Committee on Education and the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept certain amendments. I think there is still a need to explain properly and we expect by the end of the debate that some other amendments, which are good, are accepted and proposed by the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18511	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18512	Member of the G17 Plus Group has tabled an amendment to Article 10(1). Otherwise, we have spoken in principle about how necessary this new law was and how many amendments there have been, and the government and other parliamentary groups, are only proof of how much we are all interested in this law and in higher education. The fact that some are accepted and some aren't, you know, like when you're making a cake and you want to decorate it in the end, so you add cream, etc. So everything that looked like that cream was accepted, and what was pepper, which would spoil that cake, was not accepted. In Article 10(1) after point 1), we of the G17 plus consider that the members of the National Council should be a little specific. The law states that 10 members are elected from the order of the regular professors of top scientists, or artists, with internationally recognised works or witnessed contributions to national culture, taking into account the representation of educational and scientific and artistic fields, on a proposal from the University Conference. Since we have five educational and scientific fields in the framework of the study programmes, we have said that these are natural and mathematical sciences, socio-humanistic sciences, medical sciences, technical and technological and art, we thought it would be much more accurate if, after this point, the words "two from each of these educational and educational fields, i.e. educational and artistic fields" were added simply for the equal representation of all fields. Whether a university has fewer professors or fewer students, each should have a chance within the National Council. In Article 10(6), at the end of the sentence, we propose to say that the Conference of the University or the Academy of Professional Studies gives a final proposal of no more than 15, i.e. no more than three candidates to the National Assembly within 30 days of the expiry of the deadline for submission of observations and proposals. We also felt it was necessary to take care of the number of university students and the number of teachers and associates. Given that this bill equalises state and private colleges, it should make sure that, say, the University of Belgrade has over 70,000 students and that it should have a certain advantage over some new young universities that will open and have hundreds, perhaps even fewer students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18513	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word? We're moving on to the next amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Title above Article 11 and Article 11. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18514	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is amazing that Minister Vuksanovic has no patience to follow the amendments to such a significant bill, significant in the context in which he represents him. As for us Serbian radicals and our position on this law and the law on secondary and basic education, which you brought a year and several days ago, it has absolutely not changed and it points you to the fact that in a very important area, in the context of what education, many things, at least as truly respected people from the profession say, in an amazing way put into confusion, will contribute to the development of higher education in Serbia, just as it has not contributed to the previous, related to primary and secondary education. Already today, anyone who wants to think about their fate, and is busy in the education, and you can see for yourself that from this morning on, headlines in all the newspapers are that they are expecting cancellations, in the context of the minister's exposure and these indirect threats that he is exorcising, it is really the basic question that we need to consider here -- what is the legitimacy of Minister Vuksanovic that he is proposing this law. If yesterday you were all in your internal budgets and calculations, as one daily newspaper did, you could see how much one MP is worth, there is no gap in which Minister Vuksanovic can be found. It's really like that. And his famous threes here won't support him for the bill of this law and his presentation. Imagine the legitimacy of a man who doesn't even have his own political, party identity, who is a neo-term in Kostunica's government, in his party, and comes with a bill like this, which any respected university professor can dispute with the power of the arguments, as Professor Milet Poscurica has done since the beginning. Each other not a university professor, but an MP and a politician knows that if someone goes to the National Assembly of such an important portfolio with a proposal must have voters behind them first and must have the support of the profession. This national council that is being established and the Law on Higher Education is actually a parallel or absolutely identical body to that national council, which you chose just over two months ago. And now to ask the MPs of the ruling structure the question: what is the name of the president of the National Council – perhaps those who are members of the Education Committee, the minister probably knows, since it is all his capacity – but you all have no idea what the person's name is. This amendment, which I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and Article 11, speaks of the jurisdiction of this council now, which is to be established within the framework of higher education and which has just been discussed by a large number of Members, the way in which the application is done, the call for competition, the advertising. And then it's amazing that the one who's making the public call is the one who actually decides who these people are from the profession, just like it's listed in Article 10, who's going to be elected. If you look at Article 11 of the proposed law, so I asked that both title and article 11 be deleted, what the composition and jurisdiction of the council under the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System looks like, this same advice that you remember that you chose at night, and that's problematic about selecting members. I must remind you that the president of the National Assembly is completely unsettled in that situation and not knowing for himself how this proposal is put to the vote, or individually as one has arrived, I warn you, that you should only vote for one of the proposed candidates. So, by accident or already in failure, and the chairman of the board, Mrs. Banovic, twice voted under one proposal, I don't know what profession it was from. Now to ask yourself what kind of people are members of that National Educational Council, here you don't know the president, but at least to name one, you wouldn't know it, you wouldn't know it, and before you, there's a responsibility, because this new one is being founded, because it takes 14.5 million dinars to start this new one, because the one that was previously elected at the deaf time of night or already in the early morning, again in a completely wrong way. The question really arises, in addition to selecting some of them, because you've all violated this procedure, so you've voted two or three times from the framework of one profession for the proposed candidates, what they're going to do. They're identical to their responsibilities, or if they're not in writing, as it says in the passed law, now is the proposal, there could possibly be some kind of modification. Then the question arises - and what do you need two national-enlightenment councils and who are these smart-ass guys who are going to sit down and say, well, we're going to be the ones that we're going to decide and who we're competent to do based on what the law has given them and Article 11. what everything they need to do in the future. You don't have any notice, they don't have members of the Education Committee, and they don't know what the President of the Council's name is, or who his members are under the passed law last year, or when they met, or what they do, or how they do. There is simply no such report, nor are the MPs familiar with it. This is indeed a typical delusion of the entire Serbian public, and students and professors of the university, and people who want to participate intensively in improving the position of our universities and preventing everything that is today and that exists both at the University of Kragujevac and at the University of Belgrade, Novosadski, Niško, and this is the express degree of corruption between professors and their associates. And indeed only we who come from Kragujevac are ready to talk in a series of examples about it, and even personally as it is done, because you know this is the biggest pain today in Serbian education, just like in health care, just like in the area of finance, and the minister is distracting us with such bill proposals, which, in a qualitative sense, will not bring anything new. I repeat again, without any legitimacy, because both the minister and all his associates, and the present lady who is his assistant, and everyone else from the cabinet, from the Ministry of Education, have no representative capacity in the electoral body, are absolutely politically unidentified persons in the sense that people recognize them as bearers of some change and that they can mean something. You can't be part of the executive government without the people giving you the trust, and the only thing you can trust is the election. Now there's a throw-off here that he's given his trust. He has given you such a high-priced and scolded by Kostunica. They think the people gave up 28 December 2003, after radicals shot down DOS power, Kostunica's trust. No, he gave Serbian radicals. The fact that he didn't want to listen to the smart man and the most popular politician in the country, Mr Nikolic, the next day, so he resorted to this unfortunate gathering of his coalition partners will eventually come to him. You know, Lalovic saved you yesterday from tomorrow's election, but Lalovic doesn't have much in your close coalition. You never know when you sleep tomorrow what's going to happen, who's going to cancel your obedience and how much you're being blackmailed. This is how this Vuksanovic, who has been accepted by you, scrapped these all for his cabinet, brought them and those with laxative political views, completely unknown in the political public, to lead such an important portfolio, such as the Educational Resor, to go before honorable and respected professors, who are not in crime and corruption, unlike some, with proposals of law, which absolutely, as well as this bill, in terms of establishing a better rule of conduct and professors and students when it comes to higher education, cannot be passed. These are all questions that always have a beginning and an end. The beginning is when people who shouldn't have gotten that trust get the trust from some to do the job and then give themselves the right, as he did on the first day of the debate on the draft law, in the principle of Minister Vuksanovic, your minister, to evaluate who are worse, who are good and who are the best professors of the university. Who is he to even deal with such judgments? He's not ashamed. There should be one day of university work, as colleagues here from various political parties and our authorised representative, Dr. Poscurica, need to talk about it. Well, that's the minister of education. But because the ossion and the wings were given to him, and he should not have gotten them, they will be cut down by voters in the next election, and by such and similar ministers in the future government, but by people who are willing to do their job responsibly and behind whom the voters in Serbia stand, unlike the minister, the lady who is the assistant, because she just happens to come from Kragujevac, so her political and representative capacity in this regard I know very well, and everyone else, and not only in that, but also in other ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18515	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18516	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. I would only like to resort to this presentation by SRS MP Natasa Jovanovic. To be clear, the National Council for Higher Education, as it is given here in this Article 11, when you see its competences and when you read what its goal is, it is said - the development and improvement of the quality of higher education. If that's the goal, how can it be achieved? First, with the educational content, you'll all agree, and the methodology. There's a science that deals with it, a pedagogy. Who needs to regulate it, to have good educational content and to have a good method, and of course also quality lecturers. The waist. If the waist has to regulate it, it's the only thing that can regulate it properly, and there's nothing for the government to look for. Those two representatives of the government are absolutely unnecessary. Furthermore, if you see all of this in 15 points, you see that it's a parallel ministry and that this body should run politics. Why are we against this? This is the destruction of our legal system and our system of administration so far. If you don't want to work with the Ministry, if you're incompetent, and if you're being pushed through all kinds of papers and you accept it, that's your solution, you say it, demission. Do not give up and destroy the system of administration that exists in all developed countries of the world. So we don't need a parallel ministry because someone can say what to do with the protection of public interest and responsibility. There is a mechanism, we have supervisory committees, and that's where the government should appoint its own people to control. If this is advice, then the role is advisory, it's not politics. There's something from the Orwell Repertoire again, that you're changing the content by terms. Orvellities is to say the opposite of what the term means. Don't play, and that's why we tell you that the politicians are led by those who need to lead, and if they're incapable of demissioning, and don't make a parallel ministry like this. There's a big concern that this body will be the center of the monopoly, and that's something again from that collective consciousness I was talking about yesterday, and in the next speeches when I explain the amendments, I'm going to touch it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18517	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment has been withdrawn. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18518	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this legislative project has been quite said in principle by the Members of the SRS, we have made a lot of remarks about this law, but as a member of the Committee on Education, I can tell the MPs some things closer and some of the details that were happening on the Committee on Education, which is that they are reunited on the same goal and on the same subject of the former DOS, the current DOS or the remains of the DOS that are today ruling. In fact, the Committee on Education was almost entirely agreed by MPs or the remains of the former DOS Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, those who are now ruling. Then we noticed that this law was sent to you long before, perhaps long before you signed the Bologna Declaration in 2003. They're probably giving you frames and what you need to do. At the time, Minister Gašo Knezevic was and probably because of that power struggle between you, you failed to push through the law in that version, and now you're trying to do so together, and that will prove when you vote in the Assembly. As for the Minister of Education, he said on the Education Committee that he didn't get involved in his work much, that it was written by university rectors, by some NGO. Generally, the Education Committee was guided by Gašo Knezevic, the minister of education did not interfere much, nor did the assistant minister of education, because they did not know any details to explain to us members of the Committee, including fellow MPs, university professors who asked questions. So they didn't get involved in their business, they were just given it to do and it's going to work. I told the Minister of Education that there was no need for any cosmetic change, that we should worry Gus Knezevic not to be a minister, he could have stayed. However, the minister of education said he would like to be a minister of sports, as I recall, and the Ministry of Education did not give him much interest. That's what you can see. That's how it happened, and after such cohesion, we Serbian radicals left the board, we saw that all this was agreed in advance and, of course, it would all be done that way. This law, which we talked about a lot, is something like Shuvar's school, if you remember in the '80s, when there was a big mess in elementary and middle education. In fact, such a final law will make a big mess, probably both a fuss and a race, a lack of understanding in October when it comes to enrollment and I believe it will take at least two and three years for those who wrote this law and those who will do sublegal acts to explain at universities and universities what to do and how to do and what all the situations will be in colleges. If you read this law and see the responsibilities of the National Council for Higher Education, and those who understand themselves in the schematic display and structure of the Ministry of Education, you will see that many responsibilities of the Ministry of Education coincide with the responsibilities of this National Council for Higher Education. So, a lot of jurisdiction. You know that in the Ministry of Education there is a sector for pre-school education, primary, secondary, higher and higher, that these sectors in their bodies also have other bodies dealing with the creation of a higher education policy, starting with the research department, then some institutions, etc. So these are all the bodies that used to do this job. Today we are doubling, and if we see that we have already adopted one national educational council, this is a three-fold cost of citizens, i.e. an imposition on the back of Serbian citizens. You know that two or three months ago you voted with your majority National Educational Council, which we Serbian radicals were against for the reason that one bureaucratic body, a bureaucratic governing body, would be an integral of the majority of this assembly or the exponent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It means that one such body is not created that would create and only mean doubling jobs without talking about spending budgets. If you have already accepted and voted on the National Educational Council, my aim is to remind you and the citizens of Serbia who are the competences of this National Educational Council, what is the composition of this National Educational Council, to conclude that the formation of this National Educational Council is unnecessary. For example, the composition of the National Educational Council, which you voted and adopted here, just to tell you from which structure it is, starts from our institutions, our institutions, all the way to union organisations, religious institutions and representatives of national minorities. Here, just to see how many members of the National Educational Council of University Professors or a professor with a doctoral dissertation. Three academics, one member from the Mother of Serbia, were elected to the Educational Council. That's four professors. Then, we have four members from the Belgrade University teacher's office. That's eight professors. Then, we have one member from the order of teachers of other universities whose founder is the Republic: University of Pristina, University of Belgrade, University of Nis, University of Kragujevac. It's 13 university professors already elected to this National Educational Council. Then, there are high school members, from school, from vocational schools. Then you have members of representatives of religious communities, members of national minorities, union representatives, respected businessmen, etc. If we add here that there are at least five other professors with a doctoral dissertation, that means there are about 20 teachers who are prominent experts and competent experts to replace this national council of 15 members. This would avoid those costs of 14 million for the start of the work of this National High Education Council. That's what we Serbian radicals are generally against, because we don't want to make this troubled people, who barely make up the month after month, to continue to make new accusations and needless spending of budgets, and also create a bureaucratic body that narrows down autonomy and universities, colleges, or students themselves. The problem with this law is not just that we're signatories to the Bologna Declaration. None of us Serbian radicals are against various signatures of declarations, conventions that will advance our educational and teaching programme or, as you say, the study programme. We're opposed to someone from abroad serving us something that some representative of our government will smile and sign there, and in fact it goes to the harm of our young generations, our young academics. It's an example of this law. If you adopt that law that you've had problems with breaking up NIS, it'll do us both economic and economic damage, but if you adopt one of these system laws for higher education, and the consequences will be much greater and difficult to correct. These are the problems that are generally related to this law on higher education. We had two laws about the university before this law. When I worked at the Ministry of Education in 1998, there was a Law on the University. I remember that was the time when two commissions were formed: the Government Commission and the Ministry of Education's commission. For almost a year there was a public debate over the law. Eminent experts, professors, doctors were involved, all those who could contribute to the work of such a law. I remember that law was passed in 1998. It's one of the best higher education laws that's been adopted in our history. The law, with some small changes and additions, could rule for decades. There was no need to change it. What you're doing today, in fact, is what many NGOs are doing, those who are doing our country, those groups of people at university and colleges who have participated in the creation of this law, because, apparently, at least I haven't seen any public debates, some round tables, some controversy that has been conducted about this law, which would be passed through information funds. That means everything was done by order and signed by order. In this law, the particular problem is that the student is not at the centre of attention, but the Bologna Declaration and some of the accessories that you have done so that the Serbian government can freely centralise higher education. If the student were at the centre of attention, it wouldn't have happened if the student had only been given a double exam. What if he doesn't pass next time? Then he listens to class again, but it's not defined what happens after that. So no one knows student rights after that. Not to mention the European credit transfer system, where students who have the conditions to be on the budget should have 60 European points, and whoever has the money and can pay, he needs 36. What's gonna happen? It will happen that those good high school kids type in selected courses, and those who don't have money won't be able to have access to the chosen directions. That's the point. Not to mention the money that's given in private colleges. There is one thing to mention here, which is that criteria for obtaining work permits and accreditation of the study programme are tightened. But that's a little bit. With 60 regular professors, it should raise the number to at least 70, as it would avoid private colleges doing nothing like mushrooms and creating chaos in education. I therefore appeal to all MPs of this assembly not to accept this law in principle, for it will do great harm to our higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18519	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Momir Markovic has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 13 and all other members of the bill the word "National Council" be replaced by the words "National Educational Council", in an appropriate decline. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18520	Ladies and gentlemen, I guarantee that this is one of the least-viewed assembly sessions, for the simple reason that Serbian citizens see the transfer of the trial to B92, on the most hated TV, but it has first seized the exclusive right to transfer the trial. There, ladies and gentlemen, the first Serb helps another Serb defend Serbia and Serbia's national interests, and the last Serbs run Serbia here. So much for that. I have submitted an amendment to Article 13, where I ask that the "national council" be replaced by the words "national Educational Council", for the simple reason that we have already established the Educational Council, the institution of the Educational Council is already functioning. In this institution, the educational council sits academics, the respected faculty professors across Serbia, the prominent experts and the distinguished personality sits and the only reason why, besides the national one, you make another, you throw out the self-editious, I guess we don't need education. We've gone so far that we don't have to think about education and raising future generations. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it smells all over Serbia for extraordinary parliamentary elections. Don't play, bring the end of what you've done so far, call the parliamentary elections. The will of the citizens of Serbia is not as it was when you deceived her and after the Bulldozer of the revolution in 2000 and 2003 when you said, we are not those of three years ago, we have changed now, we have washed yellow, now we have flooded a little bit, now we are a little different and we are breathing and smelling. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Educational Council needs to get the information from this law that is not yet under that previous law, but the National Educational Council is this body that you can, and which you need and which you have to do all the work you're assigned to some phantom group that you need to form. Whom will you take to the National Council and be more respected than the members of the National Educational Council? Whomever you will in the national council without having previously chosen; to be clear, and the National Educational Council has been elected by the Assembly on your proposal and your majority has been elected. So these are the people you've chosen and I don't see any reason, unless you're supposed to host some who've retired a long time ago. Otherwise, this law clearly provides for what you will do with those who are 70 or 80 years old, and were once scientists, scientific workers, unless you are going to foster them, and besides what you are preparing for them in one of these members, you will also put them on the national council. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that when the voting day comes, you will vote in favour of my amendment and, instead of the National Council, give your authority to the National Educational Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18521	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18522	Dear colleagues and colleagues, just to briefly refer to what my party colleague Momir Markovic has suggested to you. In fact, Article 13, we said we should delete it, it talks about the accreditation and quality check committee. It's a commission today, and tomorrow, we know, it'll be an agency. We're basically against it. What's she supposed to do? It's mostly a surveillance function. She needs to control quality and we think it's taking something that's the task of administration and the Ministry. It's been under surveillance so far, and it can do this in one way that it's socially justified. We suggested not to adopt this Article 12, because you see what the National Council says, it can organize working bodies, its working committees. So it's a further expansion of a bureaucratic apparatus that has no boundaries. If only you had said, these commissions are forming, so that we know what's going to happen, but unlimitedly, there can be an administrative and unnecessary apparatus, parallel to the Ministry of Education. What does that mean? This means that funds from the budget will be poured out on these bodies, and we already know what the situation in education is, what the financial situation is, and we know what personal dhots are. You'll say it's not much, but a little by little, you take a little bit here, a little there, this agency, that agency, and then the education will be in such a difficult financial situation partly because of this. We point out that in such a difficult situation, when we have insufficient financial resources, this represents one ballast and a waste of social resources and the resources of taxpayers. Therefore, again the message to the Ministry, if you are not able, if you are already giving up any responsibility in this area, don't even run that area. You want your responsibility to take on a national council, he'll lead your policy and he'll be responsible, and if there's no progress, how you defined in the education process, if there's no quality in that teaching, then they'll evaluate whether they're adequate personnel, they'll give accreditation. I'm asking you one more thing, there are six university centers in Serbia, as you predicted, and how will you avoid majorisation? Suppose, Belgrade's largest, when writing the law, the absolute majorization of Belgrade, wrote from "a" to "sh" Belgrade's. Yesterday you heard their names, you know it's a former defector from the Communist Party, old-timed personnel, who went to another totalism called globalism today. The form is the same, the matrix is similar and they don't have a hard time getting along in this either. So, how are you going to avoid majorization, because I'm afraid of something else, that there will be a monopoly here, that in this way you bodies, with these powers, are creating one monopoly body that will surely undo all the activities of the administration, or the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18523	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18524	Just with concrete data to confirm what we stand for as an opposition to this concept of forming these quasi-state institutions, as well as to the National High Education Council and this accreditation and quality check committee. If you look at Articles 10, including 13, which determines the composition of these bodies, the quasi-organs, it is stated that it is not possible to do so, but it is not stated that members, or members of NGOs, can not. They can, they're protected as honeys, they can go anywhere. You see, politicians are being persecuted as something that needs to go on fire. As soon as he's a politician, so, an immoral person, he can't be. As soon as he's the director, he can't be. Probably someone who's the best expert at some college, was elected Dean, and he can't, and why? Because it's behind some governance structure, simply, democracy destroys quality and profession, which is directed by NGOs. For those in white, black, yellow, green, and other colors to harass, harass, and push their own. Look, please, this is where I see three professors from law school. You see, if we start from the assumption that the national council, the one you form, the pandan of some educational institute, the Educational Institute that once existed as an administrative organisation, which performs professional affairs, and what Mr. Vesenovic said when the University Act was passed, the State was taken care of, what could be the jurisdiction, where the distance from the government, from the Ministry, from the university and from the university. You've got it all wrong here. Imagine, in Article 11(9), you say – National advice sets out standards for issuing work permits, and the permit to work is issued by the Ministry. So if standards are something that's being translated into an act, it's a general act, and a general act of sublegal character is bound by a state body. So, my people, who wrote this? If you had written that this general act on standards for issuing a university permit or a university institution brings the government to a proposal, although it doesn't matter whose proposal it stands on, and the Ministry is applying, I would have understood that. But now how to transfer something that is in that hierarchy of power, I'm talking about it, not the hierarchy of the profession. That would be around you -- the local community prescribes criteria and the mayor applies them. Well, when would it go to Nenad Bogdanovic? He'd say-- people, who wrote this is insane. Now, by that logic of the matter, you've painted it not only on these provisions on the National Council, on the Accreditation Commission, on the reviewers, on the Government, on the Ministry. There's no real distance and dimension to what's professional and what's government business. Who in which hierarchy stands. You've devalued the Minister, the Ministry. You say - the minister and the special ministry, because you have not made a difference in some later members, where you mention the minister as an individual and the Ministry as a state body. I don't know why NGOs are erosioning this country's legal system with these bill proposals. And you, as some authority, accept everything. Only the label is sufficient - European, reformist. Well, wait, guys, this has nothing to do with it. But never mind, it's important that it sounds nice. And here most of Europe is at all costs and whatever Europe looks like. So you put some sexual abuses in here, and I think it's kind of puzzling to talk about the provisions of laws that NGOs push through, force-inflicted, devalue colleges, devalue professions, devalue teachers, and talk about some autonomy and some independence. Whether this commission is an expert body, an expert of the National Council or a Ministry. You'll see later, there's not even the possibility of running a administrative dispute. There is no possibility of judicial protection of certain rights either. Is that what the Bologna Charter says, etc? It doesn't say for sure. They wouldn't do that. Now, that's that erosion and that's the destruction that's going on. If you wanted to create an organ where you're going to cure vanity, by nature very vain categories of people, quite normally because they're vain because they're strong intellectuals, strong as individuals, so if there's no possibility that it's all going well, so let's make organs, then say, we need to please Dejan Popovic, this one in Nis, this one over here, that one over there, etc. But say it, it's much more honest. You planned, I don't know, about 14 million to form the National High Education Council. Guys, what are we talking about? We're gonna lose track of this. Well, of course, the state doesn't need to lecture the university in these professional matters what the teaching program will look like, and what quality studies will take place. Why, for example, did you not raise the quality of studies and lectures to university level? Since I agree that in our university system, so set, and if his relationship to colleges is looked at, that recession turns out to be something of honor, without the essence. Why didn't you, for example, get control of the over-quality education process in colleges within the university. For not taking advantage of one point of academic freedom and the autonomy of the university in that sense. No, it's in the driver's office, where the funds are, in that political one, it's all being carried out here. So maybe in 1989 and 1990 a good professor of finance, with a relatively good law since 1991, later erosion, erosion, and now he's a vice-rector. From the assistant minister, the deputy, the vice president, and now we're holding it. It's similar to other schools and colleges. You don't get it. State universities need to be dimensioned, guarded. They're the basics of academic studies. They're not these schools anymore, and they're the karics, and they're making their own money laundromats. It's not a university. You all know that. And even you teachers who go there to teach, do some gigs, you'd never go there if it wasn't for the situation that the state doesn't have enough resources to pay for the profession. If the state were to pay the profession to you it would be beneath you to go to BK to teach, Ljubomir Hungarian BK, the Florist BK. It would be beneath him to go there, to the academic Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18525	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18526	This amendment has been motivated in the same way as the amendment to article 10 on the elections, although, contrary to some speakers, I believe that the accreditation committee is very important. She should contribute to her work to seduce order into a chaotic state in our higher education. We have to figure it out first. But the choice is as complicated as in article 10 of the election of members of the National Council. Again - public ads, etc., without any need and deadlines, and so I suggest that all of this be simplified. The purpose of the amendment is as with the previous member, just to simplify the selection of members of the accreditation committee, because I spoke earlier - we will be elected by the spring by the members of the National Council. It'll take us a few more months to pick out members of the Accreditation Commission. We're not getting this commission until June next year, and she'd have to start working right away. That is why it needs to simplify the selection of members of the Accreditation Commission so that she can start working immediately, because she has a lot of work to do in the domain of our higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18527	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 13th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposer's representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18528	In Article 14(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The draft law on the appointment of a reviewer writes - the Commission appoints reviewers on the basis of a public call from the order of internationally recognised domestic and foreign universities etc. It is then further noted that the Commission provides data protection on which of the reviewers has been requested, that no one knows who the reviewer is. I suggest that the involvement of a foreign scientist should only be exceptional if we don't have colleges or scientists to write reviews. As far as secrecy is concerned, it was discussed on the Committee, and it was even the idea that Gaša Knezevic would be a secret elaborate, that the reviewer would not know who submitted the draft. But I don't think there's any need for that. One who has been appointed reviewer, if he is a professional person, professional enough, if he enjoys authority among colleagues in his profession etc., there is no reason to have a secret and not to know that he is a reviewer. He can always answer, even though he writes a negative review or just a few remarks, to deal with those with whom he wrote the review agreements, and he says, "I wrote it like that." I'll give you concrete examples, say, of a large number of magazines, including ours. So the magazine "Technika" or some other, when you send them some scientific paper for a magazine, it is sent to a reviewer from a particular area and often is not given the name of a reviewer to avoid a fight. I always told the editors, when I was a reviewer, feel free to say that I'm a reviewer, even if I write a completely negative review or give a series of remarks, let the author come to me and we'll talk, we'll see what's going on. It's serious business, and I don't see any particular need to stick to the name of the consensator in some kind of secret. That was a motive for why I wrote the amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18529	I thank Professor Simonovic. The People's Messenger, Gašo Knezevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18530	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, this was indeed one point of debate on the Education Committee, because there are two concepts concerning reviews. For some of the public, work means the highlight of democracy. It is so in political life. However, when it comes to scientific reviews and reviews on the establishment and quality of existing or universities that arise, I fear that there are very few experts on the domestic market and that these experts often cannot resist the pressures of those who want to achieve something. That's why it's my option, the option of secrecy. Mr Simonovic presented it correctly, I thought secrecy could be two-way. So, that the reviewer doesn't know who he's reviewing, nor do the reviewers know who's gonna be their reviewer. We're going to get rid of a lot of tensions in this society, and we're going to prevent the possibility of buying reviews. The late Minimax often spoke - everything has its end, including Minimax, and everything has its price. I'm afraid if we don't take this warning seriously, we're putting many of our institutions in a position to be on firm, real foundations, to question from the very beginning. Some of my friends were international reviewers. The other day I heard the story that a review was given by a friend of mine for a university that has to do with Serbia, and it's about an international review, and it's about a grade break. That story on me made a terrible impression because she, on the one hand, had a need, it was a woman, so I'm telling her, that the higher the score because it was about Serbia, and on the other hand, she was afraid that her big score would raise the question that whoever founded her is starting to doubt her. So if we don't know anything, we're on happier ground, then we're just in our science. Any additional information spoils that basic position. It is my only concern, and that is why I plead not to adopt this amendment, otherwise I find Mr Simonovic very nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18531	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Simonovic, at the presentation of Professor Gaš Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18532	I highly respect the opinion of my esteemed colleague, Gaša Knezevic, and I appreciate that, but if it is the reviewers who are highly professional and highly moral, then these dangers are greatly reduced, not to say that they do not exist at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18533	Thank you. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18534	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have not given the amendment, but we have the right to engage in this discussion. Exactly what counterpart Simonovic was saying is quite acceptable. There's an explanation. We don't mind that. What we heard as counterargumentation is also quite interesting. Over some of the data and facts that were told here, I wouldn't have crossed it. It's interesting that the minister and his assistant don't defend the amendments at all, and you see who occasionally defends the amendments, so you immediately understand who the author is, and who here is the quasipromometer of this law, the protector, and he's practically not defending him, and he should defend him. We've been told we have few experts. I can't agree with that, at least when it comes to the medical profession that I belong to. We're even told there's an extra one these days, and we're even told that we need to debalance that extra early retirement. We may have a lawyer less accidentally, since you're a lawyer, so you're probably talking and representing your profession. I think we experts in all profiles have enough. If you think that the professional level of what our Belgrade University gives is not at some European and world level, that's another thing. But that's what you have to say. So you're doubting our experts' expertise, so we need strangers. If you are an advocate of the Bologna Declaration, you know well that two-way communication must be made possible between this world and us. So, I don't mind if there's a stranger here, too, coming, but if the opposite direction of movement is established. In principle, we have nothing against this characteristic of globalism and mondialysm. You say shopping, that it's extremely unfair, if we talk about expertise and science as top value, that we talk about as a category that we can trade with. I'm not saying it's not there. We know some professors of law who, of course, plagiarized our greats of legal thought, so today they are prominent experts and recognised international experts, and are located in high-level forums both with us and in the world. I'm not saying it doesn't exist. What's he got to be afraid of if it's professional authority to tell the truth that something's wrong and something's wrong? It's probably not a calm conscience. You say there's a jungle like this with us and there's gonna be everything and everything. You say, if you establish confidentiality and reviewer and whoever needs to make a review, you stop buying. You won't. Because if corruption exists, if anyone who's a reviewer is corrupt, he's going to tip off that guy, here's your project in my hands, do you want me to do it faster or slower or it's going to stand in a drawer for months. So it's not solved by these instruments. I support what Professor Simonovic said. There is one more thing - said MP Krasic that certain people are an hour of NGOs and the hour is ministers, so we don't know what you are, divided personalities? And you're government when you can grab what you can. When you can't rule, then you'll be an NGO and then you're looking for a breakthrough in power and power through an NGO. All I'm saying is that this body will be able to be subject to this exact manipulation. I don't see how to defend myself from that. I wish someone would give me the right answer. I see a single dam, that's why I started this sentence. We have the Serbian Academy of Science. You're attacking her from NGOs fiercely, but it's our rapper for the highest attainable level in science, in art. If we won't respect our institution, and if we want to demean and destroy it, that's our problem, that's what we'll pay for. In my opinion, I think that the institution needs to hire people, and certainly not from this so-called. the NGO sector, it's a government sector, just some other foreign countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18535	Replica, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18536	Your Honor, I'm obliged to intervene. The gentleman is imputing. I wasn't even talking about the lack of experts in this country. I only said as an example that my friend, who was Serbian, participated in the German project and gave a review to the German university. Let's get serious and start working here seriously. I was talking about the principle issue raised by Professor Simonovic. I don't even care what member of the law it is. This is a completely principled question. The first time I went out for this pay phone today, and I'm gonna avoid it, because the completely wrong pendants, some labels will be put on some people because of my smallness. Please, one more thing I want to say out loud and clear. I work at law school, I don't take money in the Assembly, I don't ever take money from the state, not even when I was a minister. I've always worked at law school for certain reasons that are extremely rational. I've never been a member of any NGO, unless this assembly is an NGO based on your interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18537	Mr. Momchilov, you've caused a replica. Just to let you know. I'll give you my word, no problem, I just want to say that your exposure has come up with a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18538	I'm misread here and intervened in that direction. My colleague got excited. I don't know why he got excited. You said clearly, I wrote down - we have few experts. If you don't believe it, a stenogram exists, you can easily check it. That's why I intervened. Don't get angry. I don't want any imputations here and anyone to be imputed to anything. I'll call everything by my name and name, it's not hard for me, and don't be afraid of what you're going out, I'd like you to go out as much as possible, to get quality proposals here, which I know won't be adopted, because this is already something that's being drawn, which is agreed on, and this just has to be done technically. But what we're talking about, Mr. Duke, it's because of our public, it's because of the people. Come out, let the people see what you say and what you stand for. You will have your supporters in the people for sure, but I also think that we Serbian radicals present ourselves with this story in the right light of our people. So what you said, you said, and there's no imputations, no NGOs. Now, don't let me tell you Waterelic, to name you a bunch of other names, there's no need, because they're not the subject of this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18539	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Vladimir Homan and Miloljub Albianic submitted. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education did not accept this amendment, with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible. The People's Messenger Nadika Momirov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18540	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, regardless of the quality of co-operation of the resolution ministry and all parliamentary groups and respect for the proposal, I believe that there is a need for further clarification of some amendments, in order to avoid the possibility of oversight due to such extensive work. Namely, the G17 Plus parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 14 concerning the competence and work of the accreditation and quality check committee. It is clear that the Commission's work should be independent and efficient and that checks are carried out on the basis of clearly adopted criteria by the national council. The adoption of this amendment would avoid the possibility of a reviewer from one area to review in another area. For example, a reviewer from the field of natural and mathematical science is reviewing art. In this way, the level of efficiency of the Commission's work would be increased in any case.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18541	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18542	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Mis Petronijevic and I have submitted this amendment to delete Article 14's position. Otherwise, the position of the 6th member reads: "The Commission shall provide data protection on which of the reviewers has submitted a request under Article 4." My colleague Petronijevic and I, and the entire SPS parliamentary group, feel that this solution is not the place. In fact, we believe that by eradicating this attitude, we provide the public with the work and the public with the names of the reviewer for making up the report on the study programmes for the accreditation of colleges and other higher education institutions and for giving an opinion on the issue of work permits. At least that's what it seems to us, internationally recognised domestic and foreign experts, as stated here in the opinion of the 3rd member, should not, in our opinion, be out of the public eye. On the contrary, we believe that they should work publicly and be subject to the court of the professional and scientific public. In fact, no matter how many reasons you have found, to tell the extra-sciences, in order to make it a secret, we look at it with a very, in our opinion, a logical point of view. If the law is so clear, at least in this part, I'm not talking about someone else, and if it mentions what the commission is doing, it's taxing, it's the possibility that the commission can appoint a reviewer, the commission is making a public call to elect a reviewer, so publicly everything, it's not logical for us to keep the name of that reviewer a secret. Why? For what reason? If we go to the system to question something, then I'll rather doubt that the reviewer can do his job incorrectly, when he's sure his name is protected, rather than vice versa when he knows his name will be available to the public. He gives judgment on certain things and gives his opinion that needs to be respected by the commission, and if we start to think the way I've heard it should protect the reviewer from any kind of pressure, possible compensation, blackmail or the like, who guarantees that in this particular case it can't be. Excuse me, he's giving the court a few very important things that are public, known, and his name is hidden. We don't see the logical process in that, especially when this is all public. Why? When everything is public and they are chosen on the basis of a public call, there can be knowledge of which person they are concerned. It's no secret for someone who thinks badly and who has bad intentions, and who possibly in one illegal way, pressure, blackmail, bribes, wants to provide himself with something. No, but I'm sorry, it's something that the Socialists think is the opposite of the way we think, and especially the work of the Assembly and the essence of this law. Why would we talk like that? Conversely, everything should be public, including the reviewer that he knows that his name and his name will be available to the public, and he will, logically, seem to us, take much more care of the essence of what I am giving an opinion on, rather than some other aspects. No, in the opinion of the Socialists, colleagues Misa Petronijevic and myself, who have submitted this amendment, some logical reasons why this is done. Excuse me, there are far more important things in the country than giving an opinion on the elements contained in this article, where people are publicly born and everyone knows that they are giving their own judgment on it, not to mention the work of the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and some other institutions that are independent, have their integrity and no one questions, when the composition of these people's names, whether their opinions will be professional and whether they will defend the profession, their name, and the title they bear. We think there's no room for this kind of solution here. I don't want to think about it that way, but if someone wants to protect themselves from possible criticism, why not stand under the document that the reviewer, this one and that one signed a certain report, gave consent to the issue of the permit, assessed the character of the study programme, said it was okay or wrong. What are we afraid of? We're afraid that name will be called tomorrow. I'm fully convinced that the more he insists on anonymity, that it's the other way around, that there will be more and more suspicious things. We have a case in the judiciary that we are constantly respected for mentioning names or cases. And believe me, if there were no National Assembly or MPs of the National Assembly who spoke of it, no one would have the help of the citizens. Those in the judiciary when they talk about independence, they need to be clearly provided with a material position and passed laws, and they will build justice, and to the citizens as they are. We'll talk about who and how he puts pressure on the judiciary and what is done in the judiciary, but I'm telling you that we don't see the logic of not being under the review signed the name and last name of the man who did it. Let the professional public know, if he's so respectable, there's no reason to be afraid. On the contrary, I think it'll just be an argument more that the whole story about the reviewer, about his obligation and the content of this law gets serious. When the name and last name is known, we think it is good and when the name is known then I think that there are possible insinuations or possible ways of working that have been mentioned by one of the colleagues on this decision that the law provides for and that is why my colleague Misa Petronijevic and I have suggested that this solution be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18543	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18544	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few more words. The Commission shall ensure, that Article 6, Article 14, that data protection on which of the reviewers has been applied under Article 4 of this Article. Item 4 - reviewer submits his report to the commission within 60 days of the date of receipt of the commission's request. Therefore, it provides data protection on which of the reviewers was submitted. Who does data protection really come from? Whether data protection is provided by those who need to meet the conditions for obtaining a permit or by the public. If he's one of those who needs a reviewer to give an opinion, it won't be hidden, they'll find out first. So, those higher education institutions whose conditions or study programs are being watched will know who they are. If it's from the public, then it's only illegal, the public can't hide anything, and neither can it. If it is not to put pressure on the reviewer, and that must not be the reason for secrecy, because the reviewer and with this burden must tighten the loop and give an opinion that can explain to the public, above all to the professional public. The minister must make difficult decisions and be exposed to pressures. Shall we have secret ministers? A whole series of professions, very important, exposed to pressures, have to make difficult decisions. For these reasons, we believe that public security, that primarily the expert public knows who the reviewer is, brings the reviewer into an even greater function of responsibility, to take good care of how he gave his report. Someone can put pressure on him, let him do it, let him endure the pressure, so let him give his opinion, but let him endure the pressure of the public, especially the pressure of the professional public, if he didn't give his opinion correctly. For these reasons, we have asked to delete this position, although it is acceptable to amend Mr Simonovic and the previous two MPs, which also contain this part, as amendments are acceptable for us. So, don't hide from the public because it gives the possibility of a poorly arranged job, smuggling, and everything else. The Commission must keep in mind whether he, who has been given the reviewer, is really in line with these criteria and puts his responsibility to the public court. And the reviewer also answers to the public court, regardless of the pressure, whether he did his job right. Those who have applied will find out who the reviewer is and for them is no problem at all. For these reasons, we ask for support to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18545	The word has an MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18546	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to get involved in this debate, since, as the director of a research institute, I have passed the process of accreditation of the institute, meaning that I have introduced international standards of quality. It was about standards, and it was about accreditation of labs. Similar accreditation procedures should be carried out both at universities and at universities. I really don't see any need to advocate the confidentiality of the reviewers, the people who need to carry out that accreditation, to give their opinion on the fulfillment of the conditions, because that same commission, since also in the institute where I used to work and run it, was just an international commission that did the accreditation, so they're made up of a list of people who were authorized to do the job. They came, carried out the evaluation, signed and said what is in accordance with the applicable rules and international quality standards, and what corrective measures should be implemented and what should be done additionally, possibly, if not agreed. Such an accreditation process should also be carried out here, so what Professor Simonovic has proposed and what his SPS colleagues suggest, I think it has a basis to accept. There is no basis for the confidentiality of the reviewers, the people who will be accredited, i.e. The assessment of compliance with the conditions, because if the institution fails to meet the prescribed standards, these people should give corrective measures and that institution, under this law, has the right to run again and seek a re-evaluation of accreditation, and if it is rejected, then definitely stop working. I would like to join a proposal from my SPS colleagues to accept this amendment. I don't think there's any real basis for being in some kind of secret the names of people who need to do such an important and responsible job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18547	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The proposaler's representative accepted this amendment, and a report of the Legislative Committee has just arrived, which considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The Committee for Enlightens the adoption of this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18548	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 16(4), which reads: "The accreditation process is carried out in the process of establishing at the request of the founders and in the process of introducing new study programmes at the request of the higher education institution and ministry". The Government proposal states in Article 16(4): "The accreditation process shall be carried out at intervals of five years and at the request of the founder, or higher education institution". This amendment is intended to specify in particular one option in the accreditation process, i.e. to legally determine: that accreditation is carried out on request, as required, or at specified intervals. This way we can do both, as it suits whom. This is also how the Commission itself, which is under the appeal of the expert public, collapses with regard to the seriousness of the implementation of the accreditation process. It is normal for the first accreditation to be carried out in the establishment of a higher education institution, which is initiated by the founder. The Commission itself, i.e. its composition, depends on how the accreditation process will be implemented until the end, given the great and broad powers given to it by the provisions of this law. The accreditation itself shall confirm the standards set out in Article 11 by the National Council, which shall also be called upon at the beginning of Article 16. Thus, we can freely say that the National Council, even indirectly, participates in the accreditation of higher education institutions, i.e. study programmes. As members of the accreditation committee themselves will be able to manage in this business, it remains to be seen, and since many members will drag ballast institutions with them from where they come from, as well as the interest of their employers, professionalism will hardly rise above some personal aspirations. As far as the study programmes are concerned, the amendment provides for the implementation of the procedure at the request of the higher education institution and the ministry, therefore, without any time limits, or if necessary. The Ministry may periodically monitor the accreditation performed if it is an accreditation for the introduction of new study programmes. The greater the impact of the ministry's inspection, in terms of monitoring and adequate response in certain situations, will become less and less likely for possible abuses that can arise by grouping the interests of the accreditation board members. If there is a loss of accreditation for the study programmes, i.e. failure to fulfil the conditions, the loss of accreditation for the issue of public documents shall also be considered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18549	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, People's Ambassador Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18550	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another occasion to mention, the amendment intervened, the importance of NGOs. There were talks about it and what if someone from an NGO is under the guise of a university professor, and what's very possible, look only at those who have been doing draft laws, how many of them are in this or that, directly or indirectly. There's a lot of good data being stored, and you can't figure it out easily, except that you're pathologically searching for members of NGOs. It doesn't occur to us. Their behavior and the adoption of this concept of law very well says that they had no excessively national interest, but some different interest, someone else's. What I would like to draw attention to, is that what if, in the concept of such a proposal for accreditation procedures for accreditation, let's say, study programmes, a member or a government organisation's membership is found. Now, look, you'd say that more theoretically -- if it's a government organization, it's less conspiracies, it's under some kind of control. I keep to myself the right, just like we who in the party have analyzed this problem, that it is very often the people of the embassy who are engaged in another parallel activity. It is quite clear to us that our Ministry very much likes to practice and be an attribute of different courses, different guidelines and ideas, and all through projects offered by governmental and non-governmental organisations. Here, on the site of a list of those, that I don't bother the public and that I don't read what they're offering, and who's in the line of reform for education, who's in the order of enriching content and teaching programs, who's for institutional reform of educational institutions. What do they have in common? It's common they want to change something. What is the interest of another government when it comes to such a sensitive problem as the national education system? Here, on the case of the VUS project, the government's Austrian organization, this is in my hands in something different translation, but the hard content, it was two or three years ago, when I refused to apply. Of course, I was no longer a member of the council of an institution, because I didn't want to apply to this kind of thing as head of some department, to help out, to get some computer, some kind of video-bit, some nonsense that, when they came, these delegations shared along the way and the primary schools, the outreach departments. It's not what it is. It's what it is. Here's the CDP program, which includes a program to develop scientific and teaching plans. In the preamble of the app - they can compete with those who are interested in introducing new teaching content and can even train assistants and teachers. For how long? In a month or two. In a month or two, you will train an applicator, who will return to college and may enter this committee of consent, for example, on the curriculum and program. And he's dressed for a month or two in the middle of Austria or in another outpost. What's his goal? New teaching content. So they understand that we've been through a rough time. How do they appreciate our time? We appreciate him in the election. How we've been this time. What those from the Austrian Embassy and government are asking themselves, where teaching staff were not motivated to develop new content. They didn't know, they didn't have the literature, and our lectures were like that, only that they could reach the basic levels of knowledge of things, and the higher content that I'm not talking about. They basically rated us that way. Now they're setting this up nicely, you're applying nicely to the program. What are you applying? Because it'll be a good reference, if you want to work out anyway. It's very good when you get back, you come to your college, cobayages very well-schooled, because you have a good reference, who knows what kind of watermark on that diploma they give you, but that's a good payoff, too. What you see and what you point out, it's 4,000 euros a month, if you go to learn, so how to make teaching content for your class and change it, and then you pass the exam with them. Not everyone can get that. It must state in its programme that it will co-operate with local universities in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Who, for example, contributes to working with a university in Sarajevo, Mostar and so on, will get credentials sooner and his application will be accepted. So when he comes, when he spends that money well for a month or two, he learns something more, and if it's more than two months, it's going to be five or six thousand euros, that's where he learns something, and he's given everything for nothing. The facility will get the library, the book, that's the cover for the scientific and teaching council that he approves of going abroad to school. And the bottom line is, this guy's gonna get a little rich, learn something else, and then they're gonna ask him nicely when he gets back, the ones who sent him, "Did you do the job well when you came back to your home institution?" The moment the university accepts the modified program that you came to change, they taught you in Austria to change it, or methodology or content, that's what it says, an existing subject, submits documentation to pay off other wars. He has to write it to them to give him another war. You see how you're conditioned by the government's organizations. And what do NGOs do that give some multimillionaires to destroy everything? So, about the progress and difficulties you had when you went back to your home institution, whether someone is sober or whether someone in the other council has seen it; because what you need is an audit of my teaching class, because I know how I teach internal medicine, what you teach me. Is the base on the slides different, whether the contents are different, and they are estimated to be poor content? Be careful, Serbia's Turajlic says, we had such terrible content that everyone else in the world was recognised. We've put a lot of pressure on these people, they've become masters and unnecessarily mastered, they've already adopted knowledge in basic studies, because we're so good, and she says it herself. So, these prominent people of ours, we've heard from other debaters that they're already handing over at universities or they're members of some similar committees out there, they're so competent. And we've had, as it's estimated, a bad program. We didn't even know what we were talking about, we didn't have any elemental contact. Does that mean that all our diplomas will never be no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. When someone applies to this, so when they go there to Austria or Salzburg, what do you say, wait, you come, you learn by that program of yours, who sent you here. What you're playing at, what's gonna happen to the Ministry on the site all alone like this... I understand, material financial benefits are listed, and that's fine, because it's impossible to understand why you're playing with an important segment of the great national interest – education. These are terrible consequences that have only been coming for years. Even if you were able to completely change this law, if you changed everything within three years, you gave the luft, you didn't accidentally give the luft, it didn't work, it won't work, it won't be good, there'll be a lot of resistance, remarks, so you give a three-month deadline, then six, then nine, then two years, then three years. If you had a clear belief that this was acceptable, this law would immediately come into force, you would have solved everything in three months. Obviously not, here's a written document about how it looks to apply to a government organization's website. About Sorosch, about women in black, about these committees of various lawyers, I'd rather not talk. But when it comes to blacking out, so everything that's ours, because all of us who talk, we ended up in this old, decadent, zero, zero system. So also Marija Bogdanovic, so she became a name, so look what she says, she's bitching at the former minister, who doesn't have colleges for water or electricity, where this leads, what she does, she cut our budget incomes. And now the minister is suggesting there won't be any money from the budget. He's setting the deans up as managers. Another aspect of the story, if I have time, I'd like to get a hold of myself, what in the process of accreditation for private universities and colleges, what if the ministry deprived itself of the right to just request periodic accreditation checks, not just in the establishment. What if once it's determined that in this Karic, it's working on some program that's really maybe the way he wrote it, then what? Well, I don't suppose he, Karic, is going to start an accreditation procedure that he knows won't spend more money than he has, pay and get money from those students. I think it was pointless to throw out the state's jurisdiction to check the program. Well, it's like decentralisation. Well, wait, if it's decentralisation, which you're putting under your hat, you're centralizing colleges, you're putting them under the hat of the university. Why the conference no longer has jurisdiction, there's one important one here, but why no more. Basically, here's a very abstract example. If someone had abolished a university like this, which would not have been agreed between the colleges on the proposal of the topic, scientific thesis, excellently, all medical schools know best the candidate in medicine what he's going to talk about. What couldn't they do? They wouldn't be able to verify the professor's calling. Why couldn't we? Everyone knows each other very well in the head. I'm speaking theoretically, therefore, about an abstract model, and not so much of a prerogative to the university, which, in fact, cannot, at least in our concept, be this particular as the massive structures of 30 or 25 colleges, to achieve the dominant level of the educational process, therefore, in relation to accreditation, should be cautious. If they don't, the amendments have already been proposed, amended, I mean NGOs, and I'm talking about the dangers of even governmental organisations of other countries, it can be very risky. Why can't someone from a private university push someone who came by with a VUS recommendation. They say, what an expert, so he got from VUS, who else has VUS. And he was a month or two there and the Kobajagi learned to revise the programs. She's throwing away our education, our regular professor or assistant, and now she's gonna come to me and review my curriculum and program. So, basically, that's why we think this provision should be put into effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18551	The government of the Republic of Serbia and joint MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic submitted to the 18th amendment in the same text. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Svetislav Krstic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic, but the amendment was withdrawn. The Committee on Education submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. We have a report here that later arrived on Article 25. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so it became an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Also in this subsequent report, the Legislative Committee considers it legal, so that it becomes an integral part of the bill. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 29th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18552	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming back to that other intriguing part of the story about this bill, which is the European system of portable points. So again we're repeating the story, we're not against what can be stabbed, stabbed, doing it in a way that we're least likely to hurt our curricula, or your teaching programs, or what you call educational content, so that we do so so that no one suffers reduction and that no professional or academic knowledge is achieved in a way that is more benign, which is simpler, which is more rapid. The point of the amendment intervention is precisely to eliminate weaknesses on a specific case. So, the entire set-up, the more amendments were led in that direction. We really can't accept that specialist studies will last a year. If that's how it's going to be within the health care system, then it needs to be clearly written, and if it doesn't, it's clearly written again. Today's specialization takes two or three years. How is a surgeon going to become a specialist in a year? How will the student become, although we have an amendment, but we are not obliged to read what you were correcting tonight, and the Government accepted, i.e. to be called masters instead of masters, to avoid academic and professional calling after six years of medicine. So, it would be unacceptable in a certain way to devalue the calling, and prioritize it, you ended up five years and now you're a master and a doctor of medicine. For another year, you're a specialist now. It's hyperproduction. This hyperproduction won't satisfy the world either. He can see the points, but, you know, in addition to his degree, when he starts with a diploma, there he'll have to write what he's been doing for a year, what a teaching program he had, what he's studied, because mostly the recommendations of the Bologna Declaration go in terms of practical education. WUSprograms, which I mentioned a little while ago, are also looking for this practical education. Look out, specialist for a year. So far, at least a year has lasted only theoretical teaching in specialist studies within medicine. As much as it's in chemistry, if someone takes organic chemistry, or analysis, or something else, I don't know, and I have no intention of looking at it. I have what I have in my hands and I know for sure how long it takes and what my profession has been going through for decades, and it doesn't bother anyone. Does this mean that subspecies studies will be abolished if such a battle continues? What's he doing now? Now everyone's gonna be a cardiologist all of a sudden. They also have technical colleges, they have rope specialties. They're completely abandoned. So, it's quite inconclusive, inconclusive attitudes, some kind of discrepancies. God asks you why it all had to be this way. It's really one big risk that we're going into and when we go into the field of points and we bring it down to the level of teaching councils, and the criteria are, I don't know, going to bring someone or not, that's a very complicated problem. Boiling within the study content of each individual subject falls to the scientific and teaching higher. How are you gonna stab that? How will the higher program, which confirms the university, the higher level of academic studies, the second and third, which must pass the level of the university, although these basic studies programmes are certified at the university and now, so on, how will this be resolved? How they'll agree with each other when someone takes 10 to 15 hours to fit in, when there's a lasting rivalry and a feeling -- so wait, but this is worth it. I don't care about histology, the surgeon will say, I need a practical class. It's going to be one big risk that I'm going to go into and I'm repeating again the question from the principle debate -- why, at least in public debates, the Ministry didn't give one practical model to make a parid-mothermatic study, one medical group, to make it look like a social field, social action, to see what it would be stabbed and what it would look like. Why didn't any of these applications of NGOs give an experiment in that direction. Let's let the study group do it, so that at some presentation on Zlatibor, he picks up all the deans and shows -- here, gentlemen, this is how the studies on your medical, electrical, or architectural college are going to look, and then people would know. Wait, these guys gave some guy, and since the Bologna Declaration said, you don't have to be all taxed, respect the tradition, respect the differences, respect the principles of organization that are closer to you; we're not asking you to translate it literally, so that we can get along with it and adjust something. That kind of norm could still be accepted. This will be the source of major problems in the practical application of the law and likely the first interventions in the amendments will be precisely about this. And not to mention what you're going to do when you have specialized studies of very close branches, where the teaching content of different subjects intertwined. It's impossible to please. And everyone's going to want to get a point, because the accreditation of the institution -- yeah, yeah, watch out, the point of chemistry, the point of histology, it means when I apply, and when I show up on the site, when I'm being watched by the one from Geneva and the one from Hong Kong, or the one from Russia, so look how much my college carries points, it organizes so many studies. My college has a higher rank. It's going to be a general kidnapping and a general grab about it, and you can't, you all have to do as it says here -- 120 to 180 points, or you have to go into the basic program of 60 in a year. So, one very bad concept and we keep proving to you from the example that it had to stop doing this a little bit, that it didn't have to work too fast, and I think that the Commission was in charge of making a predicate review in a short time, and it was convinced that it was doing a job that most of them themselves, in a previous period, wasn't convinced that this was the best way. When the executive command arrived, as they agreed, how it all came to pass -- we will have the opportunity to put, through practical examples in our amendments, a question, a visage, quoting the opinions of individual members, what they said publicly about such ideas. Then professional studies that have 180 points, which, when they get a number of points in specialist studies, reach the level of scores of graduates and academics. So there's a lot of ambiguity, there's a lot of things, but I hope that the motioner will accept some of this and accept, or MPs who listen to our reasoned objections, and if they don't accept it, the fate of this law will be as much as the fate of many, frequent revisions or finally change, unfortunately a new law. How many new laws? But when we come to power, we're going to have to do something good, clear, short, with a clear vertical, with clear definitions. What we had. We didn't make the one from 1998, but it was a decent law. I knew it. There were some grudges, the ones I called out, the ones that were out of a job, this one or that one. Who won't sign a labor contract that's lost his job. Well, don't sign the labor contract now, so you'll be out of a job. Now, let's say, uh, make a college rally so you can see the students, give you a cell phone, call you the minister. It won't work. But then it could. It could've been anything in October. So we think it's better to accept something and change, if you have an idea, that you eventually try to fully implement this law, but the longest period you've given is certainly longer than the period it takes to change power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18553	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, with correction, he submitted the Education Committee. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18554	If there was something wrong with these provisions, not only of Article 29, but it moves practically from the type and level of studies, meaning 25 members, the bill promoter has also found. He intervened with the amendments. He tried to correct what NGOs and the interactions of private interests of some people, who want to deal with education in private directorship, who invested capital and who intend to invest capital in private education, e.g. in this interaction lost masters and master studies, so the government intervened with Amendment 11 and added a new position 10th in the framework of Article 29. It was probably run by the very logic the predecessor talked about, that a certain number of points indicate how many years of study and what the condition is to start with a master's or doctoral, again in terms of points, some previous level of education. And in order to understand what I've been trying to amend, and as far as Article 29 paragraph 10 is concerned, it's now a new position 11, after this government intervention, for starters I have to call on Article 25, where it's said there are studies of three degrees. The first degree is basic academic, basic vocational, second grade is specialist professional and specialist academic, and what you later changed, and it comes down to master's academic studies, and the third is the level of doctorate. Now, obviously there's some logic in these points, so it's listed for master studies, as you now call it graduate academics, you've listed a certain number of points how long these studies have been and how many candidates have had to score points in previous education. This attitude of the 10th refers to doctoral studies, that's the third degree. These studies last, according to points 180, three years, with a previously achieved study volume of at least 300 points. Three hundred points indicate, no matter how, but five years of mastered education. Since it's degreeed, it could be 3+2, it could be 4+1 in the extreme case, and that's why I've limited myself to a total duration of five years. So, after five years of one level of education, meaning the second degree reached, it goes another three years to get to the third degree of education. I demand an amendment to the 10th point 1) after the word "basic" to the word "academic". Why? As you've written down, it's practically a result that only academic studies can be the basis for a third degree, and you have professional ones, you have these specialist ones, and in this way you deny what you've put in place as a principle that the entire schooling process has some levels, stairs and that permeable power, the permeability that a man is not confused at some level and that he can't go any further. I think this is the reason, first of all, for the lack of understanding of this system of points. I see you're nodding your head, which means you're sharing your opinion that that's the way it's supposed to be, but with points you didn't put it nicely. I remind you that the government has noticed that something is not responding, so in paragraph 10, it has deleted point 2). Amendment 11. The government says, "In the present position of 10, becoming item 11 in point 1), the word "magistar" is replaced by the words "diplomic academic", and at the end of the text the point is replaced by the point, and point 2) is deleted. "You're spinning my hand because you haven't read the amendment. The government erased this second part, where the third level of study for each category lasts 240 points. In terms of what it is, it's four years. The government gave up because she saw a mistake in the bill. That's why you need to throw this word out at point 1) "academic". You did not respect the principle on which this law is based that there is a pass-through to the highest title, which is expressed in the levels of study and the number of points achieved in previous schooling. That's a logical problem, and I have to warn you about that. You've given all degrees a pass for a higher degree. The passivity is reflected in the fact that in the previous degree you have to have minimum points, minimum years, some degree achieved, and depending on what you've accomplished, you're going another year, two or more to get those points, passed those exams, got a second level, so you're going to level three. So someone could from basic vocational studies with an additional education, an additional number of points he scored in school, gain a higher degree and go to the highest degree. You deny it. Why? Because in this system of points and mathematics, you forgot that within these 300 points, which are the condition for entering a third level, what's called basic academic, is based on it. If you think that's supposed to stand, which I'm asking by amendment to delete, then you have to change the basic principles on which this law is based. Then you don't allow pass-through to the highest level, but there are some limitations and some bans. The Government has acknowledged this by submitting its amendment 11 to Article 29. It's a bill of law. The government also acknowledged this in these previous amendments, where it changed the concept of master studies. The government tried to correct what it felt was to build this law -- to remind you, these principles of higher education, unique teaching, passing, etc., the availability of all levels under certain conditions. That's the point of this amendment. But speaking of the subject of the European credit transfer system, I need to draw your attention to another major problem that will arise internally within the framework of the study programmes, within the year -- that each professor will insist that his subject draws as many points as possible, and here count on you to have the principle of academic freedoms, and the autonomy of the university, and the solution will be found in breaking political interests, so why not say the authority of individuals. Well, it's possible that sociology at law school becomes the most important subject by the number of points. It's possible for some year in medicine, I'm sorry, Mr. Momchilov, some peripheral object gets in a way far greater. You know, when something turns into a norm, even if it's the best wishes, the norm should contain a way and procedure to achieve that beautiful desire. It is never good to make a law that the proponent at the beginning knows has some shortcomings, so then as what you have introduced abroad, which is said - we must - let it be the first step, so we will change it later. This logic, the first step, and we'll change later, just to mention to you: the Law on Broadcasting, the Law on Public Information, the Law on Courts, the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, that I don't list yet, because we have so many laws that have been amended six or seven times in these years, the Law on Tax on Added Value, the Law on Fiscal Casses, the Law on Excises. The Excise Act has been changed for nearly six months, although this pay phone has been warned why something should not be done. And here we draw your attention, based on some experience, based on the state, objective insight into our higher education, there will be problems. These standards, these rules that you prescribe, what you want to implement in this way, in practice, will prove to be a bad way. It's not a problem that the road is bad, it's a problem that the consequences will be far more difficult. Of course, private universities and private universities should be developed. Why? To break the attitude of both universities and colleges. Besides, there are new people who have doctored, graduated, who want to do education. They should be given the opportunity to perform their work for which they are qualified. An alternative should be given to a man who wants to gain a higher education. It's all right, but give me the minimum that everyone has to meet. The minimum should be a guarantee that it is achieved regularly. Otherwise, here some, I apologize for having to say, some nonsense - the state is taking care of the efficiency of the study, please, that's ridiculous. Studying is not mandatory. She avoided taking care of efficiency. You know, you're either on the budget or you finance yourself, and the end of the story. The state took off its responsibility. That's right, Professor. Whoever wants to finish college, sits down, warms up the chair and ends up. The state finances it and welcomes it. Whoever doesn't want to finish, who wants to have a good time as a student, he loses the status of the one who's on the budget, so he's funding himself in some ways, he can't do it anymore, and the end of the story. There's only one piece of research here. We probably need a different law on scientific research, etc., but scientific research, university and university, it's an organic unity. Why don't you just say it? It's an organic unity. I agree, if you have a concept that two or three laws can fix it all, but that has to be taken care of. About the progress of these people. By moving on to what you imagined the university to be this independent educational institution, etc. How many professional careers will young people be stopped? How much? I'll just give you one example. I wrote about him. After 14 years, Slobodan Beljanski received his doctorate thanks to Momcila Grubač. How many people were stopped from doctoring? Now you're moving to university. Think about some colleges, not so controversial these technical colleges, but medicine, rights, think about what's going to happen to people who are potential and who are personnel. They had a specific form of advancement and acquisition of new education, and study trips abroad, study etc. Why do you do that? You want to drive a young scientist to Bogoljub Karic, then you've ruined the scientific career. That politician, he understands what a university is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18555	Anyone else want a word? Time's up for your parliamentary group on the amendments. Does anyone else want a word from other MP groups? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18556	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we continue this debate with no response, the talk of the deaf between the minister and the representative of the ministry and our MPs. This Article 29 is a member who specifically regulates important things and he is something that is the Bologna Declaration, absolutely and certainly is, he needs to be considered in detail. I just want to say first that the legislator, referring to the Bologna Process and the Bologna Declaration, has said that this law is European and deserves our great attention. Just yesterday I was free to say that this law is anti-European, and now I'm going to do it again. This law is anti-European first because of one general place, and that is, when Europe is making laws, I repeat, it first does an analysis, so look how many students there are, how long studies are going on, so look who has the material resources, and then sees what all institutions have, so I don't tell you what they're looking at and what they value. That's the kind of analysis we don't have. When I asked myself yesterday, both somewhat and the minister, how much do we separate from the gross national income for higher education, he told me 3.3%. I was almost moved that we could single out 3.3% of gross national income and I went to look for relevant data. Mr. Minister needs to know that we stand out for total education 3.3, and this is the 1999 data, which is often criticised by you who are in power today and who were before this government in power. Don't quote the data when it was some other government, but give me some fresh information. In 2004, I'd like to know how much we stand out for general education and how much for higher education. I couldn't find that information on the Ministry website. That's where I went first, hoping I could find that information. But let's just leave it alone. There are about 1% of Croatians, and we're probably giving up that much for higher education. I don't think there's a situation that's any different. It's safe, I'm not going to say that we're going to get Denmark, which sets out 8.1% of the national budget, which is an absolute record, if you're looking at OECD countries. But let's go back to the member now. Why is this non-European law? Because this is how a confused member, who speaks of the score, which is part of the Bologna process, deserves our attention. Speaking of the Bologna process, let me ask you if Germany has four-year studies, whether the Netherlands has four-year studies, whether France has colleges with four-year studies, basic studies, professional studies. Is there? What did Germany, Holland, do in applying the Bologna Declaration? You don't have to jump that far. I know it's hard for you. But what can you do? Don't make a mess. Now let's go to the very part of my intervention. I said item 12 should be deleted, where it is said: "Academic study programmes from medical science can be organised integrated into basic and master's studies, with a total volume of up to 360 ESPB points. "If the previous members are followed, if what is the intensity of the Bologna Declaration is followed, and we have said that the system is 3.2 plus 3, if we are talking about two degrees, undergraduate and postgraduate follow-up, if we are saying that there is vocational education and academic education, then this can't do this. The medical school has been going on for six years, and it only provides the expertise necessary for a person to be able to deal with health problems. Someone here during yesterday's debate said -- so it can be reduced in medical school, it can be directed, it can be done. In China, we have barefoot doctors with reduced aid, and that institution still exists today, although they are trying to eliminate it completely. There's someone in Russia, someone was talking about Russia yesterday, specific colleges. There's a pediatric college where it's directed, but there's no reduction in the duration of schooling. Why? The human organism is a macrouniverse, it's one connected whole, and one part cannot learn and the other can't learn. Now let me be a little bit simpler. If we get on the ground what is a good health system, let's do it a little bit, it's said that in most countries the system is good that primary health care stands out in the front lines. What's primary health care? It's that general practice doctor, or in many countries he's called a family doctor, who needs 80% of the health needs of citizens to solve. He needs to have an integral knowledge of the entire organism and of the whole man, so that 80% of the health problems can be solved. Here's the soup you made, so you mixed up professionally and academicly, you can't. We've been learning and training for six years so we can treat people. For two years, if we wanted to be masters, we now went and did a master's thesis and were trained to do scientific work on our own. That was the definition of a master's degree, I don't know if it's changing now, maybe it's changing. Then if we wanted the highest degree academic to win, we were a doctor and it gave us the opportunity to make an original contribution. In fact, what a doctor's degree was so far, I don't know what it's going to be, maybe something's changing, it was an original contribution to science. Maybe we'll break it down now, but that's why it was necessary according to our regulations for a certain number of years to get it. Now you've brought all this together, academic studies and vocational studies. He can't. You have to isolate that particular person or whatever it is you want to do. What I'm trying to say next, when we talk about specialist studies, medicine knows how to subspecies. I'm, like, a gynecologist, and that's why I had to educate myself for four years. It's not an academic degree, it's a professional degree. There's got to be a little less education for that, and somewhere more. To be a surgeon in America, it takes you six years, especially for some specialist branches. One of the surgical branches is, say, gynaecological surgery, and in France for six years, you have to further be educated. Where's that in yours? Don't just you, Mr. Prince, please, the representatives of the minister, let them come out nice and show off with their finger - Momchilov, here's your gynaecology, specialization is professional here, please. I know the minister is mad at us, so he won't communicate with us, I don't know what the reason is. We don't have anything against the man. Find me where that specialization is. Tell me -- we're not going to deal with this, since we haven't done it before, let it be in the Health Protection Act, let the Health Minister bang that head. That would be an exception, then, if we were moving education to another ministry. What is the result of such a mix-up of unnecessary problems? The result is that the minister, here I am telling you now that you are a representative, has signed a solution to establish a private medical school, and the other one in health is writing the opposite, can't and it's forbidden. They sit in the same government, and this one writes a letter and prohibits all healthcare institutions from helping run this university. He's writing a locust, and he's sitting in the same government. It's not the first time, though, nothing specific, it was when you went through those kids at school. Your minister signed a permit to examine children by some bizarre method, which is not dangerous, and this other one interferes, sends him a commission and then starts a war between ministers and pays for by an innocent school director. Professor Rodic, who is daily without bread, single mother of two children, who you chased to find a scapegoat in the two ministries' quarrel. To return to this amendment. Take a good look at how Europe handled it. We know you have a commission for the Bologna Process, we know you're doing projects. Which you haven't worked out a little bit with these projects, but you've allowed them to deal with general places and to repaint what everyone can read, only if they have a bit of goodwill and let's say if they have internet availability. That I'm not taking the time, because one of my colleagues is probably going to come out, this is as you've done wrong, and we just haven't found another way but to say that this is deleted, and you give us answers and solutions, we'll definitely accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18557	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18558	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join these criticisms brought out by my party colleagues regarding this particular Article 29, which is one of the essential members of this law. As it is given, and especially when it fits into this Amendment 9, which the Government has given in terms of amending this article, then I'm really afraid there may be some confusion, some confusion and there may be a problem after the adoption of the final text, and it may not happen again that the President of the Republic of Serbia will not sign the law because it is not adopted in the integrated text that is here, or that it is not completed as it was adopted, and I'm afraid that when we adopt these amendments, too, we will not be wrong. It is in Article 29 of the amendments given after Article 9, where previous Master's Studies were held, that now there are no more such studies, but there are academic studies, that we are not given the opportunity to enroll master studies by those who have completed vocational studies, but exclusively academic studies with 180 or 240 points. The changes give such an opportunity for graduate academic studies and graduate vocational studies to be able to type in and those who have actually completed vocational studies, to achieve these 180 points. I would immediately like to ask if, in fact, continuing with attitude 10, it is possible that those who have graduated from graduate academic studies are enrolled in the third degree or in the doctoral studies, in particular the point 2) of the doctoral studies are actually proposed to delete. In my view, this makes quite a mess, and I ask the representatives of the Ministry to take a closer look at what has been given in this integral material that we have received and in these amendments to the amendments made by the Government, which are generally accepted in parliament by the parliamentary majority. I absolutely join what my colleagues, Momcilov and Posukica, have said about medical studies and specialization, which is known how long it takes and how many specialist doctors to educate themselves to be able to perform the job independently and responsibly and responsibly. If it's regulated by this law, then it should have been regulated more precisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18559	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 30th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18560	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here are some more examples. I'm not a lawyer, but let me interpret the fact that the law is so much better if there are less general places and if there are some vague definitions of the type "extremely". This member carries two such specifics, one declarative, extremely vague, "top" which you often use to qualify knowledge, skills, etc., and now for magazines. It may be used somewhere, but we have different and more objective criteria, impact factor and other ways to determine where the work is published. Secondly, "extremely" which we are amending in Article 30, paragraph 4, where again, to make a concession to the medical profession, and I'm from that profession, so they'll get me wrong, if they're looking at us at all, to fight the rights that doctors should acquire, to make it easier for themselves, like some kind of reward, because the longest ones are studying or doing some important work, and the others are being cut short for it. So, the doctor, the doctor of medicine, if he's been studying for another year, according to your legal project, the specialist learns, which so far hasn't been recorded, I don't know the specialization of a year, then, if he writes some papers in top-level magazines in that time or later, he'll sum up the results of the papers, I guess, because the promoter doesn't say how, and then he'll defend his various works of the same or different high-level magazines and make it dissertation. Why, if we were on the trail of information or the idea that at least you didn't want those third-degree doctoral studies so much to pull into a break-in, to degrade them so much, why did you do it now in this new exception? Why even in a good law exception? It's not just that you're going to lead someone to the highest academic calling in an unfair and unfair way, and that they're going to skip one instance that's been common to the Master's Office so far. There have been attempts at academic practice to take oral doctoral exams, to skip the master's degree. Let's take that, if we did everything and devalue that master's degree, let's take the world to translate them into some other analogy, into some master's degree study, etc., but when we left them, as well as the Bologna Declaration, a crystal clear third degree study, according to them would be another -- doctoral studies, to keep them as such, and not create unnecessary expedient circumstances. There are two questions. The question is why are we doing this, why are we going against the recommendations of the Bologna Declaration? So, there's something we can do and more than we're asked to do, not be a knife in the back, something we can get through. This isn't the only place you didn't honor the Bologna Declaration. The second question being raised is how someone is going to realize the concept of doctoral studies, for whom, as far as I can see in what little explanation you've given, you haven't changed the concept. First of all, it's an individual paper, not to define it now, many here are doctors of science, but one individual paper that has, first of all, one academic meaning, scientific research character, creates a mutual correlation between theory and practice. So something special, which isn't pure bookwork. In some other studies, yes, but in some other directions, not here. In medical studies, you're always looking for the causality of something practical, something theoretical, and you're directing yourself, you're giving your personal seal in the process of making a doctoral thesis. It should come to a conclusion that will confirm something, that you have achieved some relative novelty in the medical profession. In this way you'll just say - I've been so good-quality that I've only been specializing in a year, I've become a cardiosurgeon, a neurosurgeon, so I've written papers about how I pulled out the tumor in the original way, and now I'm going to be a science doctor. It's a devaluation, it's an internal devaluation, it's a devaluation to the world. I've never, but I've never heard that there are between fellow specialists and colleagues who are in academic titles at colleges (docents, professors, etc.) security, remark. You want to get a doctorate, go get a Ph.D., that's your problem, you're gonna do science, and I'm gonna be a pragmatic field operative. You can't buy him a doctor's appointment right now if he publishes the papers. How many papers, what is a top-notch magazine, what an impact factor, what's more, you leave it to decide in another institution, etc. It's not even clearly put here -- any institution to make a decision as much as it would be to solve it in a lower act, if you bring things down to general recommendations, and it's going to go back to basic councils. What if someone wants to promote someone into a science doctor? It's going to break the criteria, so it's going to be a domestic magazine, not a foreign one. The other way around has been vass. You usually become someone and something in the profession, you get academic calling, you become a doctor, you become a science doctor, and that's how you affirm yourself in one area, that's why you write professional papers, they show up to you, and you stand as a doctor of medical science. It's a world practice. Take Lomonos's, here's the file, anyone can find it. Basic studies for six years, full time. Basic plus doctoral 11 years for clinicians, nine years for preclinical subjects; 11 years of powerful Russia and day-to-day doing so. What are we doing? Here, they have in the category of items in the Bologna Declaration, it's recognised, the way the diploma was evaluated and everything else. They took what they needed to be compatible. Now you wouldn't take a man from Lomonos to work with you, of course, I'd ask if he'd like to work here or not. So there's no need, this condescending, this unnecessary courtship to someone who didn't even ask for it. Give that declaration, her secret segments, to see if it says a doctor in medicine can. I don't find it, maybe there is, maybe I'm uninformed, but all of it, you say, that's our individuality, that's our mark and what you've accomplished so far -- we respect the tradition of the university, what they've accomplished so far. Do you know how to get into some magazines? Very complicated mechanisms, very complicated work, what reviews and recommendations you have to have and a member of what you have to be, who lay and what other devils you have to be to show up out of a middle like this somewhere. That doesn't apply to Germany, to these Western lands. If someone wanted to base themselves like that, they'd obviously have to collapse. In communication between the draft reviewers, there have often been talks about it -- it says, we are not good at these studies, it is often established at an election council of good atmosphere between professors and associates, teachers, those who are in the rapper that they can vote for any more calling, so find a man, be a professor, let's not bother, let's let the line of easier resistance. Now you basically lower the criteria. Then neither does that item stand, nor does that item of a friendly, smooth relationship between colleagues who produce hyperproduction. On the market, you'll see hyperproduction, whether it's worth it or not. With this form of university, college, infinitely unlimited, he'll have a chance to hyperproduce the professor. A third question that opens up a new dilemma: if someone like that doctorates as a specialist, doesn't finish master's studies, crosses everyone else, he automatically becomes an applicator for a doctor and professor. So far, and in this legislative proposal, those with completed specialization could have been interns, assistants, to be found. Even sometimes you just give someone like that a bad practice to do with students. You haven't even had legal coverage in the law since 1998 to run students with such specialization. Now, you'll be a doctor, don't worry. Automaticly after specialization and write a few radios, has his friends, his connections, lobbyists, no problem, lower the criteria, knock down etc. The criteria can change whenever you want, you schedule a bigger one and you agree, you raise the criteria, someone whispers to you - listen to you in Kragujevac, what you doctor sciences, you have no idea, give a little criterion up. Three pass, then in five days we schedule a session, raise the criteria. No stability, no legal certainty, no unnecessary traps. The vision of always talking about hyperproduction, about something of our false good. At all, the unfortunate commission that wrote this is as full of contradiction as its members. I can't help but notice what I've been looking for, surfing the Internet and watching what they've been saying. It's just that these people are confusing me, what they were saying to each other about this same project and what they sat down and wrote and signed with the BU. This is our BU, now the whole of Serbia is listening to the most elite institution write such a law, where you call again the reference party, which is indeed a reference party in this parliament, sat down and said it wasn't quite that reference. To neutralize all this, the minister goes out and says, the key message of all his TV shows is, God forbid, he says that according to this law students get at it, because teachers will hang out with students more, in order to make 100 necessary points, so the exam itself will not say triviality, but to paraphrasise, when he has gone so far as to criticise me not to go, to focus on triviality, because their association and mutual stimulation or what kind of stimulation for learning will lead to him achieving 70% of the criteria to pass the exam. Be careful, the students who film it on tape and bring me the tape on the exam, they say, said the minister, I was a regular, this is my record file. Professor, I've been to practice, I've been to classes, what you want from me, which I need to know what you've been talking about, what I need to learn about matter, because I was. Because 70 percent of 10 is 7, give me six, I'm done. I know he doesn't mean it, and what goes so fast, I know he's a professor too, so he wouldn't give it up. That's not the way to do it. All the TVs are doing it. Like in some embassy, he went and said, the benefit of being called by Americans to teach you is to learn English. Look, the minister went to the embassy, and then they say, they invite some of our talents, the world wants them, they call them Americans, it doesn't matter who they are, let them go. What if the minister says he'll only learn English, that's the only benefit, so they're going. He can learn English as much as you want. My kids watch movies, they learn English through it, not to say what they learn, they learn Spanish, they learn everything alive, they absorb it. The minister can't say that. I give these banal examples of life, because what he says and goes into the air, the ears of the students, you must then run to the dean to correct. And he's going to say, let the minister go, he's insecure, which he belongs to, he gets married to a party, it's not relevant. Who to account for, before the government. And when the government gets distracted, they'll lose it, which, they'll find another one, they can't find a minister, they can. So there's some indiscretion here. Turns out only the opposition read this law thoroughly. You only on the websites wrote, sent the wrong versions, apologized to the lady, couldn't remember, the head of the commission for leaving the government, not from the Ministry, the MPs, and again in our hair, in the yout three of the same proposals came in writing, February, March, July. What's where he was wrong, she apologizes to B92, MPs read the wrong materials, as she says. No, they're not all the same, they haven't changed. You only changed in the last version of the law that item, where it says if we're not so competitive, the community will condemn us, this or that; that's exactly what you didn't want to put on so much pressure from somewhere. I don't understand, so, finally, why and what was best for us, to leave that doctoral dissertation, to be the crown of something, of a seal, I know that it is now devalued. For a while, and as a dean, I've been looking for associates who think differently than I do, so the most rigorous ones, the strongest. Let's see, this proposal doesn't work, it's not drinking, it devalues my college reputation, so you're lenient again, so you want something, so you won't let him go, so give him back his thesis, so it was embarrassing. Now here's nothing, write it down, you'll be a doctor of science, add it up; in which way, without nearer instructions, but to whom shall you give, a greater one to solve. And he's going to say, I'm going to Nis to get a doctorate, I'm not going to yours, work goes to Nis if he wants to lower the criteria. And now there's academic mobility where you're going to doctor, I'm not saying, but at least you know the principle because it's unique. You pick the thesis, you go bigger. And like this, they're looking for it, this magazine Serbian Archive, this medical review is newly available, it's ours, there's three and here's two, it's five, write me as an author, here's some dinar, replace me to be the author, I go, I become a doctor of science. How to make thesis out of it, how to get thesis out of the works. That everything is the same, six papers with the same problem, can't thesis. Whoever so expertly wrote the papers can also doctor, and then has an expert basis for what he wrote that he was educated in a formal sense that he could have this scientific and research segment in his capacity. But, well, the way you started it, it says you didn't read carefully and that she set you up with this commission. They were simply terrified, he was a man without academic education and working at the university, when he saw names like these written above, especially Maria Bogdanovic, he said so, where to take me, to tear me apart in the paper and he started. God forbid there was a Turayly woman, if she'd gotten hold of him, there'd be nothing left of him. So I don't know what you've done, what you've needed, what you're proud of when you're making this law and what insidious statements it makes on television, which encourages these students falsely, these future doctors. Look, when the specialists come to work tomorrow, what, a year, you master, what's a fellow who's been through like me, like you, Mr. Duke, and all the other science doctors here, come on, you're under the new law. Until the last one disappears from the face of the land that has passed regularly, they'll say, "Let's go, you go to Europe and they'll admit you." I've worked hard to become a master, so I've been a specialist for four years, so science doctor for four years, what are you talking about? They're practical absecs, I went a little different in the discussion, I gave that personal assessment, but I want to bring that up to the public what happens if it's how you predicted it to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18561	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. You do what you want, you fill the time. I'm asking if anyone in the other parliamentary groups wants a word? No, I don't. ) Before I give a break, the next amendment is to member of the 30th National MP Velimir Simonovic. It will be the first amendment in the debate after the break. I'm taking a break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18562	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our afternoon work today's session. One more good day. As Mr. Mihajlovic announced in the morning section, we have reached an amendment to Article 30. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18563	I'd like to look back a little bit on what my colleague used to say before me about this article 30. My amendment was slightly lighter, and I wanted this word "top magazines" to be replaced by "known magazines," because I think that's enough. And famous magazines require a rather strict review of works. But the big question is whether a doctorate should be obtained this way. I have to tell you that was a constant request, and many of you know, from the medical school in Belgrade, that there are some concessions. Look, there's another illogicality here now. It's said like this - an extremely doctorate can acquire the face of completed studies of medicine and with completed specialization based on a defensive dissertation based on work. Why would he even have a finished specialization? You see, someone who finishes medicine is a doctor and wants to do scientific work, doesn't want to work with patients, he doesn't need specialization, and he can do a Ph.D., and he can do genetics, biology, chemistry, physiology, etc., and he doesn't have any contact with patients at all. He doesn't need a doctorate at all. So this isn't a good solution. This will certainly experience some changes and additions at some future stage. By the way, there's been this practice before in the Soviet Union. Someone in my profession could have doctored on the basis of his publication of a significant number of papers, then the commission gathered and said, well, now we're going to call him a doctor. But they told me, when I met some professors at Moscow University, that it proved impractical, because then people doctored relatively late, until they collected enough papers to make them doctors. Because anyone who wants to do science seriously has to get a doctorate by the time they're 30. After that, it almost loses its meaning. In that sense, my comments on your presentation, and my amendment is quite short, that only the word "top" is replaced by "known." I don't like those expressions at all -- top-notch, famous, respected, etc. Because it's still a little evading, it's not the right time for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18564	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Pai Momchilov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18565	Dear People's MPs, the SRS has tabled an amendment, but first I'd like to say what our intervention is about. In fact, we believe that at point 2) where "the university, or art academy within the university" stands, should be deleted "in the composition of the university". Thus, Article 32 should read: "High education activities are carried out by the following higher education institutions: university, university, art academy, academy of professional studies, higher school, higher school of vocational studies". What would these get? This would respect our desire and our desire to allow colleges to be a legal person, to have their own jury account and to be independent in this teaching process. We've heard a series of explanations why it's good to be a university legal person and be a unit in a higher education system. So we heard that Dosei, when he founded Licey, imagined it that way. Even so, Dosei studied in Germany at the German University. He studied at two universities, it's famous. It is true that our education system is quite like German and we can practically say that it has always been a mixture of German and French systems so far. It's been known in history that it's been and what it's been for. What we're trying to say is that it's totally inappropriate to treat universities like this. That kind of centralization is illegal, according to us, with us. I'll try to explain why we in the SRS think that's the case. Let me remind you that just a few days ago, you voted here to repeal the Law on the Oil Industry and you heard the argument, and you've been repeating it here, that such bulky systems are very difficult to manage and function normally. We have two or three of those systems. We've got EPS and NIS, and maybe the Serbs. We need to decentralised it, and when it comes to the university, no. It should make a glomerate, combined, what I call a relapse of communist collective consciousness, of course, like any totalitarian system, globalism, which is now a threatening evil that we are facing today, it is just dangerous and we are criticizing it for exclusiveity, he says that all other solutions are not good, and he always wants to get the so-called. evidence. Imagine Belgrade University, which has 10,000 employees and 50,000 students. There's one teaching-science bigger. This teaching and scientific council discusses curricula for everything and everything. That mathematician listens to what a medical program should be. As there is an excuse to separate the Academy of Arts from the other universities and universities, there is absolutely an excuse that there is both a special and independent university. Why? For you theorists, Europeans, again, you will correct me, I hope you stand there better, which means autonomy. You are calling for this law to provide autonomy. What I know is that it means only self-government, independence, independence and self-determination. It's autonomy. And how best can it be achieved? Well, just decentralisation. In the old, classic education system, to talk about that German, you also had student autonomy and knowledge. The student wasn't obliged to go to class. He had his freedom and autonomy. Come on, this Humbolt guy is out of line, I agree, and Europe says that there should be some restrictions in all of this, there shouldn't be that much freedom, but please, why autonomy is necessary. Well, just to achieve academic freedom. That's a prerequisite - if you have autonomy, you'll have academic freedoms. No, I don't. We are now eliminating autonomy, not giving independence to the university, which is a couple of excellencies most often, units to ourselves. I have nothing at the medical school of touch points with some of the fine literature, and now, let's say, at the electoral council of that university, that great combination, I have to decide on the choice of someone who's a professor on an object like beautiful literature or something. It's absurd, unnecessary and ridiculous. You'll say yes, but there are some general principles, so based on them, it can. Anything can be done. I'll remind you of that too -- you know what it's like in other countries, that German space is really interesting enough for us, whether in that German space they don't have colleges of independence. Are there no independent colleges in France? Are there no independent colleges in the Netherlands? Let's look at the environment - how it is in Hungary. Do the Hungarians know only about the university and nothing else? Let's let the Hungarians go, let's see the Romanians, the Macedonians, how they've solved it, whether they're eliminating independence and autonomy from colleges. No, they don't stop it. It can be entered into our system, and it's again one way of destroying that is constantly present, inserting an Anglo-Saxon model. Maybe it's a good model, but tell me, in America, which university has more than 100 employees and 500 students? That's where it's possible, that's where it's going. Surely, exceptions will be found, in every grain there are weeds, and there are also exceptions, and exceptions, of course, confirm the rule. But I speak on average. Someone said there were a couple hundred universities in Tokyo. Someone on the other side mentioned yesterday or I was talking about something in the towers, maybe just with Mr. Knezevic, to Paris, how many universities there are called Paris. I thought nine, and Mr. Knezevic told me there were over 20. So it can, these units can, but as it's imagined here, it's dysfunctional, it's not going to work, and it's going to work badly. What was done as a counterweight? We're going backwards, unfortunately. Then you have agglomeration of power and power in one body that will lead politics, which is called the National Council for Higher Education. The monopoly centre was built, so since there are some wrinkly things that will be done by the national council, he and the Accreditation Commission will have, let the process be secretive, the reviewing process, that no one knows who did it. It's the only motive that's been run by a legislator, not the one sitting in the front row, that doesn't care much. However, I said it would be good to answer how these conflicts between our ministries would be overcome by this law? How do you allow this law to allow conflicts of interest between the two ministries of unresolved health and education? I said to see that you're not answering, and that doesn't hit you at all, which is also one educational worker, the school manager, who stayed in the justice of God, because you forced him to resign and today he's without a piece of bread, on the street, not guilty or in debt. So we in the SRS absolutely think it's necessary to maintain the autonomy of the university. You'll have another answer. Serbs immediately come to the side of the road, there are opportunities. Since college, people are gonna start building universities, and that's so clear. It's pretty clear to me what it's going to look like in the field of medicine, but then it's playing the rules and then it's a circus. Of course, we do not want to participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18566	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. According to the same amendment, the word has been given by MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18567	The president of the assembly was not present for the good part of the session, of course because of the obligations. I opened the topic this morning, and I expected that some controversy would be created about those points and those basic principles on which you from the NGO sector based this bill. First of all, I mean Article 3 and Article 4 as I have opened the topic of academic freedom and autonomy of the university, and of course we have no conversation. There's probably a lot of black material, so it's not intended to replicate or enter the controversy. Since it's gone, I have to move on. The question really arises - who carries the educational process in higher education, university or university, rector or professor? However, the rector also appears as a professor for his subject, but it is a fundamental question of where education is. Since there's no controversy here, what I've been saving as a backup, I've got to do. You see, we at the state university today have teachers who have mastered and doctored abroad, but not on this one, if I may say so, first, more significant level or by the importance of educational institutions, at the colleges of academic studies, but at some of the institutions of vocational studies, and then they consolidated it here. If they were mastered there in these vocational studies, it was consolidated by doctoral dissertation or vice versa, here the master's degree, and there was a doctoral dissertation, and there were disputes almost at most of these technical colleges, because in Germany there was this difference and there was this degree, whether someone had acquired a higher academic education for the economy or for work or for education, what would be his future. As far as this is concerned, and given the fact that now with this bill, I think it's a Article 11, where you're giving jurisdiction to the National Council to establish a list of professional academic and scientific names, I'd stick to this first list of professional names. And if you have in mind what the interest of those who use these personnel is, one part of these personnel goes into the educational process, and one person goes into what we say business, social activity, education, where a diploma appears as a condition for employment, then I have to remind you that in these few years it has come to be that independent of that degree, which is not a harmless thing, we have a situation that so-called. Construction profession drivers, who until maybe a year or a year or a half ago were very high-quality construction heads, because they were also trained to do so, by changing the Law on Planning and Construction, were practically out of work, because the new law introduced licensing. To get a license, it has to be a real construction engineer with a finished construction college, so without this degree. After this law, as you intend to vote, you will have almost every educational profile and in every profession, because when the stampede takes place in universities of private and state, higher schools, national universities, and I don't speak any further, then everyone will be qualified for everything. But you forgot just one more thing, and I'm just surprised that those who wrote it didn't pay attention to some colleges don't practically study fit for higher schools, where some new staff should be educated. (Velimir Simonovic, from the place: It is not true) It is true. So whoever completed his primary academic studies and made a career based on it, second and third degree, will be a professor at some higher school, where you need specific knowledge from the profession. The concept also fits in so colleges don't raise their voice, to be organisational units, so even the rectors said that nothing touches the university, but the legal subjectivity to remain ours, so because of the size of some it's said under certain conditions that some universities have some degree of independence compared to universities. It's all freakish and wrong. If every other member of any bill is an exception, then it's not the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18568	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18569	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it's happening again, just maybe the same story, if we just say in a different way, that we don't challenge the monotony of citizens who listen to us too. That's what I'd have avoided right now. There are really no more sentences to support what we of the opposition feel is that we do not need to raise awareness of the university's status as department, department, etc. one massive institution, so let me remind you of what the current members of the commission who wrote about it have said. So, the commission that worked in the paper I read yesterday has its own few members, the commission was formed on 16 September 2003, and they were two or three months later, talking about the problems over the law said several basic things. So they were on to a completely different thought. The biggest dilemma is not about the need, Leon Cohen said, for this kind of teaching reform, but for insistence on shutting down the university and their organisational and legal drowning at the university. It is very clear -- it disagrees with the concept as well as the entire Belgrade University. The Belgrade University's unique position is that such radical reorganisations and legal changes, if imposed, would lead to a chaotic state. And he wrote this bill. Let's move on. There is no reason other than the disproportionate desire to resist anyone in Europe who imposes such attitudes on us at all costs. Let's say one concept that the minister put out, that the interest in this kind of centralization of the university under the hat of the university, so the opposite of declarative decentralisation, explains the fact that the resistance provides some colleges that get a lot through numbers, through budget students, by opening collateral facilities, wherever some city has more than 30,000 residents open up to law school, economics, making gigs, getting rich, mostly rich professors strivers. There is no wealth of college, or university in the perspective of this proposal. And what can they do? So I really don't just know where they're gonna find 70% of the time to be with the students, when they can't all settle down. Dekan Nevenka Zarkic-Joximovic is convinced that such an attitude to respond to the rich colleges is what the minister claimed, that he is aware that they have the idea, does not answer the truth, has nothing to do with the elitist approach; it warns of chaos if the ministry remains persistent in this stance. The rest of the ministry, and she sat on the committee and wrote it. The Dean of the Faculty of Economics, Bozidar Cerovic, warns of bad experiences from the white world, even uses the term "white world". He says the major universities when they are centralized are badly done and cites an example of the University of La Sapence in Rome. What's that? He's the signator of this to get this out in front of the MPs. So when such dual morality, such a hypocrisis, what other argument does the opposition make when those who wrote this just two months earlier say quite differently, and don't crash, go into the reform of teaching content, which we're not going to do, so uncontrollably, so vaguely, so vaguely, so vaguely. What it means to reduce the volume, reduce the content, but as that's not the problem, I guess people are afraid for their positions, their situations, not to lose one of their responsibilities. The second, let's say the second, there are more, the practical reason why you don't have to choke on university autonomy is the fact that right now, I've already said that, but to always underline, the colleges of anti-cicipating this law open different directions, almost without a program, no one has verified them, just to verify themselves, what we're getting the Members of Parliament to do, to verify something that's been working for two or three years. So you wouldn't confess to someone who gave the money? You must confess by force, enter an irregular state. A lot of reasons not to touch into a well-functioning existing system. I really don't know, I'm still in the dilemma of what was so convincing in the heads of the commission who did this to put us in front of the MPs, put this kind of law. You didn't think we were going to say no to the Priors without much thinking, so you made us even more funny in this whole story. On the contrary, we've been reading very closely, looking for someone else's experience, and we think that in this, by your definition, a transition period, which is obviously much slower than it was supposed to be, it doesn't correspond to such a fundamental reform of this, as it does to other procedures that are characterized as fundamental reform, privatisation in companies, banks, insurance companies, sales of the economy. It's all too fast, it's all very effective, it has some effect effective to ease social tension, and the ultimate bad consequences here will be hyperproduction, and under-educated and semi-fabricated, semi-educated, those with 37 points, everything, God asks you what you don't do. Hyperproduction of academic calling, and on the other hand, economic hyperproduction and unemployment, fall of standards. Obviously, some kind of transition movement shouldn't be entered so quickly, so recklessly. We could have kept this as something of our own. No one in the world would ban us from contacting and approaching Europeans, perhaps even these Atlantic integrations, but these are not American models, and if we had put this on hold, waited, saw other people's experiences, did a pilot project somewhere – we work with children pilot projects as much as you want in high schools, a lot of things – so we kind of tried it, but in an animation model. Those who finance these Tempus projects give one animation model to make what look like, to see what happens in the practical application. This is how it's all going to be spent live, and I think it's going to be very painful.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18570	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, MP Velimir Simonovic submitted. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18571	My amendments to the 6th and 7th apply to the same thing, only one to the university and the other to colleges. According to Article 33, the university can achieve all kinds and levels of studies, and in Article 34, again, one sentence - college... The academy can also implement vocational study programmes. My amendment reads: "university can achieve all levels of academic studies", as well as for college. So, please, you don't need university and college to organize studies that aren't academic but professional. It's a lower level. There's no need for the university to do that. The university must develop science and only the academic system of education. Let's leave this to high schools and academys, as they'll be called. Someone on the board made an argument that perhaps higher schools didn't have enough to provide at first that kind of frame, so as technical colleges to help. We can cut out half the higher schools now, cancel tomorrow's minister and not have them at all, because some of them are completely unnecessary and weak, and those that are valid and will remain three years old. They'll be able to create this necessary frame that we call professional studies here. It's unacceptable for the university to do things like that. It's a lower level, there's no need. There is also a concern that then technical colleges may have fewer students. And they should have a smaller number. They should come to the university only those who are worthy, capable, qualified enough to be able to study. That's what this is about. There's no point in letting universities and colleges deal with vocational studies. There's no need, and it's gonna look weird. It'll be some kind of parallel course. For example, he writes an engineering college for academic studies and enrolls in vocational studies, so he mixes it there, so he just keeps a class here, a class there, tells maybe always the same story, because as one of our distinguished professors, unfortunately the deceased, says -- professors tell what they know, it doesn't matter what level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18572	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18573	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 34 which essentially states that this member leaves out that colleges are a high school unit within the university. Because, as you could hear from my party colleagues and predecessors who spoke, we advocate that this law, in fact, although it is fundamentally significant intensities, gives it basic attachments to the university, i.e. that universities are the bearers of a complete educational and scientific research process, and that within the university the perpetrators of this process are so-called. Higher education units, i.e. current colleges. We believe that colleges continue, no matter how much they have approved or accredited study programmes, should be independent scientific and educational institutions within the university. It means that no advantage of this law is given to universities and that it remains an absolute discretionary right of every university whether it wants to deviate from its independence as it has under all the laws so far and that independence goes to the university or whether it only implements one approved study programme. Because the truth is that this law gives Article 47 the possibility that college can be an independent legal person, but provided that it has three approved and accredited study programs. We believe that it should not be conditioned to be three study programs, but that a study programme is sufficient and that it has the right to retain that independence within the university. The truth is, it is known that during the public debate and the process of passing this law certain universities were categorically against such provisions that universities were independent legal persons, that colleges were higher education units, was primarily Belgrade University, and therefore one such compromise was made in Article 47, that some universities with three accredited and approved study programmes were given the possibility of independence. While some universities have supported this concept of law since the start of maltene. I mean, first of all, at the University of Novosad, because there's a lot of colleges and there's a lot of colleges, and it would be a lot easier to transform such colleges into universities, and these sections and directions would essentially be these educational units, and essentially create more of these border universities. Personally, I don't mind forming more, first of all, border universities, which can be more efficient and more concerned about providing precisely closely specialized studies at these related universities, than is such a concept that exists at one university, than natural and mathematical sciences, socio-social to medical. So it's all under the hat of one university, which is much harder to coordinate. I'm absolutely against it, and we from the SRS that colleges lose legal subjectivity, a legal person, and especially what has a good number of universities, especially Belgrade and the University of Novosad, that there are colleges that are older than the universities themselves, and there's really no basis for these colleges to lose their subjectivity and personality just because it's legal solutions to this law. So I hope that if the government and the ministry, above all education and sport, have not accepted this amendment, that during the vote you who represent the assembly majority will accept this amendment, because I think it will be welcomed by most of the colleges. So, we're not going to argue with those colleges that simply want to lose their subjectivity and drown in newly founded possibly universities. But colleges that implement an approved and accredited study programme, if the people who have raised that university and work on it want to preserve the independence of such a university, then that should be allowed and that would mean that the proposed amendment to Article 34 is accepted, so that colleges, i.e. art colleges, are higher education institutions within a university, but independent higher education institutions, which carry out academic studies and develop scientific research, professional and artistic work in one or more fields. In the end, what I'm saying is that I support what's professor. Simonovic said that colleges should be involved in academic education, not professional education, because really why professional studies are set up specifically, and even specialist vocational studies, if colleges will also play such a role and competence to start vocational studies, there will be overlapping and simple kidnappings for students, especially those profitable professions that are trained on team so-called. or so far higher schools. I think the failure of the legislator of this law to give Article 34 in the position of the 2nd colleges is an opportunity to achieve professional study programmes as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18574	Anyone else want a word? The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18575	We had two or three small colleges who didn't want to have their subjectivity, legal face, etc. They want to be within that university as departments, cut off, call it what you want. We would have prevented such situations and therefore I think that amendment is unacceptable. With this condition, he will retain his legal personality. My amendment spoke of it and he was accepted. We can't disable it if a new university is created from a few small colleges that can't be handled under this law. That wouldn't be convenient.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18576	Wrong interpretation, MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18577	I don't think Professor Simonovic and I understand each other, or we don't read and interpret Article 34 accurately enough. Absolutely what you said doesn't stand, because I have submitted an amendment to Article 34. If what I'm proposing is left out, if college is not a university-based university unit, it means that priority is that they're not within the university's flag, but can be independent, then there's really no obstacle in newly founded universities either to be educational units within the university or simply to be independent within the university. The legal solution here is already giving the possibility for individual universities to be only higher education units in the university, without legal subjectivity. On the other hand, some universities are given the opportunity to be independent within existing or newly established universities, with three accredited curricula and programmes. We believe that they should not be conditioned to have these three approved and accredited curricula and programmes, but rather enough to have one and can be independent within the framework of a new or existing university.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18578	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Since Mr. Simonovic doesn't want a word, does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18579	If the university is an independent higher education institution, a legal entity, a legal person, by the concept of proposing, NGOs, then it achieves its educational function and activity of general interest through its organisational units. This means that the doctorate appears as a representative of the university, and the work is done by professors at colleges, and colleges are working units. So to accept it somehow: the company is a university, and colleges are business units, with some having the status of a business unit with legal personality status and no legal person. With all the risks that this seems offensive, the very thought of comparing and making an analogy, but the promoter of our colleges has thus devalued that they are neither business units. So that it doesn't increase much in public now, then those of the university came to think of it, Dejan Popovic and these others, and they say, "Nothing's going to change, we're going towards Bologna. The draft will negotiate better with the ministry, better negotiate, he will fight for status, and you will only negotiate for education and science. There's the biggest prank. All those who were expelled from law school, those from the gss, they were harassing there for four or five years, that's when Gasha applied a bill that wasn't even written, when you expelled Vojislav Seselj, when some of them doctored, became extraordinary professors, regular professors. Since there are no more of these positions in law school, because something bad goes with that business school, come on, we're moving towards the university, we're wasting our cards from the time we were blowing whistles, banging pots, encouraging students, promising students everything and everything, and when they came to power, they immediately started with big tuitions, etc., they cheated everything. Now the arrests are found in the new positioning of the university, i.e. the rectorate, because the university also acts as a mirage when mentioned. Who is accomplishing the scientific and educational process? Well, colleges, somewhere and institutes, depending on organization, area or field. They need to be disenfranchised. Well, the exams are in college, not the department. We know who took four-eye exams in the department: children of former university professors. Unfortunately, they're college professors today, too. Normal people go to college, not the rectory. There's a problem. We need to disable the colleges, make them incontinent. How far does that go? We've submitted an amendment to run out the rabbit, see what it is. Of course, no one can answer. With this amendment, which I signed on behalf of the party, we propose that a certain change be made in Article 34(3). Here's what that attitude is, the government's proposal. He says, "A college, or an art academy in a legal change, performs under the name of a university in which it is composed and under its name, in accordance with the statute of the university." Almost a similar provision exists now in a law that regulates higher education. What did we suggest? We have suggested that the text "under the name of the university in which it is composed and under its name" be deleted at the end of the word "university", so that the attitude would read: "The Faculty, i.e. the Art Academy in Legal Traffic, performs in accordance with the Statute. "It couldn't have gone through with this government either, and there is essentially no change. And now all the colleges in legal traffic, I mean these state, in their name, when they come to third parties, according to the public, first use the name of the university, then the name of the university. Almost nothing has been epochally changed by this amendment. They couldn't even read an amendment that didn't essentially change anything, but they wrote that the amendment was being rejected because it doesn't comply with the concept. What's wrong with the concept? A member of 34th Prescribs what a college and an art academy is. Here, let's just stick to the definition of college directed by NGOs. The Faculty, i.e. the Academy of Arts, is a higher education institution, i.e. a higher education unit within the university, which performs academic studies programmes and develops scientific research and professional, or artistic work in one or more fields. In addition to what we object that she can't be a high school unit, she can't be a business unit of the university in an educational sense, something that looks like college, but under a different name, is what's written in Article 36, and that's called high school. The high school is an independent higher education institution that implements academic, basic, specialist and master's studies from one or more areas under Article 27 of this Law. Less or less, if you don't take just some termological use of synonyms, it's almost exactly the same definition for college and high school, assuming that the university is part of a university, and high school is an independent higher school institution. Even at the university, scientific research, professional and artistic work is being potentiald, and this organization that you are proposing will believe that many people working at the state university, in some universities, will consider whether they belong there, whether there is a formula that would satisfy their interests and allow their abilities to be realized in this area, the establishment of a high school that would be approximately in the rank of a university that provides academic education. So this is a law against the state university and against the state colleges. What's the reason? Is it because the state doesn't have money, is it because professors have a large number of gigs? Is it because the state doesn't want these classrooms to be crowded and being persecuted with colleges, whether they're going to skip those quotas as much as they can, whether they're going to do anything on the basis of tuition, and you haven't even touched it here, or put it in any system, in some colleges, regardless of what the state gives, these colleges in their own incomes make enormous incomes, so there's a kind of inequality between professors, and just because they're not in the same college. Already one in college, which is attractive for students, so he enrolls and has a large number of candidates in the entrance exam, unlike some technical colleges, where some times and stays and what place in college is vacant. Gentlemen of the majority, this is the mangoose business you've been taking, and this Bologna and these other places you're using, it means nothing to colleges, to teachers, to students, to their parents, and to those who are supposed to hire these people tomorrow. I suppose you are aware of one situation that these people who do private work in Serbia, only for those places where it is explicitly prescribed as a condition, employ people with a high school. For all other jobs in these instruments of systematization, the basic school, the secondary school, the loading and professional work, and other work, and thus trying to avoid obligations both on the basis of taxes and on the basis of contributions, and what we're talking about high school, we're worried about the status of a small group of thugs who run this area, who's leading the main word, who's only fighting for their positions. They don't care about education. They don't care if there are as many highly educated people in Serbia as possible, or if there's some science or scientific research going on. No, it's your magic status to keep. What I can't do in college as a person, I can do in some different lobbies at the university. And I guess all of our universities and colleges are even, I guess there's only one difference in the founder, they're all equal in terms of work, the study programs differ, but if you have a study programme at a private university and at a private university, the difference is only in the founder and his rights. Where the country's founder, then the hoodlums' group is sucking and it's fat and it's even more dangerous. But when that hoodlum group goes to private college, then they're obedient, obedient, an academic is God, an academic is listened. There's no academic freedoms, no autonomy, no scientific research, no youth growing, because there's only a good commercial there to make a degree look bad, to get a little more money on the basis of tuition and a finished story. Besides, these private universities and universities are attended by people who have acquired their academic knowledge in state schools. They're not aliens or Martians. They're the same people. Where's the equality? Can anyone from the Ministry guarantee that they have the same degree weight from the same district, the state college and some private college? That's the theme of this law, that's where the ministry should be hired, not how some quasi-cadres, some plagiarists, some people who hate colleges. They're the ones who take away their diplomas, who leave them without a working relationship by applying a bill that doesn't exist. A 1400-page book was issued that the draft law does not exist and there, sitting still, the former minister calmly watched, all by law, was covered by a court ruling. Think about it for a little while, you who represent most, not for yourself, but for your children, not whether they're going to enroll in college, but when they finish it where they're going to work and what level of knowledge they're going to get.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18580	Following the same amendment, MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18581	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't mean to talk about this law, although I am a professor of the university, but this much inflation of the empty story has forced me especially when it comes to this member and this amendment that touches the legal subjectivity of the university. When it comes to the legal subjectivity of the university, it's not the louses that fight to change, it's the villains that fight to retain the acquired privileges, and these privileges and colleges in megauniversities that we have right now are the brakes of the development of our high school system, its development. By the way, I'm going to say one example, I'm a student of the University of Ljubljana, and even from 1965 to 1970, and to make it clear to you why Slovenia is in Europe, you're not going to deconcentrate me, Mr Nikolic, you can earn whatever you want, why with $14,000 per capita and with the only problem that they're now donating others, and not receiving donations, is that they've always been Europe and working as Europe. To understand how the university should function, their university functioned when I studied in 1965 and 1970. We're at my university, and it was the Faculty of Natural Sciences and Technology, we had seven colleges. It was one university and I took physics at the Joseph Stefan Institute, like all the other colleges. I was in the Faculty of Metalurics, just like all the other colleges. All the services were united, because it's a rational study, because not every university needs a bulument of all professors. At my university from physics to chemistry, to technology, to mini-universities, at universities organized by professions is a far more rational study, and all those who struggle to retain the legal subjectivity of the university are fighting for privileges only. Unfortunately, this law is trying to be created by lawyers, and their college is the richest. They're fighting for their pocket and nothing else. No such amendment let God pass, we certainly won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18582	Right on line, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18583	My predecessor reported on an amendment submitted to Article 34(3). There's no legal subjectivity, there's a name. Then there's the erosion of some of the words that are heard from here, and the gentleman before me has made a terrible mistake. So, we talked about the legal subjectivity of a higher school institution when some previous amendments were on the agenda. But I don't know what that could be common to, say, some college and some high school institution that's going to be indeterminate in this, it's going to be an organization unit of the university, and let's say for medical school. I'm just making a parallel to what the previous speaker said, that in a large number of so-called. There's a professor's bulument on this one, he teaches physics, and there's physics on this one, too, so they're not used, so this one physicist can teach physics anywhere. At least that's how it is in Ljubljana. That's how we understood him, because everything else wasn't clear. Find me something that could be common between Engineering and Legal. They used to have two common objects, Marxism and General Defense, but that's gone. Those who taught the Universal Defense were lecturers. You know, if you want to mutilate colleges, that they lose their independence, that they have to go to the department, not the university, but the recession, I just fenced myself, the university is still a name for an association, at least now. If you care so much that you didn't put surveillance at university level? Control, if the quality is achieved, you've already said in one provision there that you define an organ that will exercise control. Hey, to define the organ. A higher school facility is required to define an organ. Let's say that you wrote to determine an organ in its composition that will take care of the quality of teaching. No, it's to define itself. Well, it's the language of NGOs, so it's the world's ignorant, so all the NGOs in this country have suggested and someone has adopted it by mistake, and it's dried up, do you understand? The watermelic was written by a law on broadcasting, so that husband was a member of the council, so he was found to have a conflict of interest, he was such a cleaning man. Even with that Chedomir Chupic, I don't want to be in any further order. Get away from the NGOs. If it was worth something, it'd be an institution. Well, and when the socialists tolerated it and made it, they said let them have at least some fun, they just don't want to make a fuss. But it got bigger, it got wet, it multiplied. So many thousands of NGOs reportedly meet their vanity and their need.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18584	Mr. Krasic, time, this was a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18585	That's exactly how to replicate when a man missed the law, and a member, and a concept, and he's still a university professor who graduated from the university in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18586	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18587	Thank you. In Article 36, the term high school is defined, which is introduced by this draft law, and is defined as an independent higher education institution that performs academic basic, specialist and master studies, which I have proposed to delete with my amendment. So high school doesn't even deal with master's studies. There's more reason for that. It is enough to go back to a member of 34 who defines what a university is, or an art academy, and this member says that the university is a higher education institution, or a university unit, which is a university student programme and develops scientific research, professional, or artistic work in one or more areas. What's the difference between college and high school? First, the university is one of the units of the university, which is not important for the essence of things, and in the fact that the university is developing scientific research and high school doesn't. And that's why we think it's logical, if high school doesn't already do research, then they can't and should not organize master's studies. We in the SRS are in principle not for high schools to exist at all in the system of higher education institutions, both for theoretical reasons, because they are not clearly based in the network of higher education institutions and for practical reasons. In fact, although this law has not yet been passed, we have some practical experience with high schools, because as some MPs have already noticed some universities have kind of been copying this law and some high schools have already been introduced. There is a high medical school in Kragujevac, which has been attended for the third generation, and there is no need for much to be theoretical, but in practice you can see what it looks like. And since our Professor Poscurica has direct experience with that high school, I hope he will be willing to further strengthen this argument and say what it looks like in practice. Otherwise, this congregation has passed many laws that have remained unclear, which have created confusion in application, or are not even applied because they are vague, confusing, and complicated. However, this law on higher education will best them all. This law will likely remain remembered even more for its devastating consequences than it is the famous Shuvar reform of secondary education, remembered by my own and somewhat older generation. It's a reform from the '80s last century. We know that she has also caused the consequences of a number of generations of high school students, and we remember well that at a later stage she has already served mostly for ridicule and jokes. After a few years, the reform was abolished. It's all back to the way things were, but this bill says that we don't even learn from our mistakes, let alone someone else's. Now we're doing something that's going to be even more destructive, even more complicated and even funnier. We've been destroying a system that's been built for decades, which is one building on solid foundations. And we're building something that we absolutely don't even have a vague idea of what it's going to look like. Let's not argue that it may have been necessary to adjust the existing higher education system a little bit, but what we're doing is really devastating. In doing so, the legislator, according to the tried prescription, always serves some postmen. This time it is the Bologna Declaration, which serves to silence all those skeptical, all critical, because, behold, my God, if you oppose this concept, we knew, you are against European integration, you are against the EU, you are against everything that is modern. However, those who are not lazy will be surprised to see from it that none of the concrete solutions are practically dictated to us. Here they give some mahma general declarative principles. What she wants to introduce is greater mobility for students as well as for those who have already acquired a higher calling. However, while I'm at it, I don't understand the promoter at all, I don't understand the media, I don't understand NGOs who are able to make it possible for entire generations, who are going to finish our high schools, to go abroad to work, to represent it as one of the goals of introducing this reform. I understand that we don't need to make any, and especially by administrative measures, we keep individuals from working and living where they're going to be better, but it's a personal interest. It's not national, it's not the state's interest to make it easier and speed up the departure of an educated young generation. So, we don't need to slow them down, we don't need to slow down an individual, but don't let us affirm it and brag about how by introducing this system, we're going to make it possible for young generations to go and work somewhere else. Not to speak for what reasons it's devastating, for demographic and all kinds of reasons. Also, the promoters do a lot of courting for future students. I listened to Mr. Vuksanovic here yesterday and the day before yesterday when he was giving an interview in the hall of the Assembly, as he wanted to give the good news to future students that future exams would be practically formality - would be sufficient to attend the course of studies at lectures, exercises, etc. and the exam will be a purely formality and will be about to serve only to determine exactly the rating which will certainly be positive, if the student has done all these previous actions properly. This is indeed the continuation of one way of courtship for young generations. We know the parties in which the current minister was all, that they were all used to this manipulation of students and student associations, that they instrumented entire generations of students while they were in opposition to fighting for something not authentic student interest, to fight for this famous autonomy of the university, which was necessary for their professors, but not for some professional and scientific reasons, but for a purely personal and group interest of teachers. This famous autonomy of the university was elected and then all those generations of students, especially future generations, hit their heads against the wall. It was seen that university autonomy was only because colleges and universities had financial benefits. They started by introducing higher tuition, college payments, high-priced exams, etc. The students absolutely cannot, I hope never again mobilize for any political or group interest, no matter how he explains himself. To give Professor Poscurica a chance to tell us something about these famous high schools that are being introduced, and I know that this law will surely be passed, but I am sure that if this assembly of parliament continues, we will on more than one occasion deal with certain provisions of this law, because it will absolutely not be possible to apply in practice if there are no major changes in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18588	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18589	Okay, in my own way, I have to defend what's going on with us, and I'm kind of a participant in that, because I'm taking part in the realisation of classes for the High School of Medicine. It's something that must be two generations with us and now this third, undefined state that obviously stems from current legal solutions. In fact, this legal solution is meant for more schools to grow up to be high. It's a law that hits higher schools, with a famous explanation that more schools didn't care especially about the fit and it's possible that there were different diplomas and everything. But there is one that really proved effective, which is the Higher Medical School, which exists in Belgrade, Chačka, Mupriya. There's more where that came from. These are schools that really provided a piece of work, had places in real life. Why did they grow up in high schools? It is, of course, an imperative that could be guessed by the provisions of the now applicable Law that a new time would come in which college would not be independent. As the deans changed, as the authorities and prime ministers changed, and the same set and political option remained, so the deans changed and left, but the time period was short and someone once signed a decision to form and they got somehow informal signature on the side, the paraphras of Mrs. Turajlic, who approved that something like that would form, and started experimenting. We don't know what these kids are going to be called for today, first of all, but that's a minor problem. They'll make a national advice, as you've imagined, calling it, senior medical technicians, etc. We'll come up with a calling, but the point is what they'll be able to provide from that knowledge. It would be logical to expect that if a higher education institution was formed, as the higher school came out of more, that it also assimilated the programs from which it originated. So, to adopt a basic teaching program that had a higher school, then add something to the upgrade. That would be understandable. However, according to what is now being done here, and I think someone else is doing it in Serbia, is not a Kragujevac no bad example, no black sheep, but that's how it happened, and someone decided once, certainly not the current setting that was in the awkward situation of how to deal with it, because the ministry is persistently silent, no one gives definitive approval, because they are probably waiting for the accreditation of the programme and whatnot, so they found themselves now having to put these students in some jobs. They have neither the elements of primary education provided by higher school nor the elements provided by college, high school. So our programs where we talk about these kids end up somewhere, it's hard to quantify it, but in half and a third, like who has an idea, it's so much that it's become some personal sense of measure when you're doing it. It's an experiment as long as you go. The oral recommendation-- I don't know what to tell you, you don't have to show me the oscultation, you don't have to do this, you don't have to do that. The examination techniques you do up to half, so they can even compete with high school students, who never gave a shot. A senior sister can't do that either. If he doesn't know anything, give him the job more of a nurse, tie him to that job, and he'll get paid. What's gonna happen to those kids? It's one of the proofs that when you go into something without orientation, without purpose or purpose, it can be scary by reflection. Only this second generation can enter a third year if the plan is made, but we still don't have a definitive rapper on what's going to be of them. Why was that done? Probably to make another one, and now the pharmacy has come to order, and that's basically three fields where you can say, now I'm on my own. The whole procedure looks like a non-preemptive organ ablation, let me remove this organ so it doesn't get cancer, let me open three wards so I can be calm so that tomorrow someone doesn't take my autonomy. A simple construction, which the Belgrade University did not support at the beginning, led to the creation of an anachrons of college organisations. What now, university? Something like that happens under the hat of the university, but he's quiet. That university is "Dad" in Belgrade, that rector. Shut up, educate, work and manage, and all the kids are practically paying. Before, something was financial from the budget. Look, even the state has legalized, given a certain percentage of budgets, second generation, second year, they were all self-financed and practically now the question of what to do with children, what to give them. So it's a galatias in the beginning and, of course, a key question, can they go to master's studies. How, when they don't even have a program of basic studies, and they go by this law in the second degree of education, it's just amazing. That's how much we caricate Master's studies. Let's get to the bottom of whether they're masters or masters, but this says "masters." And it's just amazing, one nonsens, and now that I'm going to the kids I'm teaching and talking to right now, these are medical technicians who get half the information about who has a student, half, a third, or two-thirds, but still, you can't ask them anything more to see how much they know, you don't have rights, you don't have a program, no one has verified. And now he's going to master and I'm going to be his mentor, and we're going to have an inflation of high school magistrates. That's amazing. I don't know who's playing with it. I don't know, the people who did it, they're mostly rectors, why they didn't have a sense of contact with the base, to see what it really meant in the operational sense. The nurse becomes a magistrate, so you see where we came from and what inflation call it - this now or what Turajlikka is accusing us of having in the earlier period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18590	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? If not, we move on to the next amendment. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 36th amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 40 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is by MP Vesna Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18591	The G17 plus parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to Article 41, item 10, that the percentage of "50%" is replaced by a percentage of "40%". In fact, the transformation of higher education is necessary because of the need to establish a stronger connection between the educational process and the economy in order to get young staff ready for the promotional implementation of acquired knowledge. The proposal for a new law divides studies into academic and professional, and we know that academic studies aim to train students to develop and implement scientific, professional and artistic achievements, while vocational studies should train students to engage in the work process after three years. The law says that vocational studies require 50% of teachers with the acquired scientific name of a doctor of science. Why do we think that this percentage is too high, or that it should be reduced to 40%? First of all, because of the need for teachers to train students immediately for the work process, because in business and in some specialised companies we have a lot of professional staff that does not have a degree in science or master's degree, but their knowledge in this area is very large and remarkable. They have pedagogical affinities and their knowledge is very applicable. In addition, I think that even now more schools have a major problem with teaching staff and that there may not be even 30% of teachers in the permanent working relationship with the scientific calling of science doctors. As a result, the parliamentary group has submitted an amendment that this percentage of the required teaching staff in a permanent working relationship with 50% replacements by 40% and I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18592	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Slobodan Pajovic withdrew the amendment to Article 41. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 41st amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18593	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this assembly since I was a member of the Parliament, I have witnessed everything and everything, the conflict of political parties' programmes, the conflict of political parties' ideologies. Each party sought to present its programme and ideology as best and it was perfectly normal for a party, or government that has most insistence on its programme. However, we are now in a situation where a bunch of amendments have been accepted by the promoter, no amendments of the SRS have been accepted. It can be said that it is a programming ideological difference, that it is the explanation of the minister of education. But if you look at this amendment that I submitted to article 41 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, such an argument is simply not worth it. In this article and in my amendment, it has nothing to do with politics or ideology or the programme, it is a purely technical amendment, which should, if accepted, prevent some negative consequences for users or students of some higher education institutions. Article 41 of Article 17 of which I have submitted the amendment reads: "The higher education institution for which no funding from the Republic's budget is provided is obliged to provide, in addition to the requirement laid down in Article 2 of this Article, a bank guarantee for the continuation and completion of studies in the event of termination of work of an institution or the termination of the implementation of a specific study programme, according to the planned number of students". So, the government imagined that some private university, which is not financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, in order to get permission and consent to work should provide a bank guarantee that if, although they receive students who pay their tuition, etc., and perhaps pay advance education to the end, they should terminate their work, then the obligation on those students should be taken over by the state, or state universities, and with that bank guarantee, they would pay for the continuation of the education of those students. The understandable wish of the government, he won't do anything for nothing. Now, in this amendment, all we've asked is for a bank guarantee to go along with a contract with another higher school institution that would be certified by the ministry. It means that this private university makes some kind of contract with another higher school institution that will receive their students and that their education will be paid by that banking guarantee, if that private university is completed or terminated, one question is now being asked - and what are the consequences of not accepting this amendment. The consequences are that students would then have to, even though they paid for their education, learn how they can and know, which state university institutions will recognise the exams they have already passed, whether they will recognise the plan and the programme of that private university, whether they will accept those students to continue schooling where they left off or will force them to start doing it from the beginning. I see the minister is much more important than the law itself. He has provided the majority of the SPS parliamentary group and can now speak well with them, and for the sake of the public to say this. The question arises what if no state university will accept those students, what if they won't admit the exams they've already passed. Does the state want to put the state university in a position of privilege or not in relation to the competition it sees in private universities? Maybe because of some universities' initiatives, they don't care about the profession, they care about the money. That might work, but looking at it can't do it at all, it's not working. So that's the first problem now. How would that work out? If a university or a higher education institution signs a contract with a private university that it will accept students if that private university stops working, it means students who want to continue schooling at that state school. So they already paid and have no other financial obligations. The two universities have to agree on their programmes, have to agree on exams, have to agree on deadlines, and in any case, with the obligation to sign one such contract, it is certain that this private university will make it work even better on its programme and activities, and find as much as possible better when it loses its right to contract. What good is that? Only in favour of those who learn at those universities, institutions, etc. That was the goal of putting up with this amendment, and not what it looks like to the minister in his pathological hatred for the SRS, that there are some policies here. There isn't. This is purely about technique, how to provide students who study at private universities in the event that the university is terminated, terminated, or for some other reason does not continue the plan of carrying out activities. Who's supposed to take care of those students in the end? It's normal to worry about the state, but now in what way. In the proposed way, the state only worries about providing financial resources, and what will happen to those to whom these funds are intended, it has nothing to do with it. What's important is that we have some guarantee, we activate it if that facility stops working, we take the money, we deploy it to universities. What about the students? Students will have to extract certificates from the already closed facility that they have reconciled their financial obligations, to verify indices, to seek confirmations of the exams, of the completed follow-up, etc. It is normal that, with this contract, it would be the obligation of a private university to, in the event of this unpopular matter of the closure of the university and the termination of its work, to the state school, to the state university with which it has a contract, send its documentation on the students from the secretariats of the State School, that the simple and technical part be made easier for students. There's no politics, no programs, no ideologies. It's purely technical, but it's hard for us if in the education of this kind of government as it is, it's just politics, and I think it's the only reason why we don't accept this and many other similar amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18594	According to the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18595	This used a bank guarantee, it's a weedy formulation, and it's meant as a means of security. The financial security means that in the event of the termination of a higher education institution, the funds serve to complete the studies at another high school institution that has not yet been shut down. This article's problem is contained in attitude 2, so it's contained in attitude 6 and here's what's being looked at. It is a member who regulates the issue of a permit for the work of a higher school institution and it is really not clear who decides on it. It is said here that the ministry is issuing work permits, but the whole process is being conducted in front of the commission, and even further said if the commission gives a positive opinion. What does that mean? A procedure determines whether the conditions laid down by law are met, and a positive opinion can be at the level of emotion. There is no clear distance, the National Assembly, the Government, the Ministry and everything that is the portfolio under the ministry, what are professional affairs and what is the relationship, and we will agree, it is clear who can issue individual legal acts. I'm asking these MPs to the university professors, now explain to me if by any chance there would have been an end to the work of the Faculty of Banking and Trade of BK University, which the state college would have accepted that students who had been there for a year due to the termination of that BK college, who would have accepted those students. I'll tell you right now, no state college would accept a living head to do that. Then there's the question, why this provision? This provision is similar to that of banks where deposit insurance funds are allocated, that if a bank goes under bankruptcy, there is the means to settle some obligations. But a student is not a claim, and there's a problem. Similarly, there are insurance companies, where, by shutting down one insurance company, there are certain obligations, and the obligations need to be met by someone else in the name and means of one who is being shut down, but students are not wanted, the study programmes are not what would be said as tangible goods. That's not what was taken care of. If this is the first step in something new, then I'm telling you that at this step everyone will trip and, besides, whether the state has the right to allow someone to form a school, so the school is in the extreme case, to educate people, they get diplomas based on completed programs, exams and if anyone appreciates those diplomas. Who hires BK University students? Just BK. Does anyone think about what we're going to do tomorrow when we're making some regulations, so if as a minimum condition for starting a working relationship and working on certain jobs, we've only got four or five, and you forget them in private, or law school. What can a pandan do to a law school? He's gone. What in the private sector could be a pandan of medical school? He's gone, or he can eventually come into existence, but still this law needs to be changed. Those of my observations on the malpractice who think that the rectors have exams, about each of our amendments only gets even more weight, and this thing with points and these programs, I think that most of the people who worked on this committee and suggested this, they don't even know what an educational programme is, they don't know what a single-item program is, which requires a level of knowledge of scale and quality, with which level of knowledge comes out after a passed exam and what the useful value of that knowledge is. That's why state universities, state colleges, as nurseryrs, I have to tell all the diplomas that exist in this room and 99% of the higher education degree in this country, don't degrade, don't degrade them, don't build a high school institution. The rector is a variable category. After Dejan Popovic, someone else, another political group, can come, so when she starts applying what you wrote, in her own way to interpret those provisions, then, gentlemen from the NGO sector who are proposing this, again to mobile phones and otherwise to make protests, to blow whistles and to say it's not democratic. The student is a student, the doctor of teaching science is a professor, the university is a school. Keep an eye out, nothing's changed in a few hundred years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18596	Any other parliamentary groups on the same amendment? Here you are, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18597	The thing is, counterpart Krasic cares too much about what happens if someone studies with "Brothers Karic". He says, "Who's going to hire those who graduate from the Karic Brothers University?" If no one hires them, they won't even study there. It's a risk. Who makes students enroll in the University of "Brothers Karic"? If this university doesn't hire graduates, the university will lose every rating and no one will ever sign up again. Neither does the U.S. State make sure anyone graduates from private school. It is known if he finished MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology), Perdju, Berkeley etc. All his doors are open. There are hundreds of state and private universities in America that are hard to work with. That's why they choose where they're going to study. Let our youth choose where to sign up. Besides, I don't think any bank is going to give a guarantee at all. After all, when someone goes to college, he starts a bonding relationship, so let the university worry about what he'll do with it if there's a cancellation. That worry about where he's going to work, that's the risk of whoever chose where he was going to study.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18598	On the basis of article 101, you are wrongly interpreted. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18599	It's not good to keep it loose and have someone think I've got something against some university. No, that's not the point. This amendment, Mr. Arsic, referred to security funds, but not claims, but security funds, that money was provided that studies that were started or were under way at a higher school facility, which had been shut down in the meantime, could be completed. As a result, I mentioned a university. It's not all the same, and the state can't say, yes, you paid your tuition, you went to Bogoljub Karic, you got your diploma, and no one's gonna hire you. It's not the whole education reform that's meant to fit diplomas that don't mean anything and nobody admits. You can't let the state have that kind of reasoning about this thing. The state should now have a different reasoning, that by prescribing minimum conditions regarding the organisation and content of study programmes, fill-in controls to ensure quality, from each university and higher education institution as a condition that quality and diploma that are valued come out. That's what we're different about. We're asking this law, not to serially betray diplomas that no one admits. We had this situation - graduated from Peca, graduated from the University of Tito's Welles. So is this Zivkovic, and this Karic. He says -- we know him, he's that student, he's that guy, he's that guy. I don't think that's the point. If that's our point, then we cheat on our parents, we cheat on our students, we cheat on the economy, because they're going to get a degree like those in Zrenjanin, you know for themselves, so I don't bid on schools anymore, and what goes on in everything, or Sarajevo, where we get a master's degree in science with a stolen seal. I guess that's not the point to us. It is our obligation, as MPs, to pass a law to prescribe minimum conditions that the ministry must control whether they are met and who meets these minimum conditions for work, minimum conditions for accreditation of the programme, control. Then it means it's going to be a quality diploma, it's going to be a quality class. I agree with you, if you manage to complete 70 percent of the exam before the exam, 70 programs and check the knowledge before the factful passing of the exam, and if this law means that the student from the first to the last day of the school year has to be in college, sit down and study, colloquium, etc., it is a success. This is necessary in some universities, in machine, medical, chemistry, etc. It's different and it doesn't study. If we can do that, that's good, but I'm against this reason -- I don't care, he paid, he got a degree and let him take a picture with that diploma, no one has to hire him. Then we fooled everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18600	Here you are, according to the same amendment, MP Gašo Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18601	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, the first thing that's interesting is that one political party who basically advocates the centralization of the system and implements it literally, honors it, because anyone who literally executes a policy in my country is causing respect, the SRS suddenly moves on the issues of the university to a decentralisation system. The answer to this has now been received from this half sentence, and I did not want to go in and open that debate, which Mr Krasic said. He said -- he won't be a life-rector, there will be others who will interpret this law differently, apply it etc. What is not disputed is that in political and social history often whoever passed the law and whose law was at one point a servant became his master. So the role of the law changed compared to that of the one who initiated it. With this we must be clear, colleague Krasic, as I am, because we are lawyers and we know that the law serves. It's the rule of law. That's why I don't want to talk about Dejan Popovic or any other rector, but I want to talk about the principle -- what's behind the idea of an integrated university. Rationalization, in every way. This is what has given this country, which has been in a bad financial position for many years, the right to turn to an integrated university, and the motives behind every political party, I'm not talking about the SRS right now, I'm talking about, in principle, that at this point it controls the rector, but it doesn't control the Dean of Economic, Legal or Any Faculty, these are irrational motives for me, these are motives that have no political validity. They have short-term political validity, but in the long run they must break. For this reason, the focus of the discussion, in my opinion, must be turned to the question of what it is wearing integrated in relation to the disintegrated university, and I therefore thank Mr Krasic for this half sentence, which I would not have used, because I felt it was not necessary to open the field as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18602	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18603	Regardless of what I was talking about, it's a good thing Gašo Knezevic finally got to the pay phone, because all morning I've been trying to get him out, to give the right man criticism of this bill. I used that sentence in a completely different context, Mr. Gašo Knezevic. Why? You're going to take a stenogram and you're going to read that, as the GSS lost its domination in colleges, and somehow managed to fight for positions at university level, in the image of the rector, so did your fluid discussion on integration and disintegration. So everything's fine where our power center goes. Since our center of power is the NGO, the Civil League, the DS, those who love to cooperate, to praise how they co-operate, and they don't cooperate at all, but come on, as they change their positions, so is the regulation and every regulation is democratic that respects only their interests. Then I said, if that's the case, if you push through a law like this and make a record from college and university, and that's your wish, that the rector determines which college is going to develop, that the rector is directing and slowing the progress of the young scientific staff, so there's a change in the rector, then you're going to blow into whistles. It's your relationship to the law. So, your relationship with the law, Mr. Gašo Knezevic, is that you have a bill that is not even written, applied to get Seselj kicked out of college. Yes, the draft law that is in preparation, which is nowhere, you as a law professor, who knows what the act means, the general act, what the law means, who brings it, who publishes it, when it takes effect, how it is applied, you have used it for political abuse and political persecution, and you are now telling us that in half of the sentence you have concluded what we are complaining about and why you are now inserting the story, an integrated, disintegrated university. Why didn't you keep an eye on the quality of college classes at the department and university? Find me a touch point between the rector, who's a professor at medical school, and a program at law school and economics. What the department can talk about, if any structure is in the technical disciplines, about a university that does social sciences. And now you're convincing us, integrated, disintegrated, integrated, compact, performing uniquely, he's some kind of force. What a force. Why don't you say what you're standing by. You settle down at the university, it'll be the same and you'll have accounting, you'll have the same organs, you'll get consent to the statutes, we'll set up those deans, and we'll direct some of those funds. And what you're saying is, we're gonna stall the promotion or we're gonna raise it up a little bit, and the rector has to decide whether he's going to teach an extraordinary professor or a regular professor in the inheritance class. That's the point. The bastards figured it out. We weaken colleges, strengthen our rector. When our rector goes down, we take down the rector, we strengthen the dean.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18604	Here you are, People's Messenger Pai Mamchilov, according to the Businessman, is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18605	I think it's Article 104 for insulting the dignity of the MP. Namely, when you replicate once, the replica contained refers to another MP, here he is and flees, then it is an insult to the MPs. Please give me your word. I'm very sorry that you haven't been here all day and you haven't followed this discussion and that you can measurely then and judge. So, a man would have to be more present here, so if he could take a measure of decision here, as Mr. Minister has been walking all along, using this session for some business talks, interpartially, which can happen again, and it's wrong and it won't answer the basic questions asked. And I'd really like things to be clear for us here, too, because I'm saying, we're all talking about people, so probably when we don't understand things, maybe our citizens don't understand. Now, the honorable gentleman who ran away this bravely, he said, "So he runs away, so he runs away, you know what kind of people they are, and what character they are."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18606	I warn you, Mr. Momchilov, that you do not insult the messengers of the people, no one has escaped, some have gone out, some have entered. Be kind and speak without insult, for you have called upon a member, that no messenger of the people may be offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18607	Okay, let's adopt this intervention of yours, then, so I don't speak in that tone. I mean, it's a harsh lie. When someone's telling the truth, you can't treat him with respect, at least I can't, it's my temperament, it's my education. He said the SRS always advocates centralization, and now suddenly it's changed its attitude. That's not true at all, we also advocate decentralisation, one of our programming principles is local decentralisation, rights. It's not decentralisation when someone wants the Serbian people's corps to tear and the state of Serbia to split. We're against it and we'll get along right now. When we say that there may not be a need to give the autonomy of Vojvodina, which is our programming principle, we do not think that it should be for the reason that the majority Serbian people are there, and that such a small country should not be remade and should not be broken in such an additional way by the national Corps. We are here for centralised, that the national Corps lives unitedly, that the Serbian state be a united state where its citizens live, and that's true. That untrue is difficult, he says, suddenly from today on we become fighters for decentralisation. That's not true, until now, colleges had legal status and had a jury account. So it's a condition so far, and this is a complete newspaper. I said and I repeat again now, why are we in principle to keep this state, why are we against this unnatural union? Because autonomy in its meaning means self-government, independence, independence and self-determination. You can't have a big agglomerate on your own, self-determined, I guess that's clear. Autonomy is a prerequisite for academic freedoms, and you need to understand that. But I said, to those who use a new speech, to twist the terms and give them the opposite meanings of the so far existing, it's possible to talk about united autonomy. I repeat, Belgrade University, a large company with 10,000 employees and 50,000 students, discusses uniquely in the scientific council on all problems of all universities. Is it normal, is it quality, is it worth it, why Germany, France doesn't do it. Watch who's working. For he who has been tortured, pressured by sanctions and bombings, it is adopted by Bosnia, Montenegro, we now need to look up to such countries, and that what the developed world does should be thrown under our feet. Therefore, it is better for Mr. Knezevic to really watch what he says, to speak the truth, and to serve his arguments. Mr. Minister, I'm just going to take this opportunity, you haven't answered a single question, and that's your shame. Now I'm going to tell you again, when you're not interested in this law, how is it that, thanks to you and your fight with the Ministry of Health, prominent professors, directors of schools that are on white bread today? How is that possible in times of democracy, of Europe, a single mother with two children, who you've forced to resign, and today there's no income? At least answer that, if you're not interested in the law at all, if that representative of yours has already escaped.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18608	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ambassador Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18609	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, and today, as of this morning, we are talking about the proposal for a law on higher education in particular, that is, by the amendments submitted, and mostly by the MPs of the SRS. We don't think that's good. It would be good to hear what our proposals and our amendments think and colleagues who plan to vote for this law, and in particular it would be good to hear what the government's representative thinks about it, here physically present Minister Vuksanovic, because we worked in the minister's absence this morning, and even when he is present, as far as his participation in the work is concerned, it's exactly the same as if he's not here today. You know very well that we had all kinds of ministers here who represented the government's proposals. We had ministers who were rich and insulted by the MPs and in some way fought with the MPs, and they gave us a political lesson, but at least they noticed that the MPs were sitting in this room and talking about the government's proposal. This Vuksanovic, simply, is obviously not interested in this law, if he knows what he suggested to us on behalf of the government, since yesterday in the principle debate, he said only three sentences, two of which thanked some MPs who submitted the amendments. In their address to the former minister, they were communicating with each other on that "I to you, Duke, you to me, Serdar". So, when it comes to Article 47, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted the amendment, and in Section 7, which speaks of the organisation of a higher education institution, and says: "The Faculty, or an art academy, has a legal personality if it has at least three approved, or accredited study programmes. "It is proposed to delete the words - if it achieves at least three approved, or accredited study programmes. Why? Because this position of a member of 47th is an obvious prerequisite for the destruction of state colleges, above all, of a state law college that should, and in fact represents a real institution of higher education which is, for many reasons, preceding higher education and which is with a long tradition, but which this new law, or new provision, will certainly not be able to meet. It is impossible for the Faculty of Law, as well as many universities, especially the social direction, to achieve what this member foresees; in order to have a legal personality should achieve at least three approved study programmes. We talked about this in principle debate, but unfortunately we didn't get any answer, except in some discussions of a colleague who will vote for this law and when this was mentioned about the Bologna Declaration which, for your information and for the sake of the public above all, is not a binding act, because if it were then it would be a convention and not a declaration. Furthermore, the Bologna Declaration does not even provide for what you have provided for in Article 47 of Article 7 of this Law. You are again, as in many draft laws, greater Catholics than popes, you offer again and what is not required of you. Of course, it's always at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. This time it is at the expense of the state colleges, a large number of students, i.e. all students of the university and of the state colleges in Serbia, but that is why you are opening the door here to private colleges and, of course, it is known that Minister Vuksanovic is a lobbyist of Gaše Knezevic and Goran Pitic, when it comes to their private college, which they founded when they stopped performing ministerial functions. And not only this member, but others are subject to these private interests, private colleges, and it's really not good. If the Government doesn't see it and if it is looking at it in some other way, then the MPs should read and look more seriously at our amendments, and the proposed legal text, and make sure that we really want this law to be applicable, at least this member and this position, and that it really is a law that will rightly regulate this very important area of social life. The MPs who will vote for this law, mostly, when they talk about our or their amendments, keep pointing out some insinuations and some conclusions about how we've been working under some bad law so far, how we have a poor higher education system and that it's necessary to bring this system into line, who I don't know, because what you've predicted in this article and what I've been asking for, let's say there's no German university, or their higher education system, but here you've plotted that it should be here with us. On the other hand, you're saying that again from some, you generally attribute it to some past, although it's particularly characteristic of the last five years, you're talking about the departure of highly educated people, very professional, most professional personnel from Serbia, and you're saying wherever our experts go they're first-class. They really are. Well, now you have to state if we have a bad higher education system, if we do, then we can't have good highly educated experts. There's something wrong, there's some kind of colitis, something that doesn't fit the right condition. What I've said is that you haven't taken these problems seriously enough to solve these problems and regulate this area, but simply – you or someone has drawn it out for you, it's said here that there are a lot of NGOs involved here, and the NGOs and obviously it is – there's some agreement that this is how it's regulated, that this law is passed, and obviously no one cares what consequences it will have. I continue to argue, and my colleagues have said that before me, the minister is not interested, that he does not want to participate in the work with the MPs, and I repeat once again that he obviously does not know what he is proposing. So once again, I ask my fellow Members to adopt our amendments and at least to give you as much courtesy as possible of this text.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18610	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18611	He's gone again, Gache. Here's another piece of evidence, and I think the minister will be interesting, given that what I'm about to talk about is not his narrow specialty. You see, it's right that some people have legal personality status, and that by some definition means they have the ability to be bearers of rights and obligations, but they can also respond. It means that they have some property to fulfil their obligations and, as a rule, the status of a legal person depends on it. In the case of an association engaged in the exercise of general interest, the legal person’s status shall be secured by founding capital, by some means and otherwise, it shall be potential to act on the general interest, but shall not be touched by what is the basic concept of the legal person’s status definition. These NGOs have not tied the non-legal status of a legal person at the university to the ability, to be the bearer of rights, obligations and responsibilities in legal traffic, but to the will of someone above. Look how funny that sounds when it's written to fulfill the wishes of only those who, believe me, don't think well of this country and this people. He says, "The organisation of a higher education institution is governed by the statutes, in accordance with the law establishing the law." That's acceptable. "A single higher school institution establishes higher education units as a form of internal organisation, in accordance with the statutes." So, the doctorate founded colleges, the university founded colleges, but we have a problem, here we have older colleges than the university, vice versa. They convince us that the baby gave birth to grandmothers, experts, experts, and that's why you masters will raise your hands. Furthermore, the school's erosion is said: "The college, or art academy, has a legal personality if it achieves at least three selected, or accredited study programmes". You see, inside the university, we'll have colleges with a legal personality and no legal personality. It's kind of like the concept of asymmetrical Federation, where federal units have different degrees of rights and at different distances are located from the central. Based on this, it's likely that the medical college will get legal status, probably also legal. However, in order to prevent this from happening now, three accredited study programmes, approved or accredited study programmes, were introduced. Now they're chasing colleges to meet this condition to ensure so much independence that they can breathe. The problem is-- who's mom, and who's the kid? At that relationship -- who's a mom and who's a kid, right now they're running these hoodlums who installed this bill and planted it to the public, and our government is guilty of accepting it, so she said, just so there's no noise, who pleases those professors every honor, give him what they're proposing, I guess they know best, just to get rid of it, and that's why the Ministry gave over 30 and some amendments, the 31 amendments had to be submitted to their act, because they couldn't stand it. When you attack the Ministry, I'm a little uncomfortable. They are fully aware that nothing is wrong with this, but Europe via Turajlićka, Bogdanovićka, via Dejan, Pera, Djoke, Mike, Laza, here goes again, through the plagiar of Lilić, Vodanelici, you know when they possess the media, when they run out and start talking, and when they come from abroad, they start, the prosecutor, the prosecutor, and the government said, let it go, just to get off with nobody calling us, whether we're all sick or not, we're just missing teachers over our heads. That is why, gentlemen, the MPs, no matter which party they belong to, we are here to say, to criticise, to warn of the adverse consequences that can cause such an unsettled concept. The government acknowledges that it is an unspeakable concept, it has given 31 amendments, and has persuaded some MPs to write amendments. If, and if she got them to fix something, but it couldn't be fixed, humped since birth, it's not going. It doesn't work, the interests of several rectors are satisfied, several interest groups around the rectors, and there's the end of the story, the state is nowhere to be found. The Ministry is moving away, you can't stick around, that's what Bologna said. You don't have a quality man in the Ministry who knows how to interpret what's written in the Bologna Declaration. That's not true. I would love it if the government and the Ministration understood all of our efforts, to fight for the education system, to fight for dignity, to fight for both these teachers and those students. We've gotten a little bit of the subject of the content of the program and we're not competent to do that. Let's leave it to the university. It's precisely in colleges that you know who the expert is in which area, who can best look at it, who can do it analyticalally best, because besides, the program is kind of a dissertation, because it's done by scientific principles. Not every text is scientific text. It must satisfy some kind of system that is necessary and be the result of some research and some finding. But this is where we get planted. The NGO sector with professors, doctors, masters, experts, experts ended it and ended it, ended up in Norway, ended up here or there. Shut up, our luck, we don't have that Scandinavian language expert, the bald one who's been lecturing us for three years how he knows everything best about the university. He's probably had a fight about this, so he's not involved. Be conscious, look, put this back, do something that's normal, which is consistent with the tendencies of that Bologna. The idea with points, not to stop the passing, that our students can study abroad, that's not a big problem, and it's not a big problem. There are no barriers to science and boundaries. Someone mistakenly thinks there are some boundaries. There's no limit to science. Science is developing. That's our interest. Why would we be in a state of knowledge 50 years ago when the whole world grabs and moves on? That's what we want to chase, to get there, to get there, and we won't accept that our bad guys, because of their positions, are destroying our education.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18612	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia and joint MPs Milisav Misa Petronivici Zarko Obradovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18613	Yes, we continue, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to talk about what are all the mechanisms of abolishing jurisdiction, abolishing the status of the university. Here's one of those who's vaguely developed. Through the concept of university supervision at university functions, but in how carefully I read all this undertone, I see that there is a mix of different functions and responsibilities of these superiors to this subordinated. So, the academy, the university's vocational studies at colleges and academys. We ask that this be deleted because of this conglomerate of jurisdiction that not only is mixed, but that each institution would retain the powers it has so far. So, surely, the basic powers she's had so far have been the adoption of curricula, each for herself. The Faculty made its own teaching programs, i.e. according to this new reform now, in Article 28, which you did not even describe the content of the study programme, when it was spoken of you did not even decidently say who was bringing it, and should have been said that it was brought by the appropriate scientific and educational higher colleges, or larger universities, but it was not written, and it was merely implicated through the text that they were competent. We see that the university brings them. Yeah, he can do the studies he's organizing. The university has already verified the plans and programmes that bring colleges. But there's also a whole series of misunderstandings, what's going to happen when you say college in the university, what Mr. Krasic was talking about, he decides to break off, he won't put up with the rector over his head, he wants to be independent, he makes three directions, and now he becomes an independent institution. How now? Now those programs he's brought in have to give the university to verify them, study programs, and then when he becomes independent who's going to test it now. Now he has to wait for the National Educational Council to go through accreditation, etc. If it's all in the private sector now, then they'll never ask for accreditation again. One single accreditation when it receives it is peaceful, since it is not stated that the ministry can also seek re-creditation, re-checking of material, technical, programming and other working and rights conditions resulting from the issue of public documents after that accreditation, after the establishment of rights and labour permits. So it's not all the way. Bringing study programs, that's what I've been commenting on. Quality control. You see, we've given some authority and commissions, experts to do this, security, control and quality and national council. We said -- the university conference proposes criteria -- where does quality control come from now? Maybe she's internal control, but it's given to lower general acts. They make internal criteria for self-control, self-evaluation. Maybe that's what they thought. The choice to call teachers, that was so far, has been certified by the university of our titles, academic, or lecturer, teacher. The issue of diplomas and the addition of diplomas to the university remains, for 100 years puts on one side the dean stamp, on the other side of the university, that was it. So there's no need for this to stand out as a special jurisdiction of an independent institution. But what may not be planning a policy of hiring and hiring teachers and associates can be a problem now. So the university can stop a college that tends to develop itself further and make three directions. You won't be able to do it anymore. You don't have any money. You can make it, but you can finance yourself, and you can finance yourself, what's the legal proposal, when you get some money, it controls you again. Maybe you pulled that off, I don't know, the government's amendment interventions. And then what he would now be motivated to open. Most of all, they were motivated to create para-faculties, wherever there's someone with 30,000 residents opening up the legal, economic, management department of someone and here or holding a gig, and then after you find time to be with a student, to make 100 points together. How it's going to be, Mr. Minister, I don't know, I asked you to explain it today, because you're convincing the public that it's very good and that he guarantees passing the exams, just so students and professors can be together, and when, where, how, at the medical school, when these teachers are both operators and surgeons, they give a lecture, they lead the exercises, then the assistant will become a professor, so what they're with him, the exercises are for four or five hours, they're pretty practically ignorant there came from this. So I personally advise you, don't fool the students with the fact that what they're going to spend near the professor, I don't just know what professor, 70% of their time, and they can do it formally. They're gonna get us some paper, which we all have in colleges, these forms on which to stamp that he was in class. You know how they work, you get 10 tours of your desk, you pull an assistant so as a cop reads how many have come and stamped. Ugly, inconclusive, because college is a college, it's not a mandatory thing. He wrote it down, he will, he won't, he doesn't have to finish it, and you have a concept of whoever wrote it, he has to finish it, and with 37 points, and 35, and if he's not a lawyer, he'll be an intern, and he'll be a counselor and he'll bring papers. She said Turajlikka can do that, she doesn't have to do that. And what's that? The university is academic, they say great people, ordinary people, clear things, translate meaning, termological. What does that have to do with He won't study, he won't come, he won't finish, end of story. Did he give you money? Propo, propo, which gave money, which he didn't work for what he was capable of. I don't even understand that advocacy policy. Each one will be, enter, overcome the obstacle, enroll, or persuade your father and mother to give money, pay for it, and some of you will be; for it will always be found if not a diploma, then a testimony. We'll come up with some name you'll get and then you'll be. What kind of doctor will be with the testimony I can't wait for when it comes to you explaining it to me, what exam doesn't have to know and not make 260 or 300 points without being a doctor. Or he'll sign up self-financed, and then he'll become a doctor there with 37 points. I criticized those reasons this morning. Exceptionally famous, to admit the magazine, then you didn't at least put it exclusively on medicine, so they all have to have 60 points. But there's another problem. You'll see after class for medical schools. Three colleges, I have these examples, different basic content have, different scope studies for the same subject, have different electoral items, and everything is worth it. Then how are you going to do it now? Someone's gonna make 65 points. He'll take some light object, 65 points, cut off 60 mandatory ones, who can forbid him to know more, Turajlikka isn't involved in this, she's usually punishing it, and you're calm. Point 65, you'll punish him if he takes the item, he wants his electoral item, and in the sum of those others, he'll be 65. He'll be punished. How? What? What were you making up? What was that for? Planning a employment policy, now the university will plan a high-school employment policy. Isn't it enough for him to be able to suppress if someone doesn't have the criteria to choose from? I still think that a conference of colleges related to the same professions can do better. They know better in medicine whether I'm worth being a professor of medical school, regular or extraordinary, or a doctor, to tell me all of Serbia's medical schools, than to be included in that university, in which are lawyers, biologists, economists, technicians, engineers, airmen, etc. If there was any change in that, but we didn't, we didn't touch it either. It was at the university, and the university didn't show any need, and the university didn't scream begging -- do us a reform. They're individuals who've always had little to do, who didn't want to sign this paper either, they didn't mind doing anything. These people could have been strong and hanged, some of them, I don't agree with politics, I don't want to work, so they go and work abroad for twice as much money, and they're heroes here. They could, but of course not all of them. According to the labor contract, the labor contract, it's now called that, then it's called, it's signed, it's working, it's handing over, no one's touching your teaching content, no one's checking you out. Here's what's going to happen again - planning a employment policy. Once again, that planning can be taken under a lot of conditions. I don't know how it can all turn out, who's going to plan it, probably the collective organ, the advice, it's a little hard to plan. There you can create lobby clubs, they can all turn against medical professions because they have a chance of self-restraint. We won't let you, now you won't be able to open that direction and that direction, you have two missing direction three. These mine have managed, opened three, can be left alone. And what about those who have two and need a third? He's opened up the pharmacy again somewhere, and then some dentistry, and now he's going to say -- now the world, the new law, we don't give that and that frame, and this one put the 50% teacher criterion there has to cover it so he can open it. So there's always a way to make something out of this law that won't be useful for institutions, and everything worked out, I don't say ideally, there's nothing ideal. It could have been on the ground of an existing law that we criticized, because it's less evil than this. That's where it could've been done. The law we have criticised is closer to the solutions that we stand for than this is now what we see. What you are now introducing here in terms of the current law is possible, recommended, acceptable, etc. This is and the media is true. We are against it and this is one of the ways that we support our efforts to leave colleges not to be touched and here we are accidentally on the trail of the interests of the Belgrade University and these famous legislators, who have corrected the draft proposal to this version that is not acceptable to us and probably many universities in Serbia. I guess the academic public didn't get too tired to watch this and follow up, and recognize their interests. Of course, practice will still show everything, regardless of our political duels here. I think we'll have it in front of us soon, if this goes on, but of course by those laws, we can see by the transitional provisions that it's not going to happen soon enough, so if it does, we'll see the good and the bad side of these proposals. We don't believe there are any good ones at all. Not a lot, but that there's a lot of them at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18614	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18615	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I found it appropriate that tonight here, defending this amendment, I'm defending the Minister even though he's not here. The minister is not only the minister of education, but if you remember in the division of office, for sport and education. In addition to all the problems related to education, the minister must take care of both sports and sports health of our nation. To this end, he has made quite an effort to renovate some sports grounds that serve our youth. There are many tenders and many unclear items, though. When the minister is here and if we fail to discuss this debate, and I believe that all discussions under the laws will stop very quickly, because there will be a new activity called pre-election campaign and elections, and then after these elections we will discuss these tenders and these figures that are here. The minister, in addition to education, has another very responsible job, because he appointed the directors of economic schools, so we got, the SRS parliamentary group got that he appointed in Lesposavic, the only criteria he had to meet for appointment, in addition to the defensive doctoral thesis, had to be either a member of the party, and the party was small, or had to belong to an NGO, even if it was free builders. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on this man whom the minister has assigned to the post of Director More Economic School, so many complaints have arrived at the SRS Parliament Club from the people who work at this Higher Economic School, in this institution, from his cabadian behaviour, to the crime of paying, giving double salaries to individuals, etc. But let's get back to the amendment. By defending the amendment to Article 48(2) and Article 48(3), the National MP, Prof. Dr. Poscurica, said so much about the amendment to Article 48, so that I believe that the adoption of amendments for Articles 2, 3 and 4 for Article 48, Article 48, should be completely deleted, for the simple reason that the management and financial independence of the university is abolished. It's the only thing that matches private colleges, and it certainly doesn't fit the state colleges. What about state colleges? It is necessary to leave the current state and that the university remain a legal person. Autonomy is there, ladies and gentlemen, or it's gone. If she does, she's in college, and besides being in college, there is a university institution. The professors of Resavia's copying school are still working on certain colleges, known for the affairs that SRS MPs have opened here. The Resava school may have been art at a time when books were copied, and today it's stealing, plagiarism. And today, regardless of the government's commitment since 2003, we say, that it will clear up the question of thieving and crime, and the day-to-day professor who stole from a dead man's work, it is about Stevan Lilić, who has gone into intellectual elite, because the intellectual elite goes through knowledge, scientific achievements, etc. He's been swindling over the late Lazo Kostic, and today the same man's head hair isn't missing. If this Belgrade university were to wait, there would certainly be more Stevan Lilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18616	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18617	I would just draw attention to the difficult logical problems contained in this bill, and to understand that college has become an organisational unit of the university. About status changes, although it's problematic what a status change is, but let's get going. Article 47 states: "A decision on status change, changing the name and seat of a higher school unit in the form of a university (a college) with the property of a legal person is taken by the university's two-thirds majority body. "Somethin' that has legal status is inconsistencies. The decision on his fate is made by another qualified majority. I'm just making this an example of what you're putting into the norm. The previous amendment referred to our pledge to be, to use that termology of yours, an independent higher education institution, which is why it is proposed to delete Article 3, Article 48's position, but you in Article 4, you say, "The Higher School Unit has the right to propose on the issues referred to in Article 3, in a manner governed by the statute of the university. "It's as if it's her right opportunity for the university to propose to the university rector so significantly, so much in accordance with autonomy, that it must be potentiated and said, yes, we took everything from you, but we left you the right to suggest. The law never burdens itself with provisions if someone proposes or gives an opinion, unless the proposal and opinion have the burden of directly affecting a general or individual legal act. Please, the choice to call teachers at the University of Belgrade goes to the principalate, to the university. The least to say is that it is unfair of those who have acquired all university knowledge at their own university that they are now consecrated to young generations and require political similarity, that their advancement and career depend on the rector. Now someone's gonna go out and say, "Please, the rector isn't so self-sufficient, he's asking college colleagues, the rector can be a doctor, a medical professor, so he doesn't know the real thing or the economy." Of course, it will be through some university bodies and through an organisational unit of colleges to inquire, to find out, a commission will be formed, a report will be made, etc. Everybody chases to the regular, keeps it for life. Sevala is talking about the migration of political influence from university to university, or rector. Probably doing some efficiency is easier for the government to talk to six and twelve people than with several hundred deans, it'll be easier to form a conference, everything will be much easier. Why? Because there's a Bologna behind that and before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18618	The word has an MP, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18619	Mr. Krasic, you see a god in the rector. It's not like that. He has a better position among professors, and so far, if you didn't know, the university has given a final word on the choice of teachers. There were various scientific areas at the University of the Commission. I was on my own for two years in the commission of natural math sciences. There are reports on candidates and decisions from a larger university, and that commission confirms. When that commission returns its position to the university, then the choice is made. It's not true that everything is given to the rector. Don't talk for 15 minutes, there's no need. Watch me talk about the amendment for two or three minutes and enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18620	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18621	Of course, it is my goal that as many MPs who support the government come out and oppose these views of mine, to draw public attention to what is happening and what is being prepared. Yeah, that's what's getting ready to piss you off. The rector will be an alpha and omega and a nomenclature around him. If you don't believe me, read the bill. I didn't make anything up, Mr. Simonovic, I just read what it says in the bill. In this bill, Mr. Pokurica read to you: "To achieve the objectives set out in Article 2, University, or Academy of Professional Studies, has special competences in the following areas", among other things, there are 12 points, the sixth point says "choice in calling teachers"; further: "security and quality control, adoption of study programmes, strategic planning of investments, planning of policies of employment and engagement of teachers and associates". For university, read the rector with your circle. If that's advice, bigger, it doesn't matter at all. The Rector does that, and the university gets the right to propose. I know you've been a member of the board, that you've been hired as a teacher in postgraduate studies, so I guess you know how to make a choice in calling a doctor, an extraordinary professor and a regular professor. You were a member of the commission who made the report and the proposal. (Velimir Simonovic, from the place: I know very well, but you don't know. ) Mr Simonovic, I do know a little bit, because I probably wrote some 800 pages and ran one dispute, and the proof that I know is in the back row, here is Gašo Knezevic. He also read complaints, and lawsuits, and complete correspondence, and the interpretation of all the provisions he ran over. When you conclude, on the basis of your experience, that you know and on this basis you conclude that others know nothing, then, Professor, you're probably wrong. I was just quoting what was written in your bill. You deny it. That's the difference between you and me. So far, many more colleges have been asked about these questions in Section 3. He was even on his own. Now as far as it can go, it is possible to make a proposal on one of these issues from point 1) to point 12) of Article 48. It's a small, but huge difference. He was doing something on his own, and now he can only propose. If that's the same for you, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18622	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Vukkovic and Slobodan Pajovic submitted the 53rd amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 59 of the amendment, the MPs Zarko Obradović, Milisav Misa Petronijevic and Svetislav Krstic shared their submissions. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Misa Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18623	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 59. Proposal for a law on higher education. Let me remind you, article 59 is talking about getting funds from the founders. The founder provides funding to a higher education institution, which states at 14 points for which all purposes. We have submitted an amendment to supplement another point. We have suggested adding a new point of 9 in Article 59 after 8): "the financing of students of military disabled and children of fallen fighters and children of disabled men". Of course, points 9 to 14 so far would become points 10 to 15. So, in addition to certain categories of students, for which this member is justified by the obligation of the founders of higher education institutions to provide the necessary means for the schooling of those students, such as in point 8) - working with gifted students, then in point 13) - creating conditions for studying students with disabilities. We believe that it is justified to prescribe such an obligation for founders and in relation to the provision of funds for the study of students of military people with disabilities, students of children of fallen fighters and children of military people with disabilities. Let us be clear immediately, under the conditions prescribed for enrolment and education established by a higher education institution. So, nothing beyond the required norms and school conditions at the high school facility. We believe that this amendment is justified, given the circumstances under which the disability occurred in the disabled, i.e. the death of the fighters whose children are achieving that status, it is the obligation of society to take special care of these persons, of course, as far as possible in the given social and economic conditions. In addition to children of fallen fighters and children of military disabled people, who are certainly interested in this, we believe that younger military disabled people should also be allowed to pass through to the highest educational institutions in the country, if they deserve it by their talent, work and work resistance. Therefore, they do not require any privileges for these students in relation to the results achieved in the exams, in the entrance exam and in the course of schooling, compared to other students. It is a relatively small number of persons who will apply for enrolment in higher education institutions. According to the estimates of these associations, the total number that can be subject to it is not even 500, so it does not require any large funds. If you allow, the chairman, for reasons of rationality, the amendment to Article 84 is a logical extension of this amendment to Article 59, only there is a talk of the number of students who can enroll on the burden of the budget. So, the exact same explanation for the amendment to article 84 of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18624	I also realized that the amendment to article 84 was explained. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18625	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's an amendment that the MPs of the SRS will be very supportive and I hope that you from the ruling coalition will accept this amendment to be classified as an integral part of the law, if there is any vote at all. For what? It is not far a day, it is only five or six years from the moment when 18-year-olds, children went to war and defended this state to Serbia and many of them returned as disabled, second, third, and many first categories. It wasn't that far away when the parents of those children went to wares all over the country and left their lives there defending the interests of both the states of Serbia and the Serb people. It's the most humane, and I think it's binding for a country that has called on military troops to go to war, to take care of the children of those who left their health and those who left their lives on those battlefields. It is binding for the state that soldiers, regular soldiers, reservers who fought when this country attacked 19 members of the NATO Pact – although many of these members were your friends, they were also when they bombed us, telling the MPs of the ruling majority, ladies and gentlemen of the national MPs from the SRS, not to be confused – because many have come from these battlefields disabled. And what the state has to do, no matter how much this law and all the other laws you propose and make while you have a majority in parliament, but they smell the elections, is getting closer to the day when both the majority and this Parliament will lose, at least until then you have to worry about providing through legal form both the existence and the education of those young people whose parents are disabled or died and those young men who have been wounded in this last war.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18626	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. You're right, especially after Carla del Ponte's resignation today that they fought for the great Serbia, but that they fought for Yugoslavia. I'm talking about the prosecution, not you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first step away from the topic of the agenda and ask one parliamentary question in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, my parliamentary question is, when am I going to get an answer to the parliamentary question I asked over a month ago? Mr. Chairman, since the President of the Assembly is not here, I ask you to pass this on to him. I asked four parliamentary questions over a month ago about the work of the Tax Administration in Uzic. All the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure for the answer to this question have expired and I have not yet received the answer. I ask you to intervene with the President of the Assembly in order to get that answer as soon as possible, and of course other MPs who have the right to the Rules of Procedure to receive an answer to every parliamentary question. As far as the law itself is concerned, it has already been said here about the problems and shortcomings of this legislative proposal, the very fact that the government has submitted more than 30 amendments to its own proposal, that yesterday the Assembly Committee on Education sent another 11 amendments to the same proposal, says that this proposal is not good and should not be adopted like this and enter legal traffic. Yesterday I listened carefully to the MPs who spoke in the principle debate. Mr. Gašo Knezevic, in his opening statement as a representative of the parliamentary group, stressed and praised the bill, as he said, this proposal abolishs the autonomy of the university, Europe does not know it, but is transferring autonomy to the university. If I understand correctly, I apologize if something is different from what I realized in relation to Mr. Knezevic's exposure. I also said in my presentation that this is the basic idea of this proposal, but that the promoter is making a compromise, I don't know for what reasons, and he's giving away a little bit of his basic idea, so he leaves it to some colleges to have a legal personality and to have a certain degree of both economic and other autonomy. Article 47, which has already been explained and on which we Serbian radicals had an amendment, states that the university, or art academy, has a legal personality if it achieves at least three approved, or accredited study programmes. So there's a compromise that some colleges have a legal personality and some colleges don't have the same property, and there's a limit to it being three accredited programs, and the colleges that do it will be able to operate as a legal person, and those who don't meet that condition won't be able to operate as a legal person. I have submitted an amendment to Article 60, which actually relies on Article 47, is in fact one logical extension of all this, and my amendment is a logical continuation of Mrs Verice Radete's amendment, which has submitted an amendment to Article 47. In fact, Article 60 refers to revenue, its own revenues made by higher education institutions. It is stated in point 1 that the funds that the higher education institution achieves, other than the funds provided by the Republic, constitute its own income from the higher education institution. So it's in brackets -- tuition, providing services to third parties, gifts, donations and so on. The second point of view of this article is that the funds of the first position of a higher education institution, i.e. a higher education unit with legal personality, are available in accordance with the law and general law and the higher education unit. Again, a high school unit with a legal personality is mentioned. So again, those colleges that are part of the university, they mean, as high school units, but they have three programs, so they also have the property of a legal person, and that second attitude applies to them. With my amendment, I predicted that these words relating to those higher education units with the legal personality are deleted, that is, this amendment is in line with the definition and attitude of the SRS that all higher education units that are part of the university have legal personality characteristics, so that they have this autonomy and economical, in addition to all the other forms of autonomy they need to retain. This is the essence of our amendment to this article, and we think this should be accepted, given that a growing number of private universities will have legal personality properties, while many universities, which are part of the university, with a long tradition, will lose that property. Please, just think about whether it's logical that the university, which is part of the university, which does not have this condition and cannot meet the condition that it achieves three study programs, which, on one or more programs, enrolls thousands and more students, has no legal personality, and that some other college, which will achieve this condition and have three study programs, but to enroll 100 and 150 students, has a legal personality property. I don't think that makes any sense, and this amendment should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18628	Thank you. When it comes to parliamentary matters, I will ask the service to intervene, to see where it has failed when it comes to the answer, and it needs to arrive as soon as possible. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18629	Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate, I have stressed that in particular I will look back at several items and now I have the opportunity to, by explaining this amendment, highlight the finances and say something about private colleges. With regard to this article, some of the discussions coincide. The difference between the amendment explained by my colleague Jovanovic and my amendment to item 3 is only because it is about higher education units in attitude 2 with legal personality property and in attitude 3 without legal personality characteristics. First, the public needs to know that I asked for Article 3 to be deleted. That might be the most important thing I should have said before. However, the reason for this attitude to be deleted is that the bill abolishs the management and financial independence of the university, which only corresponds to private higher education institutions. Radeta and Jovanovic's MPs spoke about Article 47, which meets legal personality status, mentioned those three study programmes, then where funds are collected from, and that's already said, but that's tuition, providing services to third parties, gifts, donations, sponsorship and other sources of fund-raising. I was talking about these donations last time. I just want to get to know you what it is that a high school facility can pick up besides what it gets from the founders. But in paragraph 3, you have predicted: "The assets of Article 1 achieved by carrying out the work of a higher school unit without the legal personality shall have that unit in accordance with the law and general act of a higher education institution in which it is composed. "That means university. And yet this means that it no longer has its resources, but only one part, and the rest goes to the university, that it owns those funds. The difference between two universities or higher education institutions, private and state institutions, is that here at the private college the boss is wondering. So he's raising funds. He spends as much as he gets, and here's the high school facility, as much as he's given on a spoon. I suggest we leave the current state in which the university is an independent legal person and has all the rights that belong to it. This means the right to adopt study programmes, to assign diplomas, to organise studies by species and levels, to come forward as a legal person and, fundamentally, to have the budget and own funds that I have read in terms of what I have read.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18630	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18631	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the whole of the 60th is about state universities. Ms Natasa Jovanovic, MP of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to Article 560's position, and in close connection are all the views of this member, so by explaining the amendment to Article 5, I must also mention Article 6. Higher education units within the university's 1st position set out the part to finance joint jobs at university level. I said a little while ago that these funds, which the higher school unit achieves, except for the funds provided by the Republic, make their own income, and relate primarily to the tuition, especially paid by foreign students, because our university is still very interested in foreign students, and foreign students pay pretty high tuitions to our colleges, providing services, this applies to all medical services provided by the medical school, to all the design services that the construction or architectural or electrical college provides, and these are the funds that, in addition to the funds that the state allocates for these institutions, the higher education institutions themselves earn. Item 5 says -- higher education units within the university, refer to colleges, from the funding set out in St. 1st of this member, the part to finance joint jobs at the level of the university. Item 6 says - the allocation of funds under Article 5 is based on the planned scope and cost of activities determined by the university's decision on the current school year. So the university will literally cut through colleges as much as they have to transfer to university. If colleges are going to make that kind of income, the university doesn't care. Instead of the autonomy of the university we talked about – and it seems that autonomy is different for you, autonomy is at university level and colleges are working units, as joint working units, because they look more and more like it, from Broz's time of self-government socialism – they are units that have less and less rights and more obligations. And as far as this is concerned, this is a naked robbery and the little funds that are being passed over by state colleges, investing in the work of high-level, scientific personnel, and that's why SRS MPs are looking for, you've seen already in four amendments, that individual views of this member of the 60th are being deleted, in fact, the whole member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18632	Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18633	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 60th People's Parliament are regulated by the revenues that higher education institutions can make and a way of funding that is not from the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is particularly regulated in paragraph 1. which says: "the means which the higher education institution, or the higher education unit, achieves, other than the funds provided by the Republic, constitute their own income and higher education institutions or units", so it is said what it is, the tuition, the provision of services to third parties, gifts, donations, sponsorship and other sources of resource acquisition. In order to be within the framework of the law, in order to specify the way these funds are spent, this is regulated by Article 2: "The assets of the 1st position of this member of the higher school institution, i.e. the higher school unit with the property of legal ticks, shall be available in accordance with the law and general act of the higher education institution, i.e. the higher education unit". Those first two positions are not at all controversial in Article 60. What is disputed is in paragraphs 6 and 7, and in particular in paragraph 6, for which I requested this amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS, to delete. It says: "The higher education units of the University of Resources of Item 1 of this member are giving out the part to finance joint jobs at the level of the university." Paragraph 7 states: "The allocation of funds under Article 5 is based on the planned scope and cost of activities determined by the decision of the University Council for the current school year". Now the question is, what does this proposer want? Usually joint business is funded by the Republic. So, if there is a university, and there are several higher education units, it's perfectly normal to have jobs in common, and the financing of these joint jobs goes from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, where the funds are provided. The position I have proposed to delete is that if an institution, based on the ability of its managers, provides funds, that these funds do not belong to that institution, but belong to the university, as shown in Article 7. It's a bill of law. So, some university council sets out that these funds will be spent on joint jobs, and it is an obligation for the Republic of Serbia to finance these joint jobs. The question now arises as to the motivation of people who operate each and every high school institution whether they will provide funds such as sponsorship. A man needs to be a little more capable of forcing someone to sponsor a higher education facility, and we can talk about some other institutions, such as the Red Cross or the Unsupervised Children, you can already go to emotions. So, it's going to get someone for some science that some university or institution is dealing with, to finance in that science. But by proposing this law, he will not finance this science that he may be linked to but exclusively for an entire system called the university. The question arises whether both incompetent deans and executives of higher education institutions or units, which are part of the university, will fight for sponsors. It won't, because between 10 or 12 of them, as many as there are, one or two of them are supposed to be pulling for all together. Isn't that taking a little away from university autonomy? Isn't that how some people who are able to provide funds are demoted? Certainly to be demoted. This looks more like 70s and 80s to me, when I had to study Marxism by force in high school, from the age of socialist self-management. The science says that one who is capable and worthy cannot be financially rewarded for it because it is a class of society. So those who are incompetent will live on the burden of the capable. It seems to me that's the reason for this position in Article 60. A bill of law, and I don't see any others. So whoever is able to run one institution, one unit, a higher school institution, is able to provide funds, to provide normal working conditions, because often there is not enough budget to finance one such institution; no, because they can't pull away from it, just because it's a high school council that has the right to determine. These are the reasons why I submitted to Article 60 of position 6 of the amendment and asked for attitude 6, which simply defuses the work of good experts and good executives, to erase that attitude as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18634	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is Mr. Professor Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18635	Comrade Arsic, you're completely wrong. You forget the fact of who makes the university council. That's where college representatives sit, and they're making deals with who's gonna pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18636	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic. The word is Mr. Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18637	I highly appreciate Mr. Simonovic, but the law and his purpose is for him to be written so that bad people, if they come to the guiding places and if there are more in some advice, can't abuse it. The fact is also the experience since you came to power, gentlemen from the ruling majority, that not only in higher education institutions, but in most institutions that are from the Republic are mostly bad people. That's why the law exists, and that's why it says that if someone with bad intentions came to be prevented; it means that no one can be too loud, because there's no voting in that law. We can't make a law for good people and bad people, let's say we won't punish them and sanction them, because those people who do it right now are good, but they can be replaced and they can get the bad ones in their place. That's what it's about, Professor, not who makes the Council. Normally, if two or three wolves, ten of them will always vote and spend that money, it's nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18638	Mr. Arsic, is that under that "two bad-killed Milosha" parl? The word is from Professor Simonovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18639	It's a shame you have such a bad opinion of people who work at the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18640	Thank you, Professor Simonovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (No) Members of the 60th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. They've withdrawn the amendment to Article 60, and you've been notified in writing. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) On Article 61 of the amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18641	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 61. The proposal of this law, in the pretext, says the schoolgirl. So this is what should be taken into account in particular, since it was heard here yesterday in a principle debate that the government of the Republic of Serbia, and probably the ruling majority who will vote for this law, puts a student first, to take care of students in every respect. We were telling you yesterday that this is not true, that you are not referring to students at all by this law, at least not in the sense in which we Serbian radicals would like it to be. You will also see and speak in principle debate, we will also talk about the amendments in that section of the test deadlines, the evaluation, and so on, how much damage you've damaged your students here. And when it comes to tuition, paragraph 2 provides for the criteria for the establishment of tuition to be determined by a general act of the higher education institution. We have opposed this general provision and the amendment, which I have submitted on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have foreseen that Article 2 should read: "The criteria for the establishment of scholarships are governed by the general act of the higher education institution and agreed at a conference of universities, i.e. the conference of academia, vocational studies, i.e. with relevant student conferences". Why do we think this is supposed to be regulated this way? Because this proposed solution, I mean the government's proposal, would also lead to, since you will, of course, adopt it, to an uncontrollably high cost of tuition. Today, too, very high tuition prices and we Serbian radicals think it is unacceptable, that in the first year of the study, at least all the high school graduates who meet the conditions of enrolment should be enrolled, and that the material status of students, or their families, should not be allowed to be a brake for eventual enrolment, or that material status depends on whether someone who otherwise meets all the conditions, can enter a university or not enter it. Of course, we know the practice of all these private universities, we know how to study at BK University, we know that where the enrolment is paid and the exam can't be dropped on the exam. Of course, we want such things to be avoided, we want students to really learn and learn, but to create conditions for them to be able to enroll in college with some acceptable tuition so that they can learn in optimal conditions. Because this provision of yours will lead to the fact that colleges will be raced by who will be major scholarships to determine and then will be enrolled in colleges by all those who have a lot of money and who probably won't finish colleges, and perhaps on the one hand because they have no predisposition themselves, and on the other hand that colleges won't be able to give them an effective way of studying, an effective study, because because these high school fees will open a wide door for colleges and a lot more students will be enrolled, than that college capacity in any way can support and imply. Why did we propose such an amendment? Because we think it would be normal for the same college groups across Serbia to have equal tuition. So, if we don't happen to say at the Faculty of Law or Medicine in Belgrade, they say -- they have 1,000 dinars less tuition in Nis -- let's also cut another 1,000 dinars, so that in such a small difference we can put as many students as possible, that we get more money, and if we have the conditions to give these students a proper education, we don't care. We wanted to avoid such things. For this reason, it has been proposed that this amendment, which on behalf of the SRS, or our parliamentary group, I have also offered to the Government, or to the Minister as its promoter, and since he has disobeyed that, and I do not know at all what the Government thinks about this amendment, or about any other amendments that have not been accepted, I am offering fellow Members to make themselves known in the day to vote, to accept this amendment. Think about it, look at it, and you'll see that it's really very meaningful and that this would be a good solution for all future students, because we still have to take care of that generation, of future experts, of people who will replace us both in this place and in many of the places where we are today. Today it was heard here on several occasions, by representatives of those who think that this law is God's day and that the best solution seen, as well as university professors and colleges, etc. consulted and that everyone has a very positive opinion in relation to this proposal for a law on higher education. I will have to deny these colleagues and remind you of the conclusions of the Law Faculty Conference of Serbia, which was held on this bill; the conclusions were delivered to the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly, the Minister of Education and Sports, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, the heads of Parliament's groups, the President of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, the Bar of Serbia, the Bar of Vojvodina and the means of public information. At that conference, which took place in early March this year, some 11, 12 conclusions were made – and for the sake of the public and for those colleagues who are trying to convince us that all of us from the SRS, who are yesterday all day long, and today and tonight who knows how long we're going to talk about the bill proposal and that we're trying to convince you to arrange this proposal to be really applicable and meaningful and to, above all, help future students and the current ones – so the first conclusion of this conference is that the bill completely abolishs the autonomy of the university and this status, management, financial and human resources, which they say is totally unacceptable. It is inadmissible that universities with decades of experience and top-notch results in work, which represent the earlier universities, are in a position to re-apply for work and accreditation. This was discussed by colleagues who, on behalf of our parliamentary group, submitted amendments to this part. Such a bill is contrary to the intensity of the Bologna Declaration, which is aimed at building a single European area of education and improving the quality and efficiency of education, which I otherwise fully support. Such a bill is contrary to the experiences of European universities, especially the countries of the environment. The conference notes that the law-making process completely ignores the results of the public debate at law schools and requires that the principle of public and regular legislative procedures be applied when drawing up a new draft of this law. It should not be allowed on behalf of the alleged reform of higher education, on behalf of the state, and contrary to its interests, to destroy very state-level law schools, as vital institutions of higher education. The legal and factual situation in which all law-making universities in the country would find themselves particularly unfavourable would affect the education of legal staff. But he represents the personal foundation of the rule of law. The conference believes that the functions that the bill aims at the university are pre-named and completely inadequate for state universities with a large number of universities in different areas of education of students and employees. The conference believes that the proposed solutions from the law are too general and undefined, leaving too much room for sub-legal regulation and arbitration, which significantly violates the fundamental rules of legal certainty. The conference considers it unacceptable to return moral-political similarities to the university, now under a new form of professional ethics. They also consider it an unacceptable emergency procedure to pass this law, as they say is the first such example in Serbia's legislative practice. The amendments of the SRS parliamentary group are in this sense, and of course we have a lot more amendments and they are more comprehensive, they cover really every area, and so I think it would be good for you who think this is a good law, however, to see how bad it will have consequences and how bad the law is essentially, how bad it will reverse the system of study, how bad it will put students in a bad position, how many finished high school students will remain unlisted because they don't have the means to enroll in college. So call the minister, he may listen to you, since the SRS obviously can't hear and see us, but try to convince him to withdraw this law. He did this law enrolment, I was saying today, at colleges this year, and there's nothing more he can do since neither the National Council nor the Commission will be formed. So there's no reason to rush, at least not because of this school year. There is plenty of time to do a really good legal text, so let's talk seriously about it and adopt it, because what you're probably going to do in the voting day to adopt is a very bad solution and the only consolation and future students, professors and citizens of Serbia who intend to enroll their children in studies is that this government will last too long, that they won't have time to apply this law. But what do we do, we'll change it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18642	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18643	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 61. The proposal for a higher education law speaks of tuition. It is predicted that a higher school institution acquires funding from tuition based on a decision on the level of tuition for students who pay tuition. It is also foreseen that the criteria for determining the level of tuition are established by a general act of the higher education institution. We, in principle debated our position, then further warned of the problem of tuition from several angles. Our view is that the state needs free of charge to allow anyone with enough knowledge to pass the admission exam and to go to free school. It is a priority of the state when it comes to higher education and students who can earn it by their knowledge. Only if the state is unable to provide all these funds and is unable to provide funds from other sources, that only in this case can the tuition paid by students be introduced. Here we warn of two problems that arise in practice. The first problem is the lack of criteria on the level of tuition and we have the consequence that it is very different from a higher education institution to a higher education institution. When it comes closer to comparing, I'm not going to cite colleges, and it's even evident that some people have unwarranted bigger than others who should have it. Ranges are large, from 40 to over 140,000. So the first problem is the lack of clear criteria to determine how tuition can be determined, which criteria must be met. That's how I understand the amendment of the previous MPs, and I think he's going that way. Otherwise, when the principle debate was at the time, warning of the over-emphasizing role of the university received by this bill, I warned that one had not been won, although it should have been, which is the amount of tuition. The amount of tuition was determined, left to colleges, or higher education institutions to determine for themselves, and I think that was something that should have been raised to university level and established unique and clear criteria. Therefore, for these reasons it is necessary to establish clear criteria and as much as possible to level this. The other problem is very high tuition. Students, although they deserve it by their knowledge because of the material state they're in, can't pay. In many cases they are bigger than even in individual private universities. For these reasons, and in the absence of these criteria, with a warning from the authorities that the problem will have to be addressed, we have decided to propose an amendment, that it is also specified by the law that the level of tuition for one school year cannot exceed the amount of two average earnings in the Republic, except for those higher education institutions which, as a result of laboratory and professional exercises, have increased costs. In that case, they should not exceed three average earnings. It may not be an adequate figure, but it is some start where the state is making sure that these scholarships, which should also enable additional funding to higher education institutions to do all the work they need to do, can't be big, huge, can't be paid, and that in particular there has to be order of what's actually being paid, so there's no difference. So, is it two or three, that's something we offer as order in this area. I repeat, it is the obligation of the state to enable, as far as possible, as much power and resources allow it, every student to school, if he has the right knowledge, on the cost of the state at the state universities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18644	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18645	Thank you, Comrade Angelkovic. We made that clear here once. Someone gentler, someone mastered. We've accepted your protocol, and we're not required. So, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, there was an insinuation twenty minutes ago here, a colleague I liked, and apparently he didn't master Marxism, and it's about this amendment. For me, the more important question is whether state universities have the strength to organize themselves and to attract a number of students who go to private and pay scholarships there, and against private ones I have nothing, is the legitimate right to pragmatically take over the market when there is a chance. So, that state universities are engaged to a greater extent and that they try to do the same and, if possible, provide a better material basis. Since it's not a topic and it's not a debate in principle, I wouldn't talk about it any further. In fact, what's tuition? Let's define what tuition is. It's the right, if we're talking about a state university, to study when you're below the line, when, by the criteria that are clear and upfront, you're competing for a particular university, according to the knowledge or level of skill, depending on what it's about, by the number of points or some other criteria, below those that have reached that level. That's clean. So the principle of competition is important. It should be affirmed and should be advocated in the best sense that it still works that way. But on the other hand there are, I think, loose criteria and there's what gives one number of people an index in their hands, and objectively it shouldn't happen. The amendment, explained by Misa Petronijevic, a national MP, on behalf of the SPS, speaks of something else, says that tuition should be limited. He accurately recognized that, on two average earnings, believing that in this way one number of people can only study, with everything I've talked about. We enter into one system, we enter a society where objective money will be a criterion for a lot of things, and what other criteria should be ahead of it won't be possible anymore, because otherwise there's a philosophy that money can be anything or that money can be almost anything, that I'm not too strict in this assessment. It's very important that each of us here help each and every one of us get a chance, and we can give it a chance when someone can pay, among other things, this tuition we're talking about here. I must say, today in Serbia, for the largest number of citizens, and this scholarship we propose is a mental noun, an unattainable, huge financial expenditure. Does that mean it'll come to the so-called. self-production of intelligence and that they will come into a position to study only those whose parents can pay for it, and that some others will never get a chance. These are issues and challenges for every authority, for this Parliament, for all citizens, etc. Of course, you shouldn't expect in one society all to finish college, but our endeavor should go in that direction to the highest number of those who have talent, who have a desire, who have ambition, to allow them to study under adequate conditions compared to those who have a similar quantum of knowledge as they or who have other characteristics like theirs. The big question is, the big issue is what is really being solved by this law and what kind of society we're going to be in in a few years. I'm afraid, if she had laid down the rules of higher education that are in force today or that will be introduced by this or some other law, two-thirds of the people in this room would never have gained academic knowledge, an academic degree, because their parents wouldn't be able to finance their education. I'm saying it's a big subject. I'm not just saying that from the point of view of the SPS political programme, I'm saying that in terms of humanity, in terms of general need and the important principle that an equal chance is the most important criterion, and that is one of the most important criteria of equality in the sense of how equality we experience, because otherwise it will come back to us as a boomerang. We already have in Serbia one trend for children from wealthy families to be educated in other places, sometimes outside the country. I'm not so sure, and I can't talk about it, because I don't have enough data, what's going on out there. They come back here, and these others don't stand a chance. You know how, it's a hell of a long way from a pack to an academic. Who knows how many academics that would never have become if it hadn't had a chance. That's why it's our responsibility here to do everything we can, and we can if we understand and our intentions are good and noble, and I hope that's what we all are, to provide every one of those who want, can and can study in the way that is cheapest and simplest for them. In terms of what I'm talking about, and I'm not talking about the program, I'm only talking about terms. I call once again on everyone who can, Mr. Minister, and all the others, the state universities should do everything they can to take over one number of these students who are going to different places today, and with large scholarships, they're going to school. It's a higher level of guarantee, in every way, when they do it at the state university than they do at someone else's. We shouldn't be afraid of it, we shouldn't stay away from it, if that's what we want. I know it's not easy. A completely different system has been declared in the country, it's going in a different direction, but sooner or later we'll understand that it has to be once again, however far it looks to someone today. So I ask all MPs to support the amendment that Mr. Misa Petronijevic submitted on behalf of the SPS, which would eventually ease some of what I'm saying here and reduce the fears and fears of children who are now high school kids who are due to become students and someday academic citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18646	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18647	And this amendment as well as the preceding article 61. The bill opens one topic: who, how, when and how much, everything concerns tuition. Let's remember how we came up with that idea of tuition. There used to be regular studies and extraordinary studies. Extraordinary students paid something and financed education in some way, there were only state universities, state colleges and the largest number of people in this country with a degree in college during that period and thus came to know and graduates. The moment the state got into trouble, a few years after those high education SIZs were shut down, as it was a completely different concept and state and society organisations, it went to the budget of the Republic of Serbia. When the state came into trouble that the budget could not provide the necessary funding for our universities and universities, the idea of dividing into those whose education is financed from the budget, as a result of that and a special contract between the university and the state, and those who finance their own education. With the appearance of private universities, we have concluded that the only motive is that people who are involved in education in this property form of education in this way want to secure their existence and earn money, but also the founders of such higher education institutions to earn money. There's no such thing as an exaggeration. The money set them off to go into the work of education. Now we come to this dilemma, do we have the right in some way to influence the level of tuition. We, the National Assembly, the state, can by its regulation influence. I'm sure he can when it comes to state universities and state schools. But it also affects, in another way, the registration plan, by approving the number of students to be accepted, by that famous contract to be concluded and by which state from the budget provides funding for higher education. And then it comes up as an addition to the question of tuition, and now I'm back to all those questions that the higher school institution sets out. Of course, you notice ourselves, therefore, our different view of the bill, because we see the university as an independent higher education institution, so in that sense it is also proposed by our amendment that it determines when it comes to state-level schools, because then we have some right to prescribe these criteria or to determine how they will be prescribed and it is somewhat contained here. But then there's the question of the amount of that tuition per year over something that's going on in society, the cost of living, the average salary, the average profit, because something has to be limited. And I don't agree when it comes to the state college that those who are self-financed are those who haven't crossed the line, but are below the line, are not talented and so forth. And a student, regardless of his age, is a student, and in the educational process he is always a student. The election is as a student, but the voter, when driving a car, is also a minor, bears some responsibility, but while he is in college he is a student and he learns. In that relationship he must be. The question of tuition in some way when it comes to public schools needs to be resolved. But can we, by this law, handle this in a unique way, given that private schools exist? Please, some private schools were created to launder large amounts of money and to make some money. And of course that's where the other principles apply in the exam, because rightly then the parent of a private university student says that my son hasn't crossed over to next year, and I've given the money, I'm asking for a favor, I've paid you, and of course that's going to be a different criterion. But there's a deviation in the state college. They always tend to exceed the quotas that the ministry has set, given the budget and the state's ability, so they ask for agreement to go too far with the number of self-financing to provide funds, so, of course, October, November, the colleges are quite full of money, especially those that attract great attention and great interest and receive a large number of students, because a large number of students in the budget regime also means the possibility that a large number of students are self-financed. Who needs to determine the tuition and based on what criteria? It's a question that Mrs. Radeta tried to solve with the amendment she suggested to Article 61 so it wouldn't happen, and it could happen, that they were yelling privately, so they were yelling and stately. And what everyone swore was that the aim of this law was to ensure the quality of teaching, the quality of study and, of course, the high quality of acquired education of those who completed colleges according to these points, years and these levels of study up to the highest level of calling. So, an attempt to help, not endangering those private ones, as you might have noticed, because probably at some point, and that's the university conference, there's a need for these criteria to sort of agree so that there's no big difference. I'm returning you to that guarantee-related member again, because it's possible that if a private college is shut down, that that bank guarantee is activated, so that students who were cut off in education can continue at another higher education facility. Then the question opens, and why is it that in a state-run higher education institution, or where the state organized it, where the tuition was incomparably less than the private university tuition, the university assumes the state's obligation to complete what was messed up by the private college. So the question of tuition is not just how much will it cost to study parents, how much is it going to cost students, how much will teachers earn, how much is the doctorate going to take from college, and there's a rectorate again, and it's wondering, how many private university founders are going to make. At private university, you have no autonomy or academic freedom. That's our practice. What academic freedom these people have at private universities, please explain to me. The freedom of scientific and research work, so they realised their freedom at the state university, so just for money or because they retired, so they can't anymore, go to Bogoljub Karic and hand over the budget for any kind of money. What quality is that? What are we talking about? You know what, the economy market in Serbia is increasingly like a cartoon than some political commitment that has its own seriousness. See for yourself what's going on with those colleges, and you'll understand. This is the torment of NGOs, apparently with the desire to destroy the state higher education, all under the auspices of Bologna and the lack of funds in the budget. That's what we need to talk about. It's gotta be spoken out loud. Better now than in a few months or a few years, as foreseen here, when it starts with the application of this law, it comes across huge walls that can't be skipped, they can't be mastered, they start from the level of education, from professional profiles, expertise, and all the way to diploma, nostrification, and so on. And then the question arises whether it means something in terms of further study abroad, employment abroad or employment in our country. One is law, one is practice, and what is important at this point is our warning that these standards, which are mentioned in this bill, cannot achieve the objectives set. I can't. We're expressing serious criticism. We present the argument and background of why what is proposed and immediately indicate why a member is wrong. Why isn't it good? You from most people understand whatever you want, but you have a year-and-a-half experience, all we've shown from this pay phone is that there's going to be a problem in practice, in law enforcement, it's happened. Whether in a month or two, in three. No wonder, every three months, the laws you've passed before changed. Changes change, previous changes to the amended law. Well, I guess this congregation isn't just dealing with 20 laws of the entire term. Take this, look at you. Get rid of these NGOs and these interesting lobbies. Everyone enters this area because they recognize themselves. Now, that is the purpose of this amendment, to sort of regulate these criteria, so that university autonomy is not understood as free-declaration of tuition at the request of the rector.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18648	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia, MP Nemanja Sarovic, and joint MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic submitted to the 62nd amendment. The proposing representative and the Education Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go. The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18649	Let me tell you right now that the amendment is very delicate. I've hesitated enough whether to stand him at all. In the first version, he was not among my amendments, but when I consulted some colleagues, I decided to write a amendment like this. And here's the thing. I suggest adding a new position after Article 5, which reads: "Teachers from state higher education institutions cannot work on private higher education institutions". This is going to echo positively and negatively at the university. Most professors will welcome this. They're the ones who do science all the time, the scientific underage, the research, who work with students and do nothing part-time, especially at private universities. One smaller part will be against this amendment. I know cases where someone teaches at five private colleges. When allowed, private colleges have one very cheap workforce, give a little bit of fee, and don't pay any contributions for those people who hire. So private colleges have great benefits, and they do not try to provide themselves with a permanent teacher’s staff. The minister drew my attention when we first and second time on the Committee, so that perhaps the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs would oppose this. However, I decided not to withdraw the amendment, but to leave it to you to finally decide whether it will enter the law or not. I leave it to you, and if after a college or a group of people ask to examine the constitutionality of this, and if the Constitutional Court says it's unconstitutional, then please. But for now, I'm staying on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18650	I thank you, Professor, for your support of the SPS for this amendment, and so it should be in health care. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( ) Ambassador Vojislav Milajic has submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18651	With this amendment, we want to avoid the classification of independent, independent or dependent educational institutions. We propose not to leave the right to an educational and higher education institution, the Academy of Professional Studies at the University to decide on the choice of calling needed by a sub-boarding educational institution because it can abuse its right. Let's just say that sometimes he wants the college to be singled out on this proposal again, that there are three sections, three study groups, and that's why he needs a specific calling, and there's a standard of how many titles he needs to have, 50%, and that's being changed, and we're going to see what you're going to adopt. It's necessary, for example. a lecturer of practical work on a phantom or something, and if he doesn't allow it, for some reason, a university, doesn't fit into strategic projects of the university, in the description of his tasks, that institution lower subsidized can seal the door, it can't work. Therefore, it is enough to say that if a higher education institution wants to register its programme, to accredit it, to show it, that there is a fit, space, technical conditions, it can herself suggest what calling is needed, because it has a chance of saying yes, but you want to call it free when your whole program fails. Why would she have to talk to the university, unless it's a matter of very centralised financial control, which is really devastating by the fate of the university, and we're completely on the basis of a suspicion that the BU was doing for three months or a year before he came out with this. It is not necessary to touch that part of financial independence and a part that can organisationally and functionally hinder the work of an independent higher education institution that is part of the university. It's a completely different story if he wants to give an independent institution consent to the calling, if it's already become independent within the university, which is not even regulated yet. If it becomes independent within the university, all calls go back to the university and there is a misunderstanding. What happens when one college is left alone, and yet it's partly under the hat of the university. It's not strictly solved, so that's for the record. When he became his own boss, then we don't even have a normative that he would further regulate his election, but he would have had to do it in a certain way again to wonder what the election would be called, and then it would be the only calling when you were independent if you hadn't verified them at the Academy of Professional Studies, or at the university. The law has quite vagueness, such unspeakable places, and this is one trendy intention, tended to be designed in this sense to defuse university advancement, maybe someone in something slows down, which is neither a decentralised mode of work, nor a question that can be considered an issue in the functioning of higher education institutions. And we don't see, if they show the need for a specific calling, which isn't in the register, and yesterday we suggested changes in these callings, there's a specific need because Europe is asking you and you've accepted it - the change of the law, that you introduce a lot of new callings. There is an intention to expand the list of titles, to bring a whole new list of titles to the national council. Therefore, for the new callings of new programmes, for new programmes new lecturers and what is the problem then, that whoever conducts the study programme will and suggest that someone who performs it will, in accordance with the existing legal norms for individual titles, be called. Is there gonna be no need to ask for a request, because as soon as he asks, he can already be like this and make that decision. So when everything is arranged by professional titles and a list of titles, then an ad hoc will choose who is available to him and there should not be a limit on institutions that are independent and who are not independent, to depend on someone, because then it can pass the school year, so the silence of the administration, so it does not enroll in years etc. That's all I'm saying is practical problems that can be very serious on the ground. Someone to get the money, sign up, so maybe one call can't make the program work, so maybe he has to call a co-worker from another college, maybe it's a way to get to the gig. A thousand of these reasons can be when you limit something unnecessary and we want this intervention to just throw out one word. I don't think an amendment to the spirit of the law is going to spoil, it won't bother him, keep it "independent" in one single place and show that you accept the amendments to the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18652	I thank Mr. Poscurica. Is anyone else answering for the amendment word? (No) Parliamentarian Milan Veselinovic submitted to the 64th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18653	As a result of successful high-average studies, this estimate is a monetary expression of some value. People stay in college, continue postgraduate studies, defend doctoral dissertation and get elected to certain calls. All of this should be based, first of all, on the average rating of the study. With this amendment, we ask that Article 64 paragraph 1 be changed, it is a minor change, so that the attitude would read: "In calling teachers can be selected a person who completed the basic studies with a total average score of at least 8 and who has an appropriate professional, academic, or scientific name and ability to study." Compared to what the government has suggested, the difference is that we have defined the average score. Sometimes those grades were otherwise defined. In one period, I think it was even 8.5. But the average rating of the study is probably one of the key evidence that points to the candidate’s ability to engage in educational activity, or to be a teacher at a higher education facility. I'm surprised that's not accepted, because in practice we have a slightly different situation. I'll give you some specific examples. You've got Major General Zoran Stankovic, he's all out alive, he's finished with 6.26 and thanks to the deals and in another way came into a situation to allegedly show some courage, cleared up these others, and he's now calling the doctor, as far as I can tell. We have other examples like this where simply people, without some particular average, without some particular ability, without some particular eloquence, have made a university career, have become even regular professors. I can understand that someone becomes an academic in the fields of art, so it can be a Kalemar, etc., but his artistic work has its weight. They're completely different criteria. But here, who has an average of 8, that's the first predisposition that he can go to the master's office, according to dissertation, with a tendency to stay in college later and be a teacher in the proper calling. The question is, what are the grades if anyone can be a teacher with 6,26 or 6,01, although it's not even theoretically possible that average? This is in line with the definition that work is valued, that knowledge is valued. I see nothing bad for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, for the legislator of this law to accept this amendment, because the teaching staff should be recruited from the ranks of the most successful students of the university, because the question is why someone was successful, which is his satisfaction in insisting on a high average, to gain an adequate level of knowledge and to compete with this level of knowledge on the most responsible jobs in the area. I'm surprised why it wasn't accepted, but before something like that existed or existed in almost all our laws that regulate higher education.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18654	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Professor Simonovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18655	If someone starts making university careers, from intern assistants and beyond, we ask him to have an average score of at least 8. But it would be very funny to write a report on someone to be a regular professor, to evaluate his scientific work and contribution to science and to say that he graduated from college with an average score of 8. That would be really funny. Most of the time, these people finished high-level colleges. I think there's only one case I know that someone became a doctor and that during his studies he had a score less than eight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18656	Yeah, and some Einstein might show up. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Krasic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18657	I'm trying to do it again just by reading what's written in the bill. I would ask you to pay attention to Article 30(4), which Mr. Poscurica spoke of this morning. It reads: "Extremely, a doctorate of science can acquire a face with completed studies of medicine and completed specialization, based on a defensive dissertation based on works published in the world's top magazines." It is not required here that he has previously completed these master studies, but that someone has given him permission to defend his doctoral dissertation, and this approval is probably based on the fact that this primarius published a large number of works in world-renowned scientific journals and, as you can see, there is no talk about any average. The average is not taken into account at all, so it is installed by the very text of the law exactly what it is necessary to adopt the amendment, so that something is not supposed to happen. That's what was assumed, so for 14 years he defended the doctoral dissertation of Slobodan Beljanski, he took advantage of the opportunity to change three higher education laws, so when his friends came to the Faculty of Law, and it didn't end, the man ended up and it's all fine, as they say. So, nothing is bad if this condition stands for the choice of teachers, so as soon as it is possible for someone to graduate from higher education and to obtain a doctorate without an average, but not in the teaching process, they will have the proper, or mastered that third degree of higher education, with which they can achieve some benefit in an institute, an economic organization, a state institution, but they will not be in the educational process as a teacher, because they do not meet the conditions, during the study did not have an average greater than 8. It's this lump that needs to be put on, which would allow us to always have the best in the teaching process in higher education. Why am I saying this? Because there are quite a lot of, and now there are extraordinary and regular professors who, at some point about 15, 18 years ago, used the opportunity to master after college, or after mastering in Serbia, in some of these countries abroad defences allegedly dissertation, but it's not academic but professional, so here shows are academic and here today are regular teachers, with an obvious vacuum in a professional career. That's why we need to put this in, this doesn't hurt, a team before this is understood, and that's the practice, but we shouldn't allow exceptions to make a new rule. I listed several exceptions, Zoran Stankovic, and there are more. (Velimir Simonovic, from the scene: completely wrong. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18658	Here you go, Mr. Professor, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18659	You don't seem to know, colleague Krasic, that when someone doctorates abroad, a degree is nostration. The expert nostrification commission is set up, so if his doctoral degree is weak there, it will not be nosetristed and he cannot apply for a call. I know you can get low-level doctoral degrees there. A concrete example: my student who had my master's degree, he was a doctor at a university in England. But that college, even though it's been there for 20 years, has no right to the queen's seal on the PhDs. He came to Belgrade and said this - I graduated here so I want to doctor and, knowing that this doctoral degree is not equivalent to our diploma, he couldn't stand it for nostrification. In the end, let me quote again what I said you say a lot. Like all of you sitting here and everyone else, I've read a lot of things in my life, and I've singled out four things as the smartest thing I've ever read. One of these is the motto that took the famous Austrian philosopher Witgenstein for one of his books: "What you can't say for a while is better and doesn't speak for it."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18660	Replica, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18661	I never told MP Velimir Simonovic that he talks a lot or talks a little. I never meant to say that he should answer or that he shouldn't answer. I realize your age is in need of reproving me and I'm not angry, but there's no need for you to be nervous. I'm just avoiding to mention the names and last names of those very individuals who have abused the nostrification and become regular professors. Just for one insinuation to recognize this man, I have no intention of mentioning him because he is no longer in political life, for a time there was our consul in Germany. He is now with a doctorate, those from Nis already know it, it's a long-ending affair, he has abused the doctorate of some vocational studies, presented it, so he was a highly respected professor at the Faculty of Engineering in Nis, now he's a regular professor, and you see he's got a hole in a hole or a hole in his professional university career. You know, I have no intention of twisting facts, and when I quote concrete examples, I try to be very precise, perhaps even ensnared. Please, we have only asked this amendment to, as another condition, that someone might be a teacher, in addition to calling, abilities, etc. be prescribed a minimum average of eight. That's what happened before in our regulations. Why? This way we don't stop anyone from getting to level three education, becoming a doctor, becoming a magistrate, a specialist. No, we're just talking about the educational process, the status of teachers in higher education. There's no interference. You say - it's beneath the honor that someone in the report is standing there at the university had an average, so to indicate some number below eight. I've given you specific examples that it's weirded out in some of the reports to mention, and some of them are mentioned, so it's not eight, it's 6.26. You're telling me now there's no need. There are needs, because she needs to be a teacher, because they need to be the best from universities and college teachers, not 6.26, so you have those in pathology right here in Belgrade. The question is whether or not they finished colleges, but they appear to be great experts to prove that the third person fired at the barracks and did the professor's work. Look at their average. I'm just talking about the possibility of participating in education in the status of teachers, we're not holding back the possibility of getting a master's or doctoral title.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18662	Otherwise, you have the right to advocate your amendment, too, has the right to challenge Professor Simonovic, and the Assembly will decide. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18663	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thanks to one of the Rules of Procedures brought by the majority in this House, you can see how many MPs are going to take part in the debate tonight on a very important law, on the Law on Higher Education. It's almost five years since the DOS came to power. You remember that DOS has promised to implement a reform of higher education and education after an emergency procedure, and it has been so long and there is a law on the agenda that needs to regulate higher education in our country. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted this amendment to Article 65 and suggested that the provision be deleted in point 2. Instead of what is stated in the proposal, it should read: "The Faculty, or other higher education institution, selects all teachers". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, who better to make a choice than what's going to happen directly to the university? I'm not sure the university's rector will be able to do this, who is now authorized by the promoter to choose teachers at colleges and higher education schools, rather than do it directly to the university. The Faculty's collective and university professors know best who studied at the university, how many years and, especially what Zoran Krasic said, with which he passed a final, or graduate exam at a certain university. We will have a situation that we will grow into a centralised way of choosing teachers in colleges, because that privilege will be given and will be given by the university, but not by the university. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is not an orderly relationship, in a precise and true way, between state and brewing colleges. You can't see here, it's shown in the discussions, what's gonna happen to those who teach in private school, teach in the state college. Will it be the same criterion? Are the same motives? It won't be the same motive and it won't be the same criteria. That's why this relationship isn't well arranged, who can teach at the state college, and then can teach at a private college? It's gonna turn into a gig, and we're gonna have, like I said, two criteria for grading and grading students. What I wanted to point out in particular is to take a little care of the content of the classes that students need to study at colleges. We have cases in practice today that some scientific workers and teachers are not trying to find out whether a good textbook, summed up, clear, understood, write, but are trying to write a book on hundreds and thousands of pages, and all of this is about fee. If it is a reform, then the reform must be done urgently and in this area and the reform must be achieved. The SRS is for the choice of teachers to carry out the university, and Mr. Prof. Dr. Poscurica, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and other SRS MPs pointed to all the failures of this law and its lack of it, as well as Mr. Momir Markovic, Penezic and others. I must say that they made a great contribution and pointed out that this area should be arranged in a better way, that this law was valid he would be on the agenda in May and the minister would not withdraw it. The minister saw that the political climate was very unstable and he realized that the law would not pass at that time, but also today, when this bill is in front of lawmakers at this meeting, it certainly must be given more attention. And that's why I'm saying that the Rules of Procedure made it impossible for this House to pay so much attention that there was no interest in passing a better law. Some MPs do not make so many contributions to help clear our education system at a high level. That is why I propose to Parliament to adopt this amendment, because it will in any case improve the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18664	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18665	Unfortunately, the amendment only included the position of Article 2 65. We've probably missed the touch of attitude 1. You see, in the provisions on the content of the study programme and in the provisions on the scope of the study, you talk about the subject matter, and in Article 65(1), you point out that a higher education institution is calling a competition for the establishment of a working relationship and obtaining the appointment of teachers for the narrow area. That's some inaccuracy. So far, it's always been a matter of record, but, well, that's why you're going to have headaches in practice. What's the point of our amendment, where we're asking for a change in attitude 2, is that college be an independent higher education institution, and on that basis, like all other high school independent institutions, make a choice in calling teachers. It's been with us for a long time. And according to existing rules of choice and calling is in the jurisdiction of the university, the procedure is known, the decision of the managing authority, the Commission, the competition, the candidates report depending on what is required, whether in calling an extraordinary or regular professor, the candidates compete, provide evidence that they meet the requirements, the commission makes a report. In one period, if it is for a regular professor, prior to the practical establishment of a working relationship it was necessary to agree with the Ministry of Higher Education. There may be different variations on the subject, since before the 1998 law, we had a hyperproduction of the calling of a regular professor, where we had teachers without a published textbook, no work, no everything. We even had plagiarizers. Now it doesn't change anything essentially in that rotten sense, but colleges like that educational and scientific base are losing that right, and that right goes to university. Your position of the 2nd member reads: "The university chooses the adoption of teachers, on the proposal of the university, or other higher education units, and the Academy of Professional Studies for Teachers etc." So, the essence of this amendment is that we're asking the university to be an independent higher education institution and that all these other rights come from that status. One of these rights is the establishment of a working relationship and choice in the appropriate calling. It's not contrary to our practice. Integrated and disintegrated, united and divided, concentrated and deconcentrated, centralized and non-centralised, anything to take as a flossule to justify why you represent the views of this bill, and the university will in some way have a teaching-scienceal higher, so the commission, and the university is just someone who allegedly needs to stamp, or another reason that can be used, is that some college will have an independent legal status if there are three study programs, etc. It all falls into the water. Why is he falling into the water? For one simple reason, because, in the status sense, higher education institutions, no matter who their founder is and no matter what capital they are established, equal and equal before the law. You are aware of the fact that in this way the state college and what the embryo is suppressing is developing a rectorate, which will decide on progress, which will stop progress. Smile, but you'll see what colleges tell you when this bill passes. You will begin your persecution again, but in another way. Now, the university, the principalate in terms of the teaching council, the council, it doesn't matter which authority, decides on the establishment of a working relationship, on the advancement, on the titles. Let me see this young scientist from the university who's going to stand up to the dean, the rector or anyone on any basis, and, among other things, on some political basis, how he's going to make progress and how he's going to get a call. Not to mention that it can be stopped systematically. We don't have needs, we have two, we don't need a third teacher, we have one, we don't need another. It was a few years ago, which is worth it, it went down, and so on. Make sure you don't make things worse at university this way. I warn you in advance. I'm not worried that someone doesn't like my words. I've really been operated on this for a long time. I'm glad sometimes when someone doesn't like what I'm saying. Why? So far, time has turned out to be a denial of my opponents. I can't quote you now, because of the time I've warned you all about. You didn't accept it, but after two months in the hallway, you were right. Make sure this happens, too. This law is exactly what I tried to put you in danger today. It's only going to happen because you're exclusive, because you've been tasked with having to go through it. As anyone has satisfied some of his interest to pass, that's another topic. You'll hear from college and university a lot more criticism than the ones we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18666	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) In the same text, MPs Velimir Simonovic and Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the title above members of the 67th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18667	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the title and article 67, with a quite large text explanation, given that this is a calling, which is predicted through the title - Professor Emeritus and through a description of what this professor is going to do, in Article 67, a brand new category in our higher education, or so it is not called and in this way, with this name is now being established. When you open "Vujaklia", I don't know which side it stands on, and you can see from this explanation and from the attached description of that professor, who that person is. So whoever served the working century, who did something, did something, etc., "Vujaklia" continues to explain it. However, as regards the very occasion and the fact that this has not been in practice in Serbian higher education, the motive is now what she was dealing with, first of all, the SRS parliamentary group, and not this descriptive part, in fact, that they are teachers who are retired, for the second and third degrees of academic calling. It was very important for us to go from what was the proposaler's motive to establish the calling of Professor Emeritus. They are professors such as Mr. Prof. Dr. Simonović, such as many prominent members of the SRS who are not in this parliamentary assembly, and teachers are retired, who have given, each in their profession, a selfless contribution to science. Now the question arises, with this possibility, and above all we know that it is already Article 78, which you will see later, there could only be a change in individual attitudes, but a defined appointment of a professor in retirement, that is, a deadline for them to engage, what should have been suggested by the promoter to establish this new academic title, that is to say, by Article 67, that is to say, when there is no age limit here at all. Thank God there are also those professors in retirement, and I want them all to have good health and long life, as well as any of you, who are waiting for the late and deepest age, but are they people who are at that age, who think they can do this job, and who will hire them and who will have more motive to hire them? We think, as with the previous member, when Mr Zoran Krasic spoke, that it is, above all, a good opportunity for private universities, specifically for the University of the Karic Brothers. How will Bogoljub Karic in this new relationship, according to the members of the law, as the proponent predicted, achieve a minimum, or fund with teachers from certain professions, if he does not hire teachers who are retired for the second and third degrees of academic calling? Then the question arises which will be the price of Karic and his similar private universities to acquire the title of master, doctor of science and who are all these future masters and doctors of science who will rush, for various reasons, various connections, which, by direct political influence, are other influences in Karic to demand this calling from these professors. It's undeniable, you know what a visiting professor is, and it's beautifully explained in Article 66, we didn't even tolerate the amendment, and it's unnecessary to talk about it, it's been given precisely here, but here we have a big observation and a percentage. So no age limit has been defined for emeritus professors, and a percentage of three percent of the total number of teachers at the university has been set. All of this is reason enough, and a number of other examples that will appear in practice and will negatively echo, and above all because of these private universities, such as the University of the Karic Brothers and similar to him, for the engagement of these professors who, frankly, have absolute right. By restricting them from doing their job and helping students to obtain academic calling, the law does not limit them as long as they consider it, but it is not defined until any time, nor what are all the possibilities. Simply, this brand-new category, and with the really great effort of our authorised representative, Professor Poscurica and all of us, and me as a promoter, we in practice in the environment couldn't find, even in these laws from countries in the environment, that there was this kind of established category, even though we were trying to see where it all came from. Probably in some Western countries. We believe that because of what the professor in retirement is already defined in article 78 and in article 66, what is the role of the visiting professor, it is not necessary for this category to exist in the law. That is why I call on the MPs to accept in the voting day this amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18668	Mr. Simonovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18669	Here's the thing. This calling appears most often in America, and in Europe more rarely; perhaps, it probably does. It's an honorary calling that doesn't mean much but one honor to a regular professor who retired and contributed to the development of science, so it's an honor to him. If it was going to leave this at all, it was only a first attitude, and this second one, it's about the possibility that he might still be able to do something, it's regulated in Article 78, especially in my amendment to that article that fully regulates it. I'll tell you right now, I won't be unhappy if this amendment isn't adopted, away from that, but I don't think there's any need. Because for a retired professor, it's here in article 68, all regulated as to their involvement and post-retirement. Also, I have a comment on this, it's not convenient to put percentages – 3%. What if there are more professors to be declared emeritus professors and why only those who will be retired when they enter into this law, why can't someone be declared an emeritus professor who is already retired, so that we all better accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18670	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The title above Articles 69 and 69 of the amendment was submitted by the Education Committee. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markaovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 70 and Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18671	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will explain this amendment very briefly. I see no reason why the amendment would not be adopted in the voting day. The title above article 70 says - Call for associates; I ask on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that the title above the 70th be the Call of Associates in Continuance. Because Article 70 says, "The co-worker's calling is: an associate in teaching and an assistant. The call of co-workers in teaching under foreign language study programmes is: a lecturer and a senior lecturer. "The amendment requires that Article 70's Article 1's position: "The call of co-workers in the follow-up is: assistant - intern and assistant, lecturer and senior lecturer". In this way, Section 3 would become Item 2, and Section 4 would become Item 3, and Section 2 would be deleted. I think in voting day, your conscience will work, so you will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18672	We're moving on to the next member. The title above article 71 and article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18673	The 71st member regulates the question of how to choose, which are the conditions for the election, as the proposer called it, the Co-operationian continues. Otherwise, it is a calling that so far has existed, but under the name assistant intern and I don't see why the proposer has made some termological changes, completely unnecessary, because the name assistant intern is domestic, famous, and the name itself really doesn't bother, even though the law from the foundation changes. So other than this unnecessary terminology, there's something else that's been disputed. The conditions necessary to obtain this title in the current law are that the assistant trainee has completed first-degree studies with an average score of at least eight. In the proposal for this law, it is a condition to select the person who enrolled in the master's studies in the follow-up. But what's most controversial is that the contract is signed for one year, so it can be extended by another year. This means that an unnecessary and bad rush to scientific youth is being introduced and that in a short time they have to finish master's studies, enroll doctoral studies, and only then can they get the next call, calling an assistant. This will lead to a deterioration in the atmosphere at the university, something that is called social Darwinism, or an unfavourable struggle for survival at the university, because this young man, who, for some formal reasons, will not have completed his master's degree in doctoral studies, and has all the other conditions, above all talent, knowledge, skill, ability, gift, will have to come out of this process, so we think you should respect this amendment that absolutely does not question even what you imagined this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18674	Thank you. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18675	So that I don't report back, I'm going to talk about Article 71 and Article 72 right now because it's about the same thing. It finally mentions that famous average score of eight, and even an assistant predicts that he finished his master's degree. We can't have someone enrolling in the last law if they didn't have a score of at least eight in the course of their studies. So it's a priori filled out, because he could only enroll in master's studies with an average of eight during regular studies. Please, who's interested in paying attention, I won't be talking about these two amendments for long. Instead of being a co-worker for just a year, so for another year, I suggest two plus two, and I suggest four plus four as an assistant. Because you give him a small salary, there's no security, you can tell him after a year: thank you very much, goodbye, we don't need you anymore. And he needs to enroll in doctoral studies, pass the exam and perfect himself; and a small salary and yet insecure in that working relationship. That's why I'm proposing to an associate for two plus two years and an assistant for four plus four years. I think if this stays like this in the law, it's going to be quite a threat to the creation of scientific rejuvenation at the university, and that's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18676	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 71st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 71st amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 72nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Professor Simonovic just explained this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. There's a word from the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18677	It's again one of the evidence of the audit that you've unnecessarily made, to change something a little bit, but what you've called an associate in the class, or an assistant, an assistant intern, we can argue about it and not argue about what you're going to call it, but it's important what you give him. You see, in the previous amendment, you gave a co-worker a short time and opportunity to enroll master's studies or specialization. We're going back to the famous, specializing, published works, you're going to be a doctor. Now, that's where you're already preparing the ground to introduce into this medical profession a special level, a special privilege compared to other callings, and we really don't need to do that. We should not be unfair to other directions and professional titles. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 72(1) refers to the calling of assistants. We've kept in some way old solutions, which we think are close to university practice, and we're familiar with the whole thing, that it's been working that way for decades, but we haven't even given it so long that it's stalled and the assistive calling goes on all the time. We didn't even set such high standards as you. The doctoral studies enrolled, and there are completed master's studies and, by logic, things signed up doctorate, doctoral studies, that's what we can accept and we've defined closer conditions. Why? Because integrated studies provide for the possibility that if it ends six years, it comes out with the calling of a master of medical science. Whether it will be a master, what will it turn out to be, or it will be a graduate study and a second term, such as a solution in Croatian law, as it stands in the integral text. If you were to come out as a magistrate, it means we would have a huge burden on colleges with arriving students on average above eight as a general condition that would compete in calling assistants. Many advocates of this bill said it was good. That we will have a selection and be able to choose more carefully. All that would be good if we were financially powerful. I'm talking about state universities, which could finance such a huge nest. Because by the time this law comes into force, it will be two years for different norms and three or six months, and those who have enrolled master's studies will end them and will be able to legally apply to that calling. The average above eight is easy to achieve with both knowledge and other opportunities to reach high scores. So, if that's the way college, or university, as the owner of all the money will say -- stop, you have a lot of candidates enrolled, you have a lot of medians from the medical profession, and what are we going to do with mathematicians, physicists and other colleges in the university, so you're all eating up to now, and we're going to hire 20 assistants and you're going to be the one who's the best. We're unnecessarily creating a wide base for entanglement first of all of these assistants of interns or co-workers in the class, and for God's sakes later and assistants, we'll be able to choose from them. What they're going to do and help we've seen in an explanation, he says -- it'll be easier to teach. Well, that's what someone has to pay for. The colleges don't have a chance to pay, here's a read on what Turajlićka wrote to the previous minister, they don't have the money to pay for water, not to pay 10-15 assistants, so they'll share a job, so some criteria will be made by someone who observes them from above, like Orwell, who one of our colleagues said, to decide who's going to be the best who's going to be the best to extend a certain, usually shorter deadline, status in calling an assistant, or specifically an assistant, and both members are connected because they're really very interesting. We think that the person who got the status of calling an assistant is enough provovova for four years, plus two more, because doctoral studies last four years, or three, as defined, so that we could get a doctor's degree in time and get a doctor's degree, and then move on to further academic titles. By expanding the base from which everyone will have a chance to come acts demagogue in a certain sense. It's not impossible or bad, but it needs someone to finance it. How's college gonna cover all these assistants? Watch out, on the subject. We don't have like the Russians have divided clinical and preclinical cases, so a special group, and especially funding. We have medical studies like this, they are at the heart of interest because they are in a certain way privileged, that you receive an assistant as soon as she finishes, with the call of the magistrate, to a particular clinical or preclinical branch. So you're going to biochemistry five, on anatomy three, on clinical subjects 25, and you don't need it. He's your university supervisor. He's wondering about the choice. Not just a teacher. I'm sorry, you want three other professors and you've chosen 35 assistants. What to say to the college dean. How's it going? They have an average of eight, I have to take them in, they're masters, they're competing. And you didn't define closer conditions. We've also given you this possibility of an amendment to take in addition to the average score of the class of objects or some other closer condition to relieve the great inflow of magistrates. I'm talking about an integral legal text in which he's called a magistrate after six years of study. That's what they're called. Integrated studies. Is he going to be called a master, so he's going to have another calling, that's something else. If walking has changed something during these days, it's quite different, but especially assistants for clinical cases, it's really enough for them this time to realize these four plus two years, and for preclinicals and not to speak. It's a lot easier for them. They have much more time because they deal with doctoral thesis with the problem they're studying in preclinical cases. Biochemistry, physiology, it's transport processes, something that makes them and because of their interest, and they take them to these very preclinical objects, and they're made easier by that job. When you put all this on one side, the medical profession, I know the problem, it's similar to dentistry, pharmacies, and when you look at other directions and educational fields on the other side, then you'll see that it's quite an imbalance. In particular, it will be expressed where the university also contains the schools of medical professions, as a rule, are a university where many students are enrolled, and the best students, with the highest average, are expected to go to more than eight. It's an alternative, but now it's hard to talk about. And then the criteria rise to a lot more because there's going to be a lot of them with an eight, which in the absence of other criteria, they're going to say, "Here you go, I'm competing." And college doesn't have a mechanism to say - I don't need you, I need you. And there are no additional criteria of broader definition, and we've given some idea and guidance that in this way we're limiting that rush and that it's illegal, that no one feels damaged, that in the beginning they know whether or not they can compete and that there's a certain calling, and not that there's a broad base, so within three years, that we're going to choose who we're going to extend the status and who we're not. Especially when he becomes an assistant, which would be very complicated and unfair, if someone were eventually eliminated from the race, because someone would just be shown as the ultimate need to call teachers, doctor, and then to have our assistants as too many associates. During that time, while those assistants are associates on preclinical subjects, people are wasting time to specialize. They are all hoping that one day they will be elected, re-elected, and elected as assistants. It's a waste of valuable time, and you did cut too long specializations for a year, but it won't be anything. Probably the health minister will say it's out of the question, you'll never get a specialist in a year. There was supposed to be an exception here, which I am against, but they're going to be in a certain way, no matter how easy it is for them to get to the position of assistants or assistant associates, they're going to be condemned. Some of them who do not finally go to the teacher's call will be condemned in their advancement, professional training, the entry of specialization and who knows what else and have the basis to be considered a potentially compromised proposed legal solution that opens a wide front of the show. And then, in the end, he still has to limit himself in accordance with the requirements required by the university, because the university is under the university, and then he'll say, "I'm sorry, you can't get medical staff anymore, you've had enough." About the point of our intervention comes down to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18678	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18679	Again, of course, this stand-alone, nothing more. We're erasing this prerogative of someone else deciding that the university itself decides whether to let their teacher start a working relationship somewhere will have good control. This mechanism that we stand for is, in fact, not only proof of one university's independence in deciding this kind, but simply not to create mechanisms to stop migration, internal migration, that someone wants to leave and that it will eventually have enough. The university has other opportunities to control the work of the university, as the matter is set up, so it will be able to control and, of course, through control and ways of exercising income rights, pension and other rights that it achieves. That's why we thought we should simply eliminate this as an act of an independent higher education institution, put only a higher education facility, so that we don't turn it into some university jurisdiction, that it now decides where a college professor will be visiting, when the university knows its needs best. He can let his chemist, the only physicist or one of the two go to work both in Nis and Novi Sad, if it's necessary to work on his college enough. And in the end, and if they don't let him go, he can figure out a decision to go there to work and leave the missing parent college, the parent institution, the parent academy, and of course, that would mean the poor quality of teaching. If it is sometimes so easy to allow, there will be no time to hang out with students, to fill their time and eventually to get benefits for passing the final final exam with a score, because it will be occupied by the theatrics. Different possibilities may exist - you can go to the fund of that and that. It is likely that the general act will regulate it, but the general act from the institution to the institution gives consent to the university. How do you work when it comes to private college? Why won't Karic University now give consent to any desire by teachers to host? Why won't he make a deal with another college? Of course, it is not required that these staff go back from the private college to the state to teach, but to personally make different communications, so it is better to leave, to do colleges, because this kind of direct control will no longer be in private colleges. Absolutely doesn't mean anything. He can formally approve Karic's university to any Karic University that he can go to a teacher here or there to teach, but that doesn't have that weight that the promoter probably wanted to provide, some kind of security, proposing it for universities and universities whose founder is the Republic. On condition, there may be some logic there, but when you pass it on, and you have to treat them equally to private universities what they won't give, what anyone can say from a university college, a rector's college, to tell Karic or any other owner on his behalf or any other name, of course they'll say he has to go. It doesn't mean anything that's a respectable level of university when one private owner of everything, when he's a private man, he can decide how he wants to, to share his notices with everyone, not to pay them. It would simply again be an inequality between those in the state sector and those in the private sector. Therefore, when there is truly no real independence, we should delete the word "self-sufficient" and not question our party concept, which we advocate that "self-sufficient" is not a preferential right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18680	I thank Mr. Poscurica. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 78 and Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 78 and 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18681	This amendment is extremely important. He solves a big question at universities and don't blame me if I spend a few minutes more than my usual practice. I'd like to draw your attention to the correction that's this morning's division because some printing errors have been subdued in the amendment. What's this about? It says here in the law: "The teacher stops working at the end of the school year in which he turned 65 years old. "And I've changed this further. It's enough to say just that, because it's gotta be at least 15 years of internships. However, against the second position, it says nicely: "The teacher of Article 1 can be extended to two school years, under conditions and in the manner provided for by the statutes etc." What does that mean under conditions? One condition is to say that these teachers still need college. For the truth, some were not needed even when they were younger, and now suddenly they will become badly needed. It's an automatic extension of the working relationship by two years. I have to tell you, I said that on the board yesterday, as far as I'm concerned, this amendment is becoming historic, because in all the laws that we passed on to the university there was this possibility of extension, if necessary. I've always submitted to the amendment. He's been denied. And last time, it was rejected by the government, in which the minister was Mr. Gašo Knezevic, but was accepted by MPs. They voted for my amendment. When I met Gusha, he told me that you'd be killed by the university, but nothing happened. A colleague asked me if I had to endure an amendment like that. So there's no extension after 65. If someone was born on October 1st or after October 1st, he still works that year. It also defines what a retired professor can do -- anything, if necessary, and if he can do it. So he can do anything just not give lectures to regular students. He can teach in postgraduate studies, he can be in committees for doctorates and magistrates, he can be in the teacher selection commission, he can do research, if the university has projects from the economy or the Ministry of Science and Ecology, if he knows he's doing it -- all of it can, just doesn't teach regular students. This contributes significantly to the rejuvenation of teaching staff. Why would someone sit for two years and take the place of a regular professor without someone younger than you being able to move, become a doctor from an assistant or, if more qualified, become an extraordinary or regular professor? So that's the problem that's being solved. I'll tell you right now, and I can't talk about it in public, because I promised to be discreet, but I do enjoy the support of the people who operate high school institutions. We solve them with great care, for they will not be able to resist, there will be terrible pressure. Which of the dean will say, Professor Simonovic is needed, let him work for another two years, and Professor Zivkovic is not, we will retire him? There's no dean like that that can resist it. That's what I've been saying in earlier councils -- to put in law that a university professor is retired when he's 67 years old, but then it's the same for everyone, not that it depends on the good will of the dean or the greater whether he's going to extend or not a working relationship. It can't be solved that way. Since that amendment of mine was accepted last time, it entered the law, nothing bad happened at university. Teachers who were retired, who were able to work and needed to do some other jobs besides teaching, they did it. Let me tell you right now, hiring retired professors isn't so massive but only those who really need to do something else. After all, there were teachers who didn't teach postgraduate school even when they were younger, just didn't do that kind of teaching. I'm referring you to that amendment and I'm asking you to study it carefully. I really, really care, I must admit it openly, that this amendment will pass. I leave his fate to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18682	Thank you, Professor. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 78 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18683	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 78. The proposal for a law on higher education, by proposing that the words "university, or other independent" should be deleted in Article 2. As Professor Simonovic said, article 2 of the proposed law on higher education speaks when a teacher can stop working after 65 years of retirement, and that is explicitly said for two years, if provided for by the university's statutes. So this is where a kind of deregulatory relationship, which the legislator is trying to regulate through the statute of the university, or the university, is doing, which I don't think is allowed or allowed, because these relations have to be explicitly regulated by law. This, otherwise by a very bad law, Mr. Minister, abolishs the management and financial function, the independence of the university, which corresponds only to private higher education institutions, and the proposed legal solution is inappropriate to most of the social colleges. If this solution from Article 78(2) were to be maintained, it would automatically mean extending the working relationship of the university professor for two more years. Of course, if this is proposed by the statutes, which is absolutely unacceptable. The truth is, a retired professor could be involved in conducting certain forms of teaching, but only in master's and doctoral studies, given the vast knowledge and experience of such professional staff, which should naturally be regulated in a way that the SRS wants to correct through amendments. I urge you to adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18684	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18685	It is evident that this article in 78 was written in a way that is meant by the state university and the university, but that private higher education institutions are not seen. What Mr. Koprivica has amended primarily concerns the continuity of the proposal to change the provisions of this bill that regulate what an independent higher education institution is and aim to get the university out of the clearly imposed status of submission to the university. But the first position actually contains a stereotype provision on the termination of a working relationship under certain conditions, and I have to say that these are the general conditions that extend in almost all the regulations that in some way concern working relationships. There is also an identical provision in the Labour Act, but there is also a provision in the Labour Act that indicates that under this regulation, which regulates higher education, and besides the regulation that regulates primary and secondary education, there is some possibility that under certain conditions and persons who meet the conditions for retirement still remain in working relationships so as not to suffer first of all classes. That's probably meant as a norm. Practice is something else. That's a fact. Our practice today is that retired professors teach at private universities. No, to use this formulation for two school years of the year in which the conditions are met and in which the working relationship has ceased, but today every pensioner can be re-employed. Although according to some of the professions, at age 65, there is a presumption that the person has lost his ability to work, so on. general work capacity. At 65 years of age, it's the insurance case that's making you retire, because there's an assumption that the job is lost. If the lost working ability to hold a person's lecture and teaching classes is likely to be lost and the working ability to participate as a member of a commission in defence or choice, etc. But I fully agree with the view that there should be some legitimate reason, but I am fully aware of the fact that if this justified reason for extending the employment relationship was in this law, it would only apply to state colleges. He wouldn't apply to private people at all, and he would be in some kind of trouble with the general attitude of the Labour Act, which does not prohibit pensioners from working, which does not prohibit the employer from receiving pensioners. Protecting yourself from abuse only to the state university would be an injustice. I guess it protects the state from abuse at all levels, regardless of the form of organization and property form and who is the founder of some high school institution. I really share my opinion with all MPs who have been writing amendments to this attitude that the objective norm given is too wide and allows for a concrete reason here for the university to extend its working relationship to full 67 years can put everything and everything, but if the situation is to be extended for two more school years to work for a university professor, then the question is inevitably raised, and what about the staff, what about planning, what did that university do, wasn't he pre-prepared when, for that moment, probably, judging by the years and the job experience, a teacher in calling a regular professor is going to retire. We also have situations that, in these years prescribed by attitude one, we have both docents and extraordinary, less docents, and much more extraordinary teachers, and most regular ones, but we also have a situation like that. That is why I believe that a combination of these amendments to this article or the acceptance of all these amendments can satisfy one requirement and one that we represent continuously, which can be defined as preserving the independence and autonomy of the university.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18686	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education has submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 78th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 85th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18687	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 85. Proposal for a law on higher education. Namely, the attitude of the 1st member speaks of the need for new students to enroll in a college of 100 points, which in this present, as it was in this admission exam, those who have, I say, practically all fives in high school that can make 40 points maximum, and 60 on the day of the admission exam. It's usually 30 points. So 30 questions per two points, 60 points. I suggest that the first position of article 85 be complemented, that it be the opposite proportion, that 60 points go to four years of school and 40 on the day of the admission exam. Why do I say that? There are more reasons because there is room for greater manipulation, because the board of directors of the university decides exactly that proportion, which we of the SRS think is wrong and unfair. That should still be regulated by law, because I mean that we had almost received exams in colleges, where high school students had to graduate from barely three, but those who were wolves happened not to enter the budget, didn't even go to some colleges, so they had to reorient to some other colleges, which I think is another additional injustice. And in addition to what I said, it should also be stated that, if we consider other factors, which can happen on the day of the entrance exam, some problems within the family or, of course, the tremors, like any normal man, can also happen in young people, so that day can have an increased nervous system, so that practically in one hour those four years are being activated, and the student has worked hard. That's how we destabilize high school students to fight for the best of success. However, many negative estimates are given from this pay phone, and I don't want to get into it, and it would be too much to say, any criticism. We could hear that today and yesterday in the debates. However, to return to Article 85. I talked to several MPs from other parties, but I didn't get a special explanation, because there's simply no explanation here, there's talk about the image of individual universities, also about other things. But there's no real reason here. It should be pointed out that our schooling really shows results. Let us take into consideration that our students of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering became world champions, where they had two American colleges for opponents, and it should be emphasized that this is a product of precisely good quality of our higher education. Which means you don't have to make any big changes and you don't have to invent anything new. It should also be said that professors who teach at foreign universities are also highly esteemed and show great results. They get very often offers and often our teachers stay abroad. We can imagine how much that loss is in both material and other terms when it comes to our country. It should also be pointed out that you have often called for the West and, gentlemen, since 2000, every law when we coordinate is always referred to west, in Europe. We Serbian radicals, like true Orthodoxs, when we pray to God we turn east, and you gentlemen have been about to turn west and pray to God since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18688	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 86th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18689	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just one explanation. The amendment to Article 86, which we submitted, was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on Education and, of course, supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Given that the Committee's session felt that it was necessary to clarify this position as proposed, it was agreed that this amendment should be tabled by the Committee on Education, which was done, with the consent of the Government, so that it became an integral part of the law, and we are interested in the essence, not form, and for these reasons we withdraw this amendment. For reasons of rationality, Mr. Chairman, if possible, it is the same situation with our amendments to Article 90, which speaks of the test deadlines, where we have requested the October exam deadline, on Article 110, which speaks of the selection procedure of the national council and of Article 118, which speaks of the founding rights of the university set up by Serbia, to continue with the founding rights. Can I now withdraw my amendments to those members? So 86, 90, 110 and 118. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18690	The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 86 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 87th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18691	We're going back to the same story, same question, points, points for one year of study, getting to know students with the volume of studies and the choice of points. So, one of the galatias that I really asked the minister to explain this in principle debate, and here I am now agreeing to be explained, even if I was wrong to withdraw everything, because it really won't be clear to me to the end that someone who is funding their own funds has 37 points, to sign up a scientific field, to be a doctor, engineer, airman, and someone who is budgeting 60 points, that's a minimum, and all the rights that come from that. Now, I'm staying for a few things on request, and that's why this amendment proposes to be 60 and 60. They're studying the same college together, and it makes sense that everyone does the same thing. What's the point? He can pick items to get to 60, so if there's anything we want to do to this one that's being financed, let him pick some other items. But that's not clear again. How can someone enroll in a first year of medical school to pick out classes? Whether at last, by running away from the selection of an object, he'll run away from some key object, and what kind of doctor he'll be without a key object or what kind of engineer he'll be who hasn't mastered internal combustion engines, hydraulics, fluids, etc. Or a lawyer who hasn't studied a subject has chosen not to take him. He says, "This college is hard for me, I'm going to go 37 points every year and I'm never going to take the hardest class." I know it's impossible, but I'm just waiting for someone to explain, because it would really be nonsensical if it were possible for someone to skip the class and get a degree or even a surrogate degree as a witness, which would give him the right to be, but what. What could it be, being a doctor or not being a doctor? To be a lawyer or an assistant, maybe. What if he takes medicine? What if he takes the pharmacy? She'll be a pharmacy, a high school, or a pharmacy or a high school, or a higher pharmaceutical, if she doesn't finish her study of 240 points. It's pretty vague. What else makes it more vague? It's very specific examples right now. Take the site, Belgrade will not open, let me inform you, this BU will not open its website at the Medical Faculty, but Kragujevacki will open immediately, Novosadski will open and open Niski. For the miracle of Novosadski, as far as I can see, there's also sociology at medical school. If I had opened Lomonosov and read it there, I wouldn't have been surprised, there's history, language, Latin, Russian history, etc., but this one has sociology, it's all the first year. If you compare these three first years of studies to three facualties, you see that there are no same programs, and they have to, at least for budgets, be all 60 points each. This means that, for example, sociology will enter points somewhere like English or, for example, the Introduction to Clinical Practice. All three of the items I mentioned are not included in the curricula and the program for the first year of studies at each university. Maybe it's an electoral object somewhere. That's not the case here. You're even galamatias with those points, with those objects, when this much is made heterogeneous. It was clear before. The first year of medical school has an anatomy of one, biology, physics, chemistry. It was known throughout Serbia, throughout Yugoslavia, everywhere it was the same. It's understandable to me that this is being stabbed. You point and you go to the world, and here you're holed up inside your own country, your own few colleges 100 kilometers away, you're going to have a different score. Who's going to accept that if molecular and human genetics stings the same as the history of medicine, and everyone has to be 60. You have to cancel somewhere, because the programs aren't the same. Then what's the point of points, what you're dealing with, grandmothers and frogs, is impossible. It's just a story for itself. These 37 points remain an enigma. Now she's got her rights transferred, if someone with 37 points effectively ends everything in time and wants to say, "I'm sorry, I want to be budgetary." The promoter predicted some provision, some percentages that would allow, twenty percent of such self-financed ones to move into budgets. Who's going to ban him tomorrow, what's going to be the criteria - the closer you get to 60, that's a better chance. Let's put it that way. The advantage will be the ones with multiple points. And what if these other self-financed people turn themselves in to 60 to go? Is that enough again if the state had said – no, if they had been good, they would have passed the exam on time, they would not have been self-financed. You can't take them all. It is said in congregation towers about how to limit the level of those without exceeding 20 percent, if I understand, which will enroll next year on budget spending. I'm sure it would be against the law to sign it from 37 points, to compete with whoever finished his first year of studies from 60 points to two, to three. So a concrete example of how something hasn't been done on the operational field, and it's costing three or four minutes of work, three websites open and you say -- here, to stab, someone from the commission who's rules stabs this thing, so obviously let the points be divided, let them agree, let some doctors, some deans share it, and say it's unusable. Then lose every sense, it's no longer comparable value, if you're going to stab the same objects differently. We think it's best, after all these remarks, that this law is withdrawn, that this comes back, it's never too late. We wouldn't be angry if he broke the minister's procedure. Just so the President of the Republic doesn't sign this and we don't have this law, we don't play with these things. There's so much confusion here, and I don't know what I'm gonna do tomorrow, when one of my colleagues asks me what I'm gonna tell him tomorrow. I'm an MP, I've defended here, and today I've been standing on my feet all day, and how I'm going to explain that 37 points, and a lot of things that are unclear to me. They'll expect me to be at the source of legislative action. I keep asking the minister, but the minister is right not to answer. Or there'll be some instructions. You know, even with a simple transistor, they give the flea instructions how to use it, and you don't have a basic legal review, not in the law, but to say, the following instructions will be, or I will now as Minister or Deputy Minister to present to you, so that you don't ask these questions anymore, to reassure the public, that future students are not afraid. And if they don't say-- go, son, and get the medicine, take 37 points, which you care about, you'll pass 37, you'll be in the budget, don't take that anatomy, it's heavy, be a doctor without anatomy. Anything's possible. This is getting almost ridiculous now. But I'm not guilty, I didn't write this, I'm just reading how it's written and reading the current programs of our colleges that they put on the site. I didn't make any of this up. This camera from above can't zoom in, there's no need, I'm really standing by my word and height behind every sentence and behind each of these structures, programming schemes every year of study. I only took my first year of study, not to complicate the story, because it applies to all the years of the study. What an evening, balancing and ESPB points, what an extra degree will be when you write that for someone for Germany to compete. When our programs are out of line, what will happen to the German or serious Russian program, which doesn't even have any clinical objects, to my surprise, which we have. For doctors, clinicians don't have any clinical objects, some segments. When you print a diploma in addition, it will be more of a diploma than the diploma itself, both in format and content, because it will contain a lot of what has to be described. There might be a number in the parentheses as a point value, but for nothing, it's not a pie. I don't know what Europe is, what that Bologna was supposed to do to you, to scare you. Who scared you? What did you do? I don't know what kind of influential lobby made you do this. What's interesting is that not many members of this famous pre-screen review committee were involved in the review of teaching content. No, they were interested in autonomy and neonomy, where the money was. What will be offered to students, how much will they learn, say it was never a problem of the BU dispute. They probably all understood, I didn't, no one's explained it to me so far, and publicly speaking, millions of people listen, that I don't understand how this is going to be, and whoever explains it to me, I'll be grateful. But that explanation must be so understood by all our enrolled students or those who intend to enroll, that they know what they're entitled to. It's a great story for those who will opt for electoral subjects. And these electoral items have to be scored. Why would anyone take them? What if there's no point? How to stab? Or, always leave the luft between five mandatory ones and, let's say, one electoral one, so that election's worth three points, and you pick the easiest one -- I'll have physical education, here one give a fiscultura, and they'll take a fiscultura as an electoral object, and some history of medicine, some English. It may cause laughter in the O.R., but it's theoretically possible. All of this must be 60 or for the one who finances himself 37. So, I think this is the culmination of the ambiguity in a legal proposal or the culmination of a chaos that's only created to post-poly put this in front of the MPs, I don't know with which idea, whether or not this is going to be read. Mr. Minister, you know, if you followed the assembly, the opposition always reads the laws. They don't read those of you who vote and the Priors, ad hoc, sometimes read, but the opposition always reads all the laws and analyzes them thoroughly, asks questions that are of interest to the public. Are you able to answer that, to explain it to us, or not? It's our only question and purpose of the amendment. Obviously, there is no dilemma here, equalize 60:60. Simple. I don't know where the Bologna Declaration says you can have less if it says at least 60. Where did you find 37? I didn't read it. Again, please give that declaration from which you saw it, these 10-11s they wrote, where they read that it should be so, whose model? Mr. Momchilov analyzed all of Western Europe, so he didn't find a model like that. We're caught. I've thoroughly analyzed the Russians and I've seen them do it that way, but they've been through science for 11 years, there's nothing for a year or two after the study, but they're learning thoroughly. If you want instant scientists, instant doctors, instant magistrates, then I understand. It's possible, instant food is modern, instant procedures, instant technology is Western technology. That's where we're going to be in neo-humanism, and then that's a different story, that's what we should say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18692	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 87th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. You're withdrawing the amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic jointly submitted to the 90th amendment. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18693	Ladies and gentlemen, some of my colleagues, therefore, the MPs from the SRS, through their discussions pointed out that this proposal for a law on higher education was done by NGOs, resulting in the Ministry of Education, i.e. the Government being very passive in the making of this law. I would not agree here, I would not share my opinion with my colleagues, because they have made an effort to achieve the value of the SRS parliamentary group, because we have submitted 41 amendments, and the government has submitted 31 amendments to this law, which will say that it has participated in this law. I have no intention of favouring some citizens in Serbia and underestimating some, but you have seen what dilemma the MP, Professor Milet Poscurica, has presented, who has prepared well for this law and has many dilemmas and misunderstandings for it. I have a feeling that a group, without intent to offend them, of the citizens of Ugrinovac, of average secondary education, would do one qualitative law, which all of us who have dealt with in the past few days with this problem of understanding and that we can pass on to those who chose us and showed us trust to be their people's representatives. My amendment refers to Article 90. Namely, Article 90. The law on higher education as exams take place, where they take place, where everything can be taken, and then talks about the test deadlines. The bill states that the deadlines in question are January, April, July, September. Many students have to pay unwarrantedly high scholarships, and one MP spoke of unequal criteria in a number of higher education organisations around the tuition, that is, the amount of the tuition. Then, it was said that we should not worry about those who enroll in some private colleges. By paying these studies, students come up with positive assessments, come up with certain calls, that we do not need as a state, or as representatives of the people to worry about their employment, and then at least we could meet those students, give them another test deadline, and that would be next to January, and so I propose that in the amendment, we add a January-February deadline. Because we know that in January and annual holidays, religious and other holidays, so there remains a smaller number of working days in January, so that this is extended to February, and that in addition to the April, June and September deadlines are added. In fact, when reading and preparing for this session, or in this part of the agenda, I had several dilemmas. It might be a more effective law to propose the abolition of the Law on Higher Education, as we had a few days ago the Law on the repeal of the NIS Act. It is likely that some procedures and arrangements within the ruling coalition would lead to such a law, and then we could do whatever we want. Following the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, and you saw the presence of Professor Vojislav Seselj, the president of the SRS, you saw Prosecutor Najs, who, by the wisdom and wisdom of the president of our party, was entangled as a chicken in the house. I guess it used to be a similar law under which Prosecutor Nyss was educated and came to a certain knowledge fund, look at a little bit, we'll share the tapes and if you're interested, you'll see how a man couldn't handle himself. I'm sure there's been some kind of application of this law somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18694	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia and joint MPs Vladimir Homan and Miloljub Albianic submitted to the 90th amendment in the same text. The proposing representative and the Enlightenment Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Dragore Hiber has submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 91st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. It's a withdrawn amendment, so I'm guessing the amendment's been withdrawn. National MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic submitted the 92th amendment together. And it's a withdrawn amendment. Ambassador Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 95th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. I also find that this amendment has been withdrawn, since you are asking for it. So to member of the 95th People's MP Velimir Simonovic. The Committee for Education has submitted to Article 95 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 101 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Mileta Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18695	Ladies and gentlemen, here again is the question addressed to the MPs, the Proposer, also addressed to Europe, who has set the goals set for us in the declaration, why when we are going to nostrification, equivalence, or the recognition of the right to continue education or to employ those who have completed colleges outside our country and during the ratification of a contract that implies this possibility, we now need to develop special mechanisms that we will solve and at the level of an independent higher education institution. Imagine, the University of Bu, a hundred times mentioned today, where 30 universities are and now the General Act of BU must contain 30 certain mini rules for the recognition of criteria, and principles and methodologies of nostrification. I won't be everywhere equal, it's not the same procedure. He implies that you must also know the number of points that he has achieved, the registration program, and the mass of documents is provided by the ministry and is surely forwarded to universities, so that one established mechanism is later implemented through others. Why should this process not be translated and left to the very educational higher education institution, which schooles when, that is, the profile that wants to nostrify a diploma. So, if we haven't done that before, to get back to the Republic level, to decide the Ministry and so on. They brought down a certain degree of decentralisation, because we finally have something similar when the war events, when the archives go down, and you, based on a certain number of papers in some municipal court, regulate your calling that you had. There's much more, much more data, no need for so much suspense and putting in charge of a senior educational institution that it makes mechanisms and a final decision. Come on, the final decision can also be made, some kind of befel in the choice of calling, confirms it, puts a stamp and so on, as a diploma, but technology itself is unnecessary to conduct universities, especially large universities. We expect one big fluctuation after this law, so many will go to school there, and they will come here, and they will nostrify it, so they have two diplomas, so they have different standards on diplomas. There's gonna be a big deal. Which would burden the university that it works for all 30 Belgrade universities, or for 10 in Kragujevac, or 15 in Nis, when any university can do it for itself or much better, whose jurisdiction is not highlighted in the first plan, and that is the college community. Not the university community, because it's a huge body, but the college community could do a lot of things. That would be much more related. The heterogeneity of teaching subjects has been observed in our field, and one day these related communities, related or the same colleges, will sit down and agree. Imagine the reverse situation, when someone admits something of ours in Paris and says, "These from Nis there's no way to receive them," they teach sociology, what their appendix, their addition to diplomas, are better off not showing up and saying they lost it on the way on the plane. It says sociology. He won't. But the Kragujevac wants it now, they have a very modern science research production, for work, for it and take Kragujevac, and beat Kragujevac as a junior college of Nis. It's a little ironic, but basically it is, because he has to put all the content, the program, the points, as it's written down, the conditions of the enrolment, what everything's asked for, what everything's supposed to be. Okay, maybe it's international norms and that's the way it's supposed to be, but when we offer our contents, and now he reads sociology. Which wouldn't be simpler -- let's wait to see, it might be their old site, but let them now turn red for having an unscheduled website. I don't care. They write sociology in medicine. What's the dean doing there? Let the minister see that he's changing, but he can't do it anymore. Okay. Let it affect the rector, it will be able, although of course the deans choose the rector, but well, we can turn everything around. They're a little bit of a joke to break up what we've got right now, but it's not a joke or a serious problem. We impose something on universities and we say -- so look how much the university has to do, so the administration, so this, that. And we're going into the jurisdiction of the university that's been given, where there are administrations with joint jobs, and there's even at the first and last point where we talk about joint business, joint information, common database. So that's what the university is going to take over from the university's primary school, postgraduate. Just so colleges are happy about it. What kind of job is that? How much work there is, which is a mine, and now the university is going to take all these general jobs for 20 colleges. Let's get the biggest barracks in Belgrade for the BU so that he can do the job. What did you need? What were you making this up? Where this leads, I really don't know. At least adopt this amendment to change something, it's not too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18696	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruždic-Trifunović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted to Article 110 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 110th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The amendment has been withdrawn. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the 110th amendment, in the same text, and together with the correction, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorovici Meho Omerovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education adopted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that this amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragore Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The amendment has been withdrawn. On Article 116, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18697	I am young, but by this law of yours, obviously a lot younger will be able to reach doctoral titles, and then only those doctoral titles will certainly not mean what they meant before and what they mean today. Article 116 provides for a procedure for the granting of accreditation and authorisation for the work of the university. I'd just ask the minister to at least listen, while he's here. He hasn't been in the entire afternoon, and during the afternoon he managed to take some time to get here, but maybe it would be better if he hadn't, because I think he's the only minister who's been sitting here all day and hasn't bothered to answer any questions to the MPs. It is obvious that only the SRS parliamentary group is ready and willing to discuss this law. It is obvious that especially the professors of our parliamentary group have prepared extremely well for this debate and I only hope that Minister Vuksanovic will not think of trying to come out here for a pay phone after this debate is over and giving the final word. It would indeed be the destruction of every MP's dignity here, because if you didn't want to comment on all these arguments that the MPs of the SRS have kept to you here, it would really not be appropriate for you to try here, in a few minutes, to make a statement, which all the media will then pass on. When looking at Article 116, in particular Article 2, the question arises whether those who have written this law have ever completed a law school, because Article 2 provides that those universities and universities, or the Academy of Arts, who have received a solution on the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and for the exercise of activity, will be considered as saying in the law, to have the permit to work until the end of the procedure laid down in Article 1 or until the completion of the re-creation and authorisation procedure for work is completed. It is totally incomprehensible to predict such a solution in the law, that some universities, which have an extremely long tradition, such as the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, which has unearthed many experts, the Faculty of Education and Slobodan Jovanovic and many other prominent Serbian lawyers, as it is possible to predict that in the next three years it is possible to re-determine whether the Faculty of Law and many other universities, and since I am a lawyer in the profession of law school, must again prove that they have the conditions to carry out the work they do. Are the professors, who are employed at that university, there are good, enough guarantees, all these generations of students who have graduated from law school and become good experts, guarantees for anything. Or for what reason they'll have to prove again that they're good enough, similar enough, to continue with the education of new young generations. If amendments to the SRS are accepted, the words will be deleted - until the end of the procedure referred to in Article 116, which means that, after the entry into force of this law, all universities and universities, as well as the Academy of Arts, as part of the university, who have received a solution on the fulfilment of the conditions for the start of work and for the exercise of activity until the entry into force of this law, will be deemed to have a work permit. This is a solution that is incomparably better, not only because it will significantly reduce the tasks and obligations of this accreditation commission, whose formation is envisaged, because it will then determine the conditions only for newly formed universities, because, in practice, I don't know what would be the reason for institutions that have been functioning for tens of years to prove again that they are capable of doing what they need to do. I think that this relationship and MPs of the ruling coalition and at all the president of the National Assembly, who has decreed that we here as vampires until half of the night are discussing this law, which, according to your words, is very important to the citizens of Serbia and there is no one here who would listen to any arguments being made and the real question is how and on what basis, later on, when it comes to that and vote. I think you should reconsider this amendment and the other amendments to the SRS. This is something that will in no way compromise the concept of this law or the Bologna Declaration, which you are so pleased to call upon. I think that most of us here, who didn't even read the law, that Bologna Declaration only served as an excuse, so whatever we point out to you, you say no, that's what the Bologna Declaration requires, that's what Europe requires, and in fact most of those who called for the Bologna Declaration didn't read it, they don't know what it says, because the demands of Europe just aren't like that. Europe allows each country to retain some of its specificities. Already this law has long been in the process, practically three times withdrawn, and this also speaks of the government's inconclusiveness and the unseriousness of the promoters. After the three lectures and the withdrawal of the law from the procedure, the government managed to submit 31 amendments to the bill. Why was that done? How did that happen? Whether or not anyone will be held accountable because, of course, I don't know, but I think that because of all those generations that have completed colleges in Serbia, and those that have yet to do so, you should think about it a little bit, because if you vote this law in this form that you have proposed, you will find it difficult to correct the consequences that this law will surely produce. How will you repay lost years to those who are forced to learn one, two years or how long this law is in force, and I don't think it's going to be long, but you have to keep in mind that you won't be able to take back time and that you'll be responsible for all that's going to happen as a result of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18698	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 116 of the amendment. The Committee on Education has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 116, the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18699	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are bringing an end to this debate. We've been arguing all day. The SRS are trying to fix the amendments with something that is absolutely irreparable. On Article 116, MP Milorad Mircic submitted an amendment asking for a new position to be added to Article 5, which reads: "The colleges set up by the Republic of Serbia before the entry into force of this law retain the legal personality and are considered to have a licence for work and accreditation." We have been through the amendments today precisely on this subject and on this point discussing, proving that universities in Serbia, especially universities in Belgrade, are much older than universities, that many generations of top world names, top experts, have come out of these universities, and now any college of which is the founder of the state, you bring to the same level with the university that can establish any of these new-component businessmen, who have acquired certain funds that they can pay possibly a few professors and form cathedrals. That is why we believe that Belgrade's universities should retain the legal personality and that universities in Belgrade, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, should be considered to have work and accreditation permits.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18700	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18701	Yes, it is necessary to protect the dignity of our colleges and therefore this amendment has been submitted, so that the Faculty of Law, through the University of Belgrade, would not ask its former students, and now in some body, a permit for work and accreditation, because even in the time of the accreditation, that college has failed those I am now asking. That is why this amendment has been tabled to swing a slap on the NGO sector that destroys everything it gets to. But I must draw attention to you that this bill essentially changes from the foundation of an existing system of higher education. In these administrative oversight provisions you have also inserted inspection supervision, here you take any law in the Republic of Serbia, if there is in one area administrative oversight and inspection supervision, it is likely to be divided into at least two different members. With you, the tozbrda-down is placed in one member, and it is said: "Governmental supervision of the work of higher education institutions is carried out by the Ministry. "It's chapter 15. The inspection shall be carried out within the framework of Article 106. Please see what they have written about what an inspector can do - to cancel the enrolment of students in the first year of studies over the number of students established in accordance with the membership; to repeal the enrolment of students who have been carried out contrary to the provisions of this law; to temporarily prohibit the exercise of high-level education by a legal person who carries out that activity contrary to the provisions of this law. The one who temporarily prohibits or prohibits the exercise of activity -- you've prescribed this, but you've forgotten only one thing, that the character of this law has changed and that we now have permission to work. I guess we should withdraw the license. If a licence is withdrawn, you have a clear set of provisions which respect the status of a student of the higher education institution that has been withdrawn from work permit or banned from work, in terms of their status rights, the possibility of continuing and ending at another higher education institution. Here you have given the authority of an inspector to a single institution, which enjoys freedom of academic work, action and creation, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and law by autonomy, form of independence and freedom, by an inspector temporarily prohibiting work. Imagine that, there comes an inspector and forbidding a medical school to perform a temporary activity, and, just to remind you, you have enlisted new quasi-state authorities in the form of the National High Education Council, the Accreditation Commission, and even the Ministry that issues and withdraws permits. It's all messed up. My people, when you see it in the signature of an NGO, throw it in the trash can and sit down and write something new. The 100 amendments were submitted by the Government, 30 under the government's firm, and the rest of the G17 plus, the DSS, etc. We're all aware this isn't right. We are not angry that you will not accept our amendments. We are not angry with those who have written, so under the pressure of one former minister, the entire parliamentary group has given up on the amendment. Let's not get mad at them either. You proved the bill wrong. The government with 100 amendments, which directly, indirectly, intervened and of course couldn't fix this text. This is an irreparable text, this is a text only for the trash bin. We didn't want to go, as we do with some laws to go from member to member, so we can correct legal and technical nebuloses, etc. We just wanted to point out something that can't be in the law and what the adverse consequences will be if this applies. I'm not surprised you put these big deadlines to start applying, agreeing, probably standards, etc. There's a lot of work to be done or to be more precise about inheriting or to take a step further than what has already been achieved, and to correct something that is wrong, and certainly there's something wrong. But with this bill, if it becomes the right law, norm, a set of binding norms, believe me, you'll only create a galatias, you'll do nothing, but destroy one area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18702	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 118 of the amendment. The Education Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 118th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Misa Petronijevic and MP Dragor Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. You're retired, but Mr. Dragore Hiber didn't, so that's why I'm reading. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Dr Slobodan Vuksanovic, minister of education and sports, want the final word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18703	Dear Members, thank you for today's day, that is, a large number of presentations and a large number of amendments. I have to say why this law has such a large number of amendments, because it's consistent with the way it's written. It was written in one single way that it could have been done without having problems and getting the best possible text at this point. Of course there are no ideal texts and, of course, it will probably show in practice in the next three, four, five or how many years that this text needs to be perfected. This will happen in other countries that are implementing this reform in the same way, and they are all implementing it in Europe in the same way. We had the opportunity to make such an old-fashioned, ancient-time law, civil society, several ministry officials to sit down, to prescribe a European standard, that's all available, is on site, has our Ministry, has, has, will have, will have communication with international institutions at the Council of Europe, the EU, etc. And it wouldn't be any special secret. It is certainly in the area of higher education, where by the nature of things there are intellectual elites of one nation and one state, opinions are very strong, personalities are strong, and then the ministry, that group of officials, would collapse both students and teachers with their ideas, with their own opinions, and it would be difficult to orchestrate and in general operate in one common text. In addition to being democratic, it was also very practical and in line with our political biography, because each of us has its own political biography, it was in line with ten years or even more promises to invite all of the most legitimate representatives of the academic community, and I don't know who's more legitimate than the rectors, who are not appointed by the government, who are not affected by the government, because some new time has come, but have been chosen by their colleagues. So we added to state rectors, as popularly said in the jargon, the rectors of the largest private universities, so we joined representatives of all student organisations, because there are more and they don't think the same, and then we joined working groups from different universities, and then some deans who had something to say, and then some people from policies that work in colleges and who have a certain experience, longer or shorter. All of them were opened to our doors. I was not forbidden by vanity to keep that door open. I felt that no one in the Ministry, nor in the Government, nor would I fall in gold if we were practical, rational and withdrawn at one point of the law, we would withdraw at another point, however necessary, of course within a reasonable time. Then we wanted to remain consistent with ourselves, remain democratic and at the same time nationalally responsible, smart people, who will not accept anything for the sake of their own party or for any marketing of their government, their own ministry, their own parties. We wanted to keep that door open until the last minute. No matter what the procedure said, we adapted to her, because order must exist. So all these so-called. The government's amendments are actually amendments to student organisations, amendments to professors or rectors, which have worked on a continuous basis and have come up with some better ideas in these mutual collegiate talks and meetings. There are several parliamentary amendments, which have been handed over at some point and which we have also included in the government's amendments. So, without vanity, with national responsibility, in the same way that national interests protect other countries and other nations, so we tried to do the same. The national interest is primarily protected by democracy and, by the way, I guess I don't have to say, I'm smart. If that's not there, it's hard on the national interest. Then, at this last moment, I must say that the people who have been here for several years have been saying that the Education Committee has never worked or perhaps other committees, so no party uniforms have been observed. I really felt very good and very comfortable in those few hours, because I don’t know how it has been for the last few years in the congregation benches and the congregation committees, and I could talk a lot about how it was for the first six years in this congregation and in the congregation committees. So much for how our committee works, i.e. Your Education Committee, which I especially thank, because if there is such work and beyond, and not only in the hall of education, but also in others, there is hope for all of us in Serbia. So, you will tell the public yourself, first of all, the professional public and academic, as it is said, whether it is in our practice back then, select any period, 50 years, 30 years, whether it was a practice for the ministry to be in this sense a public service and not to be a commissioner, but to be simply an open colleague, a civil servant on a temporary job. I take that as a job. In that sense, I am responsible in this way. You yourself will say, first of all, you MPs and people who work in the Assembly, journalists who follow the congregation's life, whether it was ever such an atmosphere in terms of co-operation, visiting parliamentary clubs. We've visited some of the MPs' clubs several times. So, as many times as we've been called by a party, a parliamentary party, we've gone to her rooms, either in the Assembly, or in the party rooms. Before, as the good democratic and domestic order dictates, we came forward, addressed all parties with a letter, wishing to present the bill to them and, of course, to adopt their objections. That's what's done. So all parliamentary parties had a number of amendments and all parliamentary parties received one number of amendments in this text. It was accepted without prejudice, least of all party. Once again, thank you so much for this great effort.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-25-0.u18704	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're finishing today's work. The session continues on Monday, 29 August, at 10.00 hours.
