ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23815	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue a joint principled search on proposals for laws on the conversion of unpaid pensions and cash benefits of employees and farmers into public debt of Serbia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Security and Social Security Act and the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. DISCUSSING ON THE BASE OF THE JOBS – REQUIREMENT OF THE SRS TO THE GOVERNMENT PUBLIC A PUBLIC OF MLADJAN DINKIĆ (at the previous session of the National Assembly on 8 December 2005, the finance minister said he "does not look back on the objections of those who are primitive, who are bastards", and that "he does not argue with bastards and primitive people". ) The word is the Verse of Radet, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23816	Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 December 2005, the SRS issued a statement on the following content: "The SRS requires the government of Serbia and its President Vojislav Kostunica to publicly fence themselves from the inauguration of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic in the Serbian parliament, where it has insulted Serbian citizens and MPs in the most harsh way." Dinkic, among other things, said: "This time I do not want to look back on the remarks of those who are primitive, who are bastards and who have given themselves the right to judge themselves. But with bastards and primitive people, I don't fight." The SRS informs the public that as long as the government does not apologize to MPs of the National Assembly, Serbian radicals will not discuss laws whose representative is Mladjan Dinkic, and any kind of debate, as proposed by the finance minister, will be fully devised. What's this about? The public is known that only SRS MPs are criticising government proposals, including proposals represented by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic here. It was perfectly logical to conclude that Mladjan Dinkic, when he said this, meant the MPs of the SRS. Of course, in this way he insulted, first of all, this Parliament, each MP individually, the SRS parliamentary group, the entire SRS, all our voters, all our sympathisers, ultimately – all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we went out with this statement and expected the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister, to come forward. Of course, the president of parliament is responsible for failing to protect the dignity of the National Assembly. Vojislav Kostunica is responsible because he has not adequately fenced himself from such a statement by his minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to remind you: I am the Witch of Radeta, I am a graduate lawyer, a MP of the SRS, born in Livna, in a decent and honest family, in which no one is guilty, let alone a criminal response. I want to know if Mladjan Dinkic and I were called a bastard, does he think I'm a bastard and a commoner? I want that answer both from Mladjan Dinkic and Vojislav Kostunica and I want protection, as a national MP, from the President of Parliament, Mr Markovic. That's what all the MPs of the SRS want. I expect the appropriate treatment of Parliament President and Prime Minister according to this truly unserious, irresponsible statement by Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23817	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, to whom the limits of this House's reprehensible reputation is clear, also shows the fact that certain ministers take the right to use words that cannot be used on the street when they come here to explain the laws to us. Last Thursday, Minister Dinkic, using his own, gave him the right by himself, by Vojislav Kostunica, or by parliament speaker, used the time to enforce, primarily, the SRS parliamentary group, SRS voters, SRS supporters. So one minute he got the impression that here with MPs, with those behind whom 22,000 votes stand individually, someone could wipe out the floor. Did Mladjan Dinkic transfer a jargon from co-operation with certain musicians from some joints or cafes, I don't care. In parliament, when it comes to clarifying the laws, Mladjan Dinkic and all other ministers must act, above all, in accordance with the norms of normal conduct, and then in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. Our Rules of Procedure, in Rule 104, restricts that we must safeguard the dignity of the Assembly, that we must not speak offensively to each other and to the minister and to all those who come here to speak to us. Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, should apply to everyone. I particularly resent the president of the National Assembly for finding it appropriate to go over it with three or four unsaid sentences. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my name is Markovic Momir, I'm a graduate politician, I have 31 years of employment in companies, primarily in business. The family, from me to the fifth generation, had nothing to do with the organs, except when you held me in Sabrela, and day and day, here three years have passed since then, is still at the level of criminal charges. I do not allow, for my ancestors' sake, nor for myself, nor for my descendants' sake to call me a bastard anywhere, and above all I do not allow here in parliament, because here I represent 22,000 votes, as far as the SRS's parliamentary mandate, whose representative I am. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not asking Dinkic and anyone who's ever spoken to him like that to apologize. I ask the president of the National Assembly to protect the dignity of this high house, to protect the MPs from Dinkic and similar to him. I demand that the president, after my presentation and after the presentation, probably another SRS MP, come out for this speaker and say what he will do about the insults that the minister has done to the entire parliamentary group and half of Serbia's citizens. I demand the Prime Minister, Vojislav Kostunica, to be fenced by Mladjan Dinkic and all similar ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23819	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23820	Regardless of the change in the chairman, Mladjan Dinkic, on that day, committed a serious violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because in the last sentence of his presentation, which was to explain two draft laws, said a series of insults that certainly refer to SRS lawmakers, because only those in this room are critics of everything that Mladjan Dinkic does, and what citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel about their skin daily through the fall of living standards. At the end of that session, I called on Mr Markovic, and I tried to help him, since he was not present at the time when Mladjan Dinkic gave these offensive and defamatory statements, and I invited him to ask Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica if he authorised Mladjan Dinkic to defend the bill in such a way that he was disabling a group of MPs, moreover, said the bastards and those who made the public debt, referring to the SPS. You know what he thinks. ) This debt has arisen, if you have not met, much sooner and after you have forgotten, I will tell you. When Serbian radicals were in the government of the Republic of Serbia, they allowed some pensions to be remedied through electricity, and you are probably aware that the debt later increased over a period of time and later decreased. The fact that you didn't recognize yourself, that's your problem, I'm not calling you. I'm just pointing out the question of a man who's supposed to represent a state that has to represent a state. He can't behave like that, he can't use a dictionary like that. When it comes to the finance minister, almost nothing can surprise us. He comes in jeans, makes an incident to cover him up to leave this room, because he can't stand the open criticism, the argumentary criticism of the devastating moves he's making. Vojislav Kostunica must plead, or he must apologize to this National Assembly or seek to change the finance minister or whatever he wants to do with it, but such a finance minister does not need the National Assembly. To you, who do most, let me just say, you are probably able to vote that Mladjan Dinkic did not hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you that you're taking great responsibility if that archaic applies in the future to the speeches of all those who are authorized, whether they're MPs or others who are speaking to the public from this assembly pay phone. It is quite obvious that the insolence from that man has come out and that he has injured, first of all, this organ, then the MPs who criticize him, and therefore the voters, the sympathisers, so why not tell both the descendants and the ancestors of those who criticize Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23821	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23822	Think about what would happen if every time we defend our amendment from this pay phone, it's time, I'm telling you, who you don't vote for my amendment, that you're bastards. Would that be an insult? It would be an insult. Because I'm affecting your right to free choice and disabling it in advance. That's what Mladjan Dinkic did and thus drew attention to the fact that he does not want to suffer criticism, probably behind it is Vojislav Kostunica. Vojislav Kostunica and Predrag Markovic must declare whether this is a new democratic rule promoted by the government. If you do, say it, if you're not convicted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23823	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Albianić, go ahead. (From the O.R.: How he, there are many reported before him. ) (The Belief of Radeta, from the place: The order should be respected. Let him say, you'll have your order. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23824	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. They were doing something nervous this morning. It would be good to calm the MPs of the SRS so I could turn around. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23825	Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23826	Gentlemen, you seem to have slept a little worse, so you're a little more nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23827	Allow me, we could've already finished. Explain why he has a word. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23828	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's important to say that the other day... [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23829	Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23830	It's important to say that the other day was a day of tolerance and it's interesting how we mark something like that here in parliament. It is people who are trying in various ways to violate the dignity of this Parliament, to humiliate us as MPs, with the terms and terms they use, trying to transfer us to others. Right from that session that we're talking about here, words like the bandit, the leper, the liar, the thieves, the criminals, the long pipes, socks, the street, the thieving again, etc. Those are your words that are not suitable for this congregation building. He wants people, thinking we're not going to go out to the assembly pay phone to say that they're talking to someone else about how they behave in this House, and by example, they're saying everything. Now we have a situation, from Serbia to Tokyo, from having defeated the whole world, through which you hold a thief, and that all you have left is to hold a thief. Let's say, if someone uses an appropriate term, and you're just using bad terms, bad language, bad communication, then you're trying to with – you're holding someone else who's using a far easier word than I said this time. That's what citizens need to know. They need to know what is a civilized way, what is correctness, what is dignity, what is raising the reputation of this institution, what are MPs G17 plus and other MPs in this assembly, and you take a little account of the words you use for the assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23831	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23832	I didn't know, Mr. Mihailovich, that Albianic could tell you when to give him your word. It's obvious Albianic can do anything. What's this about? When you, Mr. Albianic, give me an inappropriate word from this pay phone, I'll send it to you, too, or I'll give it to you, but I think he said a bad word to each other. I can accept that from you here. I can from any of the 249 MPs sitting here. I don't want it from the minister. This isn't the barn the ministers are coming to. This is sacred. The National Assembly is sacred. Did the MP ever go to the government's meeting to call the ministers of the bastards? Did you remember that somewhere? Have you heard of it? Who is this young man to come into this room and call MPs bastards and you say it's a proper term. You from G17 plus say it's an appropriate term for the MPs of the SRS. Yes, you damn well said, read it, you said it as hypocritically as it looks to you. Shall we talk about thieving? It was not known what a thief is in Serbia until you took over the financial system in the country of Serbia. They were all small and small-time thieves, until you started harassing the state budget until you robbed the banks and brought down our insurance companies, until you made your friends pay billions of dollars. Shall we talk about how mandates are stolen? Why don't you cover your ears with G17 plus. You were the first to enter the theft of your mandate. Now some of you, who were the most honorable citizens of Serbia by yesterday, so you represented them, accuse you of stealing their mandates. Now, some of you, by yesterday as the most honorable, are accused of trying to steal your mandates. Is that so or isn't it? You even forced congregation services to serve counterfeits. Isn't that right? That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Can't have a small group running through Serbia. Were you allowed by Kostunica and others throughout Serbia? Let them let you. It can until justice takes Serbia into its own hands, but here in the Assembly it will not be, Mr Albianic. As of today, the MPs of the SRS are not going to any session of the board. Let me see how you hold board sessions, especially those that matter to you. As of today, until Vojislav Kostunica, on behalf of the government, apologizes for the finance minister's behaviour, the debate will be on the expression used by the finance minister to the SRS lawmakers. This debate to turn to another course – you won't be able to. As of today, it is only about who Mladjan Dinkic, who are MPs of the SRS, and who is the people who sent these messengers to this assembly. It wasn't the people who sent us to praise Dinkic, but to attack him, to shame him, to look for mistakes in his work. We're in opposition, Mr. Albianic. We don't have to bend our shoulders like these other people who vote for your laws. We're not going to ask for membership on boards like these other people who vote for your laws. We're not asking the state for anything. We ask you to leave power, because this is the way you hold power is not recorded in Serbia. This way that a handful of people exercise power and tries to bring Serbia to the level from which radicals hardly can correct and raise it, is high treason. He who is upright among you will not participate in this. Don't be surprised how difficult it is for you to keep your MPs. Maybe no one's offering them anything anymore. Maybe he's offering them a free pass on the street with their heads up. And that is the salvation for you, the messengers of the ruling majority. No one should offer you money, no one should buy you, no one should offer you to go down the street with your heads up, to tell you people that you did not participate in this Serbia collapse, in this thieving, in everything that is happening in Serbia. That's why I'm warning you, reason with your ministers. If they yell at you in a party, if they yell at other government members in government, here at us 80, with your will and steal, no one will yell. No one can yell at us here, especially Mladjan Dinkic. If there is justice and law in Serbia, and it will be when we win, then Mladjan Dinkic may be able to shout, but no one will hear him. He'll be in a very safe place where he can't hear or hear from anyone. You know that very well. (President: Time) I do not threaten Mladjan Dinkic, neither of you who deals with politics, but I threaten all criminals in Serbia. As soon as we win, the criminals will be in prison, depending on the degree of crime they've been dealing with. You're such good crime fighters, two years to go, the hardest criminals are in custody, and in three or four days, those most difficult criminals will be out of jail. You're such good crime fighters. I'm also warning you, the chairman, and I can't wait for the President of the Assembly to solve this matter with the Prime Minister, you've got nothing to solve with us. We will continue to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, we will present a large map of the SRS, the families who sent us and the people who sent us to this National Assembly, because we will not tolerate this from you. More could be said that the government is obliged to put up with the opposition saying things to her, because it enjoys the fruits of power, but that the opposition suffers to be told by the government, that those who are being called criminals about their "stretches and sleeves" in this assembly are dealing with politics. (Vladimir Humane, from the place: You can do us? Of course we can. When I win, I can't wait to hear you say I'm a criminal. (Chairman: Time) You see that's not working. How sweet of me to say Dinkic is a criminal and you don't think I'm a criminal. It's not easy to lie out of your mouth, it's just the truth coming out of your mouth. I specifically call on the SPS parliamentary group, they would tell you all this if they didn't need you. And a thousand times worse things would tell you and think of you a thousand times worse than what they tell us out loud. So think about what we're going to do next.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23833	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. One explanation for the previous order. Always, especially when dialogue is conducted between parliamentary groups, I give priority to the president of the parliamentary group. That's how Mr. Albianic got the word, he got the word and president of your parliamentary group, Tomislav Nikolic. I think I did the right thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23834	Mr. Chairman, for purely formal reasons, I refer to Article 101 and Article 104. The president of the G17 Plus parliamentary group in this National Assembly, which just came out, said a series of false data. First, he couldn't read the stenogram from this session from the day before. He read some of the terms used by SRS MPs on the first item of the agenda, which is the proposal for a transfer law. The debate was closed, and then a united debate began on four draft laws, two of which regulate public debt, which was defended by Mladjan Dinkic, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Serbia. At that moment, for no reason whatsoever caused, for his own known reasons, he timed the incident and the insult to have reason to leave this building and to leave the debate, not to hear criticism, since in a month he was changing his law, the epochal law with which he boasted at the pensioner. That's the first thing the president of the G17 parliamentary group has ever misrepresented. The theme of today's debate, which has, in fact, begun, is whether the finance minister is authorized to use the word that someone is a bastard in this building, in this House of Representatives. According to what the president of the G17 plus-minus parliamentary group, it turns out that the word is allowed, that this is the usual way of communication, where the executive authority addresses the legislative authority. I must remind you that the situation is reversed, the executive authority is making an account for the legislative, legislative control and supervision of the work of the executive authority. I understand that the president of the parliamentary group does not know the Rules of Procedure, that he does not understand politics. It's enough to give him 100 euros and he's going on a show and he's banging everything and everything. That's his problem. He found a way to improve the material position, to take a picture in the front row. Nothing differs from BK TV, which delivers 25 lies in a two-minute report, so neither does it know who is president of the municipal assembly nor who is the president of the municipality or who solves whom, who is asked for resignation, etc. I get it for Karic, with Karic it's all possible, because he's thick, but I don't understand these G17s plus, who don't know they're still in power. Besides, you've brought an attack on the SRS here that someone has said something that isn't true. Long pipes, socks, intrusion, destroying the banking system, that's common-known stuff, there's no need to prove it anymore. There's a need to call the judiciary so it doesn't end. There's witness statements, there's everything and everything, documentation as much as you want. I know it hits you when the truth comes out, but I've warned you before, take care of yourself, properly define yourself according to the expression used by your minister from this pay phone. If you make a precedent, you do evil to yourself. You need to understand that there is a big difference between being a layman and a minister who must be an expert because it represents a state. If in this way it represents a state in negotiations, then it is no wonder that we are so conditioned from abroad by different requirements. So it would be better if representative G17 plus asked his party friend, the president of the National Assembly, who escaped from this session, because he knows what awaits him, that Vojislav Kostunica declares whether or not he has authorised, Mladjan Dinkic to call certain MPs the bastards. If the minister, who is quite rude, uncultured, has made Gaf, then Vojislav Kostunica should apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Believe me, this is a very important thing, not only for future work but also for the status of the National Assembly, since this status is disputed by many. Karic with his backup party – the Democratic Party, and these extra-parliamentary ones, who have turned on you. Don't forget, you've got butter forging laws, stealing mandates and not giving orders. I may have used some of these terms badly, but all the newspapers are full of articles that are just describing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23835	The word is Mr. Nemanja Sarovic, after the replica, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23836	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm used to Mr. Markovic having a hard time seeing me when he's chairing the sessions, but I really didn't expect it from you. Several provisions of the Rules of Procedure have already been broken and both you and Mr Predrag Markovic could see that several representatives, or MPs from the SRS, have come forward for a word, but simply had no basis in the Rules of Procedure to give a word to Mr Albianic of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly regulates the order and says that the MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure is given the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. So, you are, if I can accept and it is possible that it cannot be remembered when a number of MPs appear, you write down nicely, and then in that order you give the right to the MPs who have volunteered to turn after this speaker. The reason I came forward was because he was brutally violated by Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. But what's most tragic is that it's nothing new, which is one tendency, and since you took power and occupied Serbia by force on October 5th, you've practically stopped working on disintegration of institutions. There is not one that you are unable to destroy, there is no institution that once had respect in the Serb people that you will not completely destroy. You did it with Yugoslavia, you broke it up, you did it with the Republic President's institution, you did it with the military, you did it with some church communities, you brought citizens' trust to parliament, you would say, critical lines of 4%. So, those who ask if anyone has recognized themselves when they say that the people's MPs are bastards, we've recognized each other, but not because we're bastards, but because we're people's messengers. No one, and at least Mladjan Dinkic, can come here and insult the MPs and ask not only to declare Vojislav Kostunica, but to declare all the parliamentary groups, so that we can see if you from the DSS consider any of the 248 MPs sitting here, chosen by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be a bastard. We do not accept it, of course, nor will we ever accept it, because we believe it was your obligation to restrain your minister. It is true that much less harm when a MP tells a MP something, even if it is not perhaps the most poor term, but when told by a minister, especially a minister such as Mladjan Dinkic. This destruction of the National Assembly began much earlier and there is no reason for Mladjan Dinkic to respect anyone in this room because he knows that the issue of his trust and his work will never come to the agenda of this National Assembly, and that is something to which you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are bound not only by the Rules of Procedure, but also by Article 93. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He says, "The government and every member of it correspond to the National Assembly for their work. The National Assembly can vote no confidence in the government or the individual member." This people's congregation couldn't do it, this government didn't respond to the National Assembly, and that's why you lived to see Mladjan Dinkic, when he thought of coming to the National Assembly, do it in jeans, in sweaters, so it's not enough for him, but it says, "You who are bearing amendments, who are revealing my lies, you are bastards." We are not bastards, Mladjan Dinkic was just like that with his performance and the creation of the incident to prevent the debate on the laws. You who shout "time," you should know that I've pointed to the injury of several members of the Rules of Procedure here. If you want, I can go out ten times in a row, and you'd better, if you have something to say, what I doubt, go out for this pay phone, and say it's appropriate. So, never you who shout "time" find yourself smart enough and brave enough to get what you have from the pay phone. The only thing you've learned in two years' time is to yell "time". That's right, unfortunately correct. So we're asking all the parliamentary groups to declare whether they want such ministers, whether they accept such ministers, whether they're considered bastards and whether they accept them or anyone else in this room any minister calls them bastards. Until then, we will only talk about what Mladjan Dinkic is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23837	Mr. Dejansky, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23838	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the subject is the same, Minister Mladjan Dinkic and his inappropriate and very rude behaviour and statement he made Thursday for this speaker. We have recognised ourselves in this because, as Mr Sarovic said, we are MPs, and as is known, lately the entire public of Serbia sees that only SRS is doing something else in this assembly. We are the only ones going out and criticising your laws that are destroying everything that is still good in Serbia. It bothered Mr. Minister, who did not come again today and was not there all day Thursday, came in the evening to insult us and to leave the assembly again. He wasn't in jeans, though, for the first time, which is commendable for him. He showed he couldn't stand the criticism. That's why he used a very rude and bad interpretation and told the MPs they were bastards. The SRS spent the whole day, which apparently pissed him off, criticised his law and the distribution of funds to municipalities. We pointed out throughout the day that he favored the municipalities in which G17 plus was in power and we argued and only asked him for an answer why he did so and on what criteria he shared it. Unfortunately, it didn't shake him, he didn't find it appropriate to answer, he managed to call us all bastards. Some of you may feel that way, but in principle, we don't want it to work that way. By calling the bastards, he declared the bastards all the members of the SRS and all the voters of the SRS, and as you know, it's half of Serbia now, and he called all the SRS supporters, even half of the other half that exists, as well as all the honest and honest people, and SRS MPs and the Assembly institution in general, and should be ashamed of him. I have to say that by calling me a bastard, he called my father, who's 30 years old, and my mother, who's a professional merchant, as well as a brother who's a professor, and a woman who gave birth to two children. He called them all bastards. I can't let that happen. I'm 31 years old and 12 years old, and some of you have nothing before they enter parliament. He can't tell anyone he's a bastard. How much wine and brandy I make, shame on you. I was a private company and I work in a company that is one of the best companies in Vrsac. When someone like him tells someone he's a bastard, it's not really a problem. The people know it, knows who Mladjan Dinkic is, knows all of Serbia who Mladjan Dinkic, who you are from G17 plus, everyone knows it, because someone else might have little morals, but I doubt it. That's why we're asking for the Prime Minister's apology and Prime Minister and Parliament's president and we're asking that Mladjan Dinkic never enter here again because he's rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23839	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Penezic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23840	Ladies and gentlemen, I called before Mr. Albianic and protested that he had come out before me, but it's never too late to tell the truth. On Thursday, 8.12.2005, the finance minister used the terms you heard and I can't say that I recognized myself, because I didn't, but I recognized who it refers to - to the SRS parliamentary group, which I belong to with all my heart. So it was about me, too. I think you're all witnesses, whenever I'm out for this pay phone, that I've acted with dignity, cultural, politeness, and that I haven't used any of these terms, not just me, but most of our MPs, either primitive, or the bastard, or the rude, I don't really answer, I speak for myself right now, because the rest of the business will come forward. So, I can't call directly for recognition, but I can do Article 104, and I can call it whole. It's not nice when the minister comes out here and talks to the MPs, and it's not just one, but there's a lot of ministers out there, they go out and talk about it, some talk about the coolants, so you don't warn them. He won't apologize to any of them, but I'd just like to say something about myself. I've been hurt myself, I've never been a bastard or anything. You remember my story: four sons remained orphans from 12 to three years old. I'm the one from three years old. My father went after his grandfather now chairman, whom I value, as well as his struggle against the occupiers. He gave his life honorably and honestly, he didn't betray. I'm not a traitor either. We're all well-behaved, most of my close relatives have finished school and it's semi-hungry or rather half-sen, because we were always full when we were hungry. So, gentlemen, we Serbian radicals are not primitive, neither am I. You treat us a little more culturally, and we'll be better to you. You make better laws and we'll talk less about them. You consult, you don't get us a bunch of laws, then we get into a situation that we can't even warn about. One more thing, here's from this pay phone I can tell you about my honesty. Now it's the actual purchase of MPs. No one came to me, because they know my family has a more expensive cheek, there's no money they can buy and separate me from my SRS parliamentary group. So, I'm warning you, nobody talks to me, they can't buy me, there's no money, there's no price. As far as education is concerned, I will continue, when I come out for this pay phone, to talk about the subject as much as I can. I won't insult anyone, so I ask all those who come out for a pay phone, in front of the ministry or anyone else, not to offend the MPs' group, and Jertada will personally insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23841	Mr. Albianic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23842	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I said something about style and style earlier. It is clear who uses what dictionary in the Serbian Parliament. That's clear to all citizens. What I'm about to say again, the other day was a day of tolerance and human rights, and here's the answer we're giving. Tolerance is patience, it is a correct relationship to listen to the talker, to have an understanding for a different opinion, but it is not for the use of such terms, as the SRS does. It's something I disagree with, with which the G17 plus parliamentary group disagrees, or the ruling coalition majority uses such a thing for the assembly speaker. It is clear, as it is clear, that we cannot reduce the contribution of the National Assembly to this congregation, it is the best and will remain so recorded in history. This congregation council has passed 200 laws so far. It's more than in the last 10 years during all the convocations. I am inclined to say that there will be more than the future functioning of the National Assembly. Also, I hear there are comments that the government hasn't been checked out. The government has been checked six times in this assembly of parliament. Three times when it was voted on the budget, twice on budget rebalancing and once it was a government reconstruction. Six times in this short time, the government had their own check. What is clear is that this congregation assembly has improved certain relationships regardless of the way and the polemics. It is a bad announcement that radicals will not participate in congregation committees. What does controversy now have to do with mutual tolerance in relations with congregation committees and the work of congregation committees? If they have already begun to work and have improved relations with the previous term and assembly of the Assembly, it is logical to continue. I must point out that these congregations and governments are reform, pro-European. All documents talk about it – and a study of feasibility and the start of accession negotiations with the European Union, as well as assessments of the World Bank and other significant institutions on reforms carried out in our country. It is hardly clear to everyone in Serbia that this assembly has contributed to our country's progress, that we have plotted a European path, done a great deal, and we do not need this kind of controversy, this way of working to cloud the essence behind which we all hope to stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23843	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23844	I have two things to tell you. First of all, this isn't about mutual relations, it's not about the relationship between MPs, it can be about the way it is. This is about the minister's relationship to the MPs. Don't waste your time. This isn't a conflict, Mr. Albianic, between you and me. It is indirect, because you represent a bad option. Why are you defending the minister, you won't even be here to say whether he's wrong or not, you're moving the ball to someone else's yard. Defend the minister who called the MPs "barabbas". Is this congregation and this government successful, did we get a positive grade and start negotiations, and that's why you call us bastards? God forbid you were admitted into the European Union, you'd hang us here in the Assembly. Whether you seek out your success immediately on the opposition, whether you're so strong or if someone told you you're good, you passed 200 laws, now let's tell the opposition whatever we want. There's an opposition of holiness everywhere, there's a People's Messenger of the Holy, for every minister in the world. There are much smaller affairs in which governments are much better. I can't let the minister go into the O.R. and tell the MPs that the bastards, they can't, they won't even be when you're in the opposition if you're in parliament. It looks like you're meant to be in power, you're not meant to be here. You're not in parliament unless you're in power. It can only be introduced by someone who wants to offer you power. Mr. Albianic, don't, while you're a folk MP, defend the principle that anyone can come in here and insult the MPs. You can object there to the press when they attack the Assembly, both justifiably and unjustly, then defend the Assembly and MPs. When the minister attacks the MPs, you join him, by not attacking him, but by defending him. Defend the minister who told those who would criticize him. Because, don't forget, the debate on this bill has just been opened by the minister. In the opening statement, he said at the end of the opening exhibition – he will not look back at the remarks of the bastards. He expects the bastards to criticize him for the bill, and he got out of this room peacefully. He left you to defend him. Why is that? Let him come here, let him say - yes, I said you're bastards, you deserve it, okay. Or to say - I'm sorry, I used a bad expression, I didn't mean it about you. You really piss me off when you're criticizing me, but I shouldn't have told you that. In a thousand ways, Kostunica and Mladjan Dinkic can be removed, and I am telling you, tell Kostunica that this will not be removed. There's no reason why we won't go all the way against this government after what you've done to us. If anyone was trying to make peace in Serbia, if anyone was trying to be political styles, that everything we're trying to do together has success, even though we're in opposition, it was me. What brought back the tolerance of the SRS? By attacking her MPs. You've remembered well, and from now on, you're holding on well, and from now on things are completely changing, so you know. And tell Vojislav Kostunica: this is what Mladjan Dinkic and those who defend him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23845	One moment, Gordana Pop-Lazic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23846	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Gordana Pop-Lazic, I'm almost 50 years old, three children, good students and students, and I didn't deserve anyone to call me "barabic," especially Mr. Dinkic. Here, and at this point I am observant and I say – Mr Dinkić, although he certainly does not deserve it. For those who do not have so much political talent and who do not know the basic rules of political action, it is possible for them to have such failures, to think that they are god-given, that they are above all and that they come to parliament and thus insult the MPs. We have recognized each other, but in this way we defend the reputation of all MPs, no matter what political options they are from. We've had various cases in this House -- that they've made it impossible for us to talk, to turn off our microphones, to take us out of the pay phone, from the bench, to break our hands, to hurt us. But that was between the MPs and that's what's possible and allowed. What is certainly impossible and that no one in their right mind can accept here in parliament, is that a minister who has been elected here by the assembly majority and who can be replaced by the assembly majority, and that the MPs call the bastards. If we told him he was a bastard, which he certainly is, it's normal -- we have arguments, we're just passing on what we hear from Serbian citizens whose views we represent, it's not offensive. He can come out and say, "It's not true, you're deluded, it doesn't stand like that, I'm not a National Savings Bank like this, I haven't shut down so many banks, I haven't done what you're putting on my burden in the People's Bank." But he can't tell us that, because we represent some voters and some citizens of Serbia. Insulting us, insulting them, all those who voted for us and all 350,000 members of the SRS. Until our ministers learn it, it means they're not mature enough to be in such important state functions. You're afraid that we're not cultural enough, that we're nice enough, how it's going to evaluate the European Union, how it's going to get us there. Here, Mr. Albianić said, "We are pro-European-oriented, I am not defending, and we are pro-European-oriented." But we are also pro-Serbian-oriented, and I would like to hear only once Mr Albianic say, "I am pro-Serbian-oriented, that he thinks little of our national interests and that we fit into all other integrations." When I say - Mr. Albianic, I mean the G17 plus, the policy they represent, maybe there are exceptions between you, I see, you're tearing up, but well, that's your internal problem, as well as the problem of other political groups, that's clear. We're coherent. As you can see in this attitude, we will not give up on going out for this pay phone until we learn our senses, not just this minister, but every next 30 years, that he remembers this session and that he never thinks of coming to the Assembly and insulting the MPs. He has to endure all the blows he gets here, he has to defend himself, but he mustn't insult us, especially with words like that. It's not about personal insults, though we're experiencing them and so, but it's an insult to that electoral body that votes for the SRS. Here we are just defending the interests of Serbian citizens who accept the policy of the SRS, as well as of all citizens. Therefore, Mr Dinkic will no longer be allowed into this assembly hall, I guarantee you, not only by these laws, but never again. This is the beginning of the end of Kostunica's government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23847	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Plassic-Stojanovic. (Glass from the O.R.: Why over the line? It's not over the line. Believe me, I'm trying to follow order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23848	Thank you. I really waited patiently for my turn. I don't think they're at the point where I came across the line, but you weren't looking that way. Of course, I didn't get a word in line. I called to say what I think about what's going on here today. Of course, as usual, I think we should discuss what's on the agenda and deal with the laws. Today on the agenda we have really serious laws. As for the debate that is being held here, I agree with many colleagues to a large extent. You know I've always stood up for not using ugly words for this pay phone and not using street jargon. That's what I was talking about the day before, which is what this is about. But I do not agree on one thing – I believe that the dignity of the congregation depends on us sitting in this congregation. I believe that the dignity of the congregation is protected, above all, by us. Someone on the side may come and insult the congregation, but what's basic is that we don't insult ourselves. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's ask ourselves how many times we've offended ourselves by insulting this congregation, by using each other, what you're trying to justify, very ugly words to insult each other. I really can't count how many times you've been, I was initially amazed, I have to admit, and in two years I haven't learned to get used to being called a thief, a criminal, and all sorts of other expressions that are absolutely unsuitable. I don't think we're here today to listen to our biographies, each of us would have anything to say about his biography, and I certainly don't believe any of us in the Assembly, and there are 250 of us, and not 248, we can't say that we are any of those words that are often used here. I'm really not gonna use them to quote them. I have a proposal to do a back-up analysis of the month, two, three, six months, two years, how many times did someone from the parliamentary group take advantage of what words in the assembly. Then we'll see exactly how many times the MP group has used so-called. Ugly words, as children call them, which are really ugly words. So that's my suggestion. If you are truly determined to continue in this direction, I will make sure that I find it within the next few days. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You have time. () Of course, we have a lot of time, all of us, but citizens don’t have that much time to deal with things like this. My suggestion is to do other things. But we can certainly deal with this. So, as far as the Parliament's dignity is concerned, as far as the insults are concerned, I think there are some parties ahead and the stenograms show. So it is not justified to call your colleagues such names. Right now, in an attempt to defend a principle, you have offended a fellow Albianic, and this is not the first time, you have done it countless times. I find that extremely incorrect – both human and collegiate is incorrect. Often you state, you even used it to give us MPs in this context, buy mandates, sell mandates and everything else, don't say that. He's not our only member of Parliament who's lost two MPs, and you've lost two MPs. I think you and I have taken a unique stand on this matter. Therefore, parliamentary mandates are neither for sale or for sale. The parliamentary mandates are something where it also defends the dignity of the Assembly and defends the electoral will of citizens. When you talk about citizens having no confidence in the Assembly, the Assembly – that is all of us, the Assembly and you. I absolutely can't agree with the assessment and I don't know where it was found that only 4% of citizens have confidence in the Assembly. And then where's your 50+25, or 75%, that supports you? Do they trust what you're doing here? So, I think we're all doing a very serious job here together. I was preparing to talk seriously today about serious laws dealing with matters that are particularly important for this country. I was preparing to talk a little bit about the situation of children in Serbia, poor children, the position of persons with disabilities and how we can all be of assistance to these groups together. That, ladies and gentlemen, is our job and that's what citizens expect of us. I call upon you, on behalf of those people who are interested in these laws being passed, to deal with laws, not our personal biographys and biographies or political debates. We've got stands, we've got places to deal with, so you can call us whatever you want. But here in the Assembly today, we need to deal with amendments to social protection laws, laws on supporting families with children, laws that are here on the agenda, and that are affecting the most vulnerable groups in this country, the poorest and most vulnerable in this country. They may expect to hear what we say about them and not expect to hear what we say about each other. I'm inviting you back to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23849	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23850	Do you really think all those families today expect the bastards to discuss them? Mrs Plassic, that's the point - to determine first, whether we are for the government of the bastards. If we, the MPs of the SRS, are for the government of the bastards, then the people should not allow us to discuss his biggest problems. That's the problem. Don't twist the subject, it's hypocritical. It's hypocritical that you're speaking from this pay phone right now. If you could convince me, ever since you rule the state, if your laws had brought a better life to the citizens, I could trust you. But Serbia was ruled by absolute poverty, hopelessness. No one expects tomorrow with any hope, only you have the hope of being in the EU in 15 years. That hope is all in your life. Do you see the people around you? What population to join the EU with? With goals and barefoot? No one has a job in Serbia, only those who work in state or public enterprises. Privatisation was used to shut down factories, to increase the number of unemployed. You've imposed taxes on what -- consumption. Run to open shops built by foreigners in Serbia, as it will be taxed. And who's gonna make money to go to that store to buy something? We want to be clear, I don't want to sit with you in the assembly if I'm a bastard to you. I don't want to spoil your reputation. You sit here in the front row, you 18-20, as long as you're around, you're the elite of this society, you're the cream, you're the only one who knows what it takes. Sit here and sort things out on your own. Tell the people, through the President of the Constitutional Court, 18 is enough from the elite to solve, and these bastards, no matter what voices they have, they're bastards and they won't be in the National Assembly, no one will ask them anything. Don't turn the subject around. The Minister changes every day, the Prime Minister every day. The MP has a mandate from the people. You must know that and understand, I teach you, you will be in opposition. Now I'm fighting for your rights. Imagine a power that would haunt you just because you're in opposition, and you'll be a small opposition party. I can't imagine you have 80 MPs and being in opposition. You're not in opposition at 15. How much? Thirty. You're not in opposition at 30. Imagine you have 80 MPs and you're in opposition and someone says, "You don't matter, you're bastards." We're bastards for Young Dinkic. Now you're turning the subject to important laws that will bring good to children. Come on now, convince us it's your wish. Yeah, I know, we'll all go for a polygraph to tell you exactly what our wishes are and see what a polygraph would say to you. It doesn't get out of this by telling us what law was on the agenda, so say it to the Minister. Minister, you've ruined our agenda law, because you've called the MPs of the SRS bastards. MPs who will criticize him. He went out, sang his songs and left the O.R. and left you to talk about important laws, to celebrate the important laws, which the minister who considers ambassadors is a bastard. He can do it at home, he can do it in your offices, he can't do it in the National Assembly, he can't even tell the government that they're bastards. If you accept a subjective relationship with ministers, I do not accept it. I wouldn't accept it if my ministers were in the government, and I was an MP. He'd be smoking. He wouldn't go into the O.R. anymore, because he's embarrassing your party. What are you -- that you are, you are a political party that has entered parliament. You sent your most representative to the government, the most representative is the one who calls MPs the bastards because you didn't have a better one. Then what kind of ministers would you be, what could I expect from you, Mrs. Plassic, from this pay phone that you're a minister, if he told me better than you that I'm a bastard. What could I expect from you?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23851	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23852	That's why we're gonna clean this up. We're not asking for the minister's resignation, it's not ours. We asked for his resignation through the government's resignation because you've messed up in many segments and many spheres of social life. We are not interested in who Kostunica will suffer as his coalition partner. All that matters to us is that he doesn't insult us here. Let him make whatever law He wills, if you vote, you will vote, and if you will not, you will vote. Don't let him insult us here, because that's not why we're here. We were not sent here by the people to be insulted by the ministers you choose. He didn't just call SRS MPs, they know some of whom he called and they know some of whom you think, because the number of people that Mladjan Dinkic doesn't appreciate at all is huge. There are people in your parliamentary group that Mladjan Dinkic does not appreciate at all and would like to say all of this – the one Mladjan Dinkic who insults the MPs. There's another one who doesn't insult and you never know, when you meet him in the morning, with whom you are dealing with Mladjan Dinkic. It happened on the last working day of last week that Mladjan Dinkic came in, and if someone else had come in, he might not have said it. You never know who you're dealing with. Tell him to at least try to eliminate one from himself, or good or bad. One has to be eliminated, that's a little off, that's not a big deal. They can tie him up, if he's stronger and the other one, the one who insults the messengers of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23853	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23854	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on Thursday at the end of the session, after Mladjan Dinkic said that the MPs of the SRS were bastards and primitives, trying to point to the citizens and, above all, to the pensioners, why he cheated on them and why he did not say that the bastards and recipients of those of the IMF, who sat across from him in the negotiation process about so-called. To the last tranche, he had no other way to react, for the simple reason that the incident situations began much earlier. This culminated 15 days ago, when, in the debate on the Banks Act, he began to insult a wonderful lady, an economics expert, unlike him who did not, members of her family and to engage in a further story with SRS MPs, to which his colleague Sarovic reacted. It went on indefinitely and we just thought that maybe for a little while he came to his senses and that this second one, as Mr. Nikolic said, Mladjan Dinkic prevailed in it, when what we're saying at 11.00 p.m. in jeans and in a sweater came here and watched, like, what we're talking about, and why we're even criticising his law. He thus showed us that he is disdaining both the National Assembly and the MPs, because style and style, not only of clothing, but of speech and of how he behaves clearly about the fact that Serbian citizens, above all, are nasty to him, and that he is disgusted with his own people. How else can I explain this, when we are representatives of Serbian citizens in the highest number and God will give us, as Mr Nikolic himself said yesterday in his interview, to get to 60%, eliminate everything and that we do not need any coalition partners to rule. So, to rule in this way as Kostunica does, who has visited the National Assembly several times in situations where resolutions were voted, when there was a change in ministers and when we told him that the coalition was collected from the end and the rope, with all Dinkic, from whom the biggest problem for the citizens of Serbia, was the cause of the general unfortunate situation in which the citizens were located, and he did not want to listen. It is impossible for the past three days, Vojislav Kostunica, as prime minister and as a proponent of such an unrequited minister, has not read the SRS statement. It's just impossible, if someone hadn't told him: listen, you're the prime minister, Mladjan Dinkic came to the Assembly and said to honest and honest, honest, high-moral people -- Serbian radicals, and thus told the indirect and members of our families that we're bastards, that we're primitives, and at the moment when we didn't even start talking about why the laws on the agenda don't work out. What do you expect from us? For three years, the DOS has been beating and beating us, pulling and punishing and leading some MPs and bringing them out the next day, adjudicating the will of citizens, recruiting MPs, not giving us the opportunity to submit proposals, which were in line with both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. You now expect, as well as your president, namely the first among the equals, Markovic, as he hypocritically wants to introduce himself, who is washing his hands because Mladjan Dinkic, his Mladjan Dinkic, from his political party, from yours, who is trying to minimize the reputation and ratings of Serbian radicals, and you know that in the next election, such a man, like you along with them, have absolutely no chance of ruling or not ruling in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23855	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23856	On Thursday, I told him, when I reacted, that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I call upon, Article 104, said MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. Of course, that applies to the participants in the session, to the ministers, and therefore to him, but I am confident that he will never be a Parliamentarian, so he doesn't know that. He does not know that the most legislative body is sacred, which he is to enter as a government official, to say what he has, to come back, to sit in the front row, and to listen all the time, from the beginning to the end, to what it is and what it is said. If Mladjan Dinkic told us that we are bastards and primitives, he can tell Vojislav Kostunica today, not blinking. Maybe that's what he told him directly or indirectly or one of you, so you've got to sit down and keep your mouth shut. Some of you are silent because they know that they will never be MPs again, that their parties have failed, that they have no rating, others because of the boards of directors, the third because they are beautifully gardening around official flats who knows where, use every possible privilege, huge compensation in administrative, supervisory and who knows what committees. You expect us, from honest and honest people, as we have always been, and this is how we have treated our people since we were present in the National Assembly, to suffer such a minister. We won't. Be assured that although it is important to explain to the pensioners, they know it and will see with the first pension check how Dinkic cheated on them. That's why it took the IMF lady sitting across from him to say she's a bastard and a receiver, not to insult us who protect citizens' interests. According to that people's -- "we're going to have a daughter yet," but rest assured, we are the strongest parliamentary party, at any moment 80 SRS MPs on anyone, not wrong us, but what offends the dignity of all Serbian citizens, there are ways and ways to react. We will do this, but we demand it once again; for two hours we have been talking about it, the problem with Dinkic lasts much longer, and has escalated on Thursday; from Kostunica, the government and Predrag Markovic to return to the post of president and to apologize, so that the SRS MPs across the border, I am convinced, 50% of the voters, knew that at least some respect and dignity in the National Assembly would return. Otherwise, we'll continue like this, and you'll see what you'll do with your minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23857	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23858	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Nikola Todorovic, by chance, precisely 58 years ago today, I was born in a village under Ozren, around Doboj, as the sixth child in the family of Father Todor and Mother Zorka. After that, two other young people were born, so, from an eight-member family. I came to Serbia in 1967, started working, finished college in Belgrade, did business in the economy, I was still president of several sports and social organisations, associations of citizens. I've been dealing with politics since the introduction of a multi-party system. I knew then that I would choose society, society of the best – the society of Serbian radicals: Tom Nikolic, princess Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Verice Radete, Moma Marković, Sulejman Spaha, Zankov, my friend Branko Rankovic from Koceljevjev, and not to list everything. I want to remind you that it is a good society, the best society of Serbian radicals, that they deserve the trust of the citizens. After this performance, Minister Dinkic, just to remind you that he often has the habit of saying, "I don't respect the Parliament's decisions, I will introduce myself to the Assembly of Temporary Measures, I won't pay the MPs, I can do whatever I want." His relationship as Minister to the Assembly is extremely negative and wrong. We've told you that more than once. You yourself are aware of the facts, but you are powerless to point out anything to Mr Dinkic. He turned away from you both as a party and from the government of Vojislav Kostunica. You can't control him. There is no political option in Serbia that does not notice and does not say that to Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. It's just that he's powerless. Is someone in the IMF holding it? He just kidnapped himself and did what he wanted. It's very difficult with such a minister to polish. If the distinguished ladies from the SRS come out and criticise his bill with a lot of arguments and he assesses it that way, then there's no dialogue. I'll tell you what I know from where I live, Majdanpek, Timočka krajina, where, after our speeches in the Assembly; and you have to admit that only we are talking about bill proposals, rarely anyone from the parliamentary group who supports this government comes out to engage in this debate, to make other arguments compared to ours; an increasing number of people approach and say: you are the only ones left, and ask to join the SRS. They love Tomislav Nikolic, both Natasa Jovanovic and Krasic, who also comes out academically, professorically, every bill explains. They understand that and know who they have in the congregation, whom they trust, whom they respect. Do not allow a representative of the government to treat the congregation in this way and thus humiliate the congregation. So please, all the criticisms that we refer to the bill's proposal do not apply to you as MPs in a group that supports the government. We're trying to make our arguments that the proposal is bad or it can be better, and it's yours to support it and accept it. It's a rare dialogue. What is wrong now and because of this Rules of Procedure and because of the relationship between a government-supported parliamentary group, is an impression and a real impression is being confirmed in the people, that nothing serious is happening in this assembly, that everything has been resolved in some parliamentary club or in the government itself, that the debate, which is being held here, is useless, except that citizens find out that some draft law is being discussed in the Assembly and thus find out that this assembly is passing laws, which the citizens would not even know that there are no applications for discussion and our discussions on some draft laws. That's why it's very pleasant when someone on this side comes forward for a word and makes some arguments that are different from the arguments that we make on certain drafts of the law. I must admit that I also began to respect Mr Aligrudic, the Prophetic and this gentleman, because they respect Mr Tom Nikolic when he comes out, and I see with respect and respect for Tommy Nikolic, because he deserves it. No one can call a parliamentary group led by Mr. Toma Nikolic to the barbarians or the primitives. That's not allowed. It's not true and it's not acceptable for anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23859	The People's Messenger of Milivoje Vukovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23860	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Serbian radicals are not bastards but honest and honest citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens can see who defends their interests and who regularly represents them in this high house. We regularly participate in the work of the congregation and actively. Every law is subject to a large number of amendments, because all the bill's proposals are flawed, and in this way we try to fix them as much as possible. That's why we resent each other, and then some musician comes to say that we, Serbian radicals, are bastards. Dear People's MPs, we from the Serbian Radical Party really cannot get over it and therefore we ask the president of the Assembly to ask the "Japanese" to apologize to us. It is likely that Karic's syndrome changed to him after the world's travels in the far east. We, the Serbian radicals, drew attention to him not to underestimate the National Assembly and not to come to the Assembly in jeans, and he went on to show his incompetence and to call the MPs of the barbarians. We felt that he was preparing something, because he started coming to the congregation with bags, as if he wanted to tell the people indirectly that his blue envelopes were thin in his corruption and that from now on he was going to the bags. I feel underrated and offended, and also offended by my Machvani, who elected me legally as their representative in the election. By the way, I'm the prime minister of Dr. Milivove Vukovic and I'm 22 years old, and I can't let a musician tell me I'm a "barb." Indeed, it offends all the People's Messengers, especially us from the only opposition party. That musician from the stage in his performances can act like that and mention all sorts of expressions, but this is the National Assembly. Gentlemen of the People, he insulted all of us, and if you have to put up with him, we don't have to. Some honest and upright man is found among you, and he will stand up to him, and then he will be evicted from the party. There's also the latest example in your party, where my colleague, by profession, has experienced that fate. That is why we, Serbian radicals, are asking the Prime Minister to apologize on behalf of the minister, or personally, to all MPs for their insult.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23861	The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Homan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23862	I reluctantly join this debate, which takes place in the Rules of Procedure, although no one mentions any member of the Rules of Procedure. Let me say, Article 104. Rules of Procedure. (The Belief of Radet, from the place, where were you? I know where I am, but I don't know where you've been. Don't interrupt me, Mrs. Radet. I want to say one thing, let's see what happened the day this happened. (The Belief of Radet, from the place, where were you? I wasn't in Livn. I was in Belgrade on October 5th, if that's what you mean. So, the day it happened, which is now being debated, Mr. Mircic spoke before Mr. Dinkic and then mentioned many inappropriate words, he said the finance minister was a bandit, a villain and a liar, and the lady who now killed herself to interrupt me, and she can't, she said that the recipient, the criminal and the thief. After all that, we're not offended here, because we're used to hearing things from you two years from now. The finance minister may have been offended and responded as he replied. Why did you recognize yourself that's your problem. If he said he didn't want to mess with the bastards, I don't know why you two recognized each other. The other thing I'd like to mention here is that really after two years in this House, speaking and arguing with you, listening to what you're saying here and what words and expressions you're using, and how insulting you are; it's not true that you're only insulting ministers, insulting MPs; not to mention what you've said for these two years, we've been a little overruled by these insults, but I invite you to continue. Why? Because you're going to show the citizens of Serbia, if they don't already know who you are and what you really are, because that's your political marketing. Don't say this shit. That's what you're saying, because you think it's your best political marketing, that by mentioning such words and putting such indifference here, you use a pay phone for the most terrible speech of hate, malice, cheap humor, accusing everyone and everyone of something other than yourself and your helpers. It is your system of work here and thus you show the citizens of Serbia that you really think they are, so they will say – these radicals speak well, we are like them and we will vote for them. You are really the last to offend us here, but that's why you insult the citizens of Serbia, you show them that you think that you are raising them in public with an unculture because you think they are uncultural. Serbian citizens are not rude, Serbian citizens will recognize who this is really about. Don't threaten from this pay phone that you're going to do this, that you're going to do that. You say you can say everything you hear on the street, what it says about us and our ministers. Mrs. Pop-Lazic said she could say anything she heard on the street here. Don't let us start by saying everything we hear on the street about you. Let's not talk, not just hear it on the street, but see which one of the MPs is all called for immunity for some crimes, so let's see how many of your deputies are in it and how many of ours. Don't talk about everything and don't threaten it, but if you have something to say, say it. I see you've said everything. Maybe someone else will come out and introduce himself. You're so smart, no one's gonna say anything after you. I'm glad you think I am, I don't think you are. Really try to understand Serbian citizens as people who have a little more culture than you do and try to conquer the electorate in a slightly more cultural and polite way, and like this, I hope and I'm sure you won't succeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23863	The word has a folk MP, Nenad Mitrovica, then Milorad Mircic will receive the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At a session, held on December 8th, Minister Dinkic called us SRS MPs the bastards. He said he wouldn't look back on our objections to the laws, that we were primitive people and bastards. All the laws that Minister Dinkic proposes on behalf of the government, only MPs from the SRS come out and point out to the minister and the government that these laws are not good and that these laws should be corrected. If Minister Dinkic thought that because we're going out and saying the laws aren't good, that's why he should call us bastards, that's not right. I must say my name is Nenad Mitrovic, asking your fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia if it is little to live in Bujanovac and what my head and head of my family is constantly hanging in a sack of terrorists, but should also be called a bastard by Minister Dinkic. I ask Prime Minister Kostunica's apology that an insult brought by a member of his cabinet, Mladjan Dinkic, is publicly apologized to the SRS lawmakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23865	National MP Milorad Mircic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23866	In the recent history of multi-party parliamentaryism, things were happening in the Assembly, that Serbian radicals were arresting us, that they were taking off our immunity overnight, that they were taking us to prisons, preparing us for prison cells, threatening us, even threatening members of our family, but what happens after the five-octobarian revolution literally exceeds every measure. As soon as the five-eyed revolution in this hall, the congregation home, formed so-called. The new democratic majority was clear to all that their primary goal and task was to abolish the SRS after the latter. Everything else was irrelevant. They were not interested in how the people lived in Serbia, or how they would eventually find an opportunity to help these citizens, they were not interested in the state of the economy, agriculture, or how it should be done and how the government and this state run it. They were only interested in promoting the SRS and individual Serbian radicals as much as possible. You've seen what they've done, what means they've been used. In the end, they had to accept, and some are here individually in this assembly, that this struggle and such a political struggle against the SRS had to suffer a collapse. But the truth is, it should be said that whenever an SRS is attacked, it defends itself by all means. We, the Serbian radicals, from this pay phone in a political struggle when we feel that someone is attacking us, that the SRS is being molested, used by all illegal means, we use the usual parliamentary means and ways to oppose those who have such a desire. There were hard words here. They spoke to each other all sorts of things, called all kinds of names, presented truths, half-truths, but that's all within the framework of parliamentary life. It's all between MPs and individual parliamentary groups. In recent history, it has never happened that a minister or any member of the government takes the right to call MPs bastards and primitives. Even what you're saying, that regime of Slobodan Milosevic that was so cruel, his ministers did not take for granted, nor did they engage in qualified MPs in one way or another. HAVE accepted all criticisms and discussions of MPs, come out as members of the government and have in most cases explained the law, which they were proposing. The best example is, among other things, if you want to know the involvement of the SRS in the government. This is where the opposition MPs were present. No SRS minister should have thought for a moment that he was dealing with MPs, especially opposition MPs in a way that was not appropriate. We attended the situation here when the minister, proposing the law, clearly deceived the public and us MPs, providing data that increased funds for the municipality and the height of 9%. With a simple calculation, not knowing a lot of economics, math, a man can come up with data, that's a lot less. He provided information relating to the grant of funds to municipalities where the public and us MPs were also deceived. If something that is not true by the MPs is said to be a lie, then we MPs can delude, and we Serbian radicals don't mind that the MPs of his parliamentary group come with us and use words that are not appropriate. But to get out the minister and to get this current out of his party, to call us bastards and primitives, and they confirm that by stating that they are certain that the SRS was created in some magical way, by state institutions, or as they say, by the DB. I guess 15 years is enough time for everyone to check and make sure it's a lie. But we don't get angry when colleagues, due to lack of arguments, bring out such a lie, but we can't let the precedent, which for the second time is repeated by the finance minister, become a rule of conduct for government members. Not that we are not going to allow it, but whoever is the most responsible, the President of Parliament, should prevent it, he is the most responsible. As he kicked him out because of the jeans, this is a serious offense, this is not about dress, appearance, it's not about what you would say to the modern dictionary, a question of insult to all those who voted for the SRS, all those citizens who are increasingly convinced and convinced that Serbia is sinking thanks to Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23867	The President of the National Assembly, Mr Predrag Markovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23868	Mr. Vice President, I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, of course, Article 104, MPs are obliged to address each other with respect. That's something I'm up for, and I heard, working upstairs in the Cabinette, the fact that the president of the Parliament ran away. So, it is a disrespect of all MPs, because the president of the assembly has never escaped from anything. It's past those times when the president of the assembly can't even come down for 20 hours. I hope those times have passed thanks to all of you and the way this congregation tries to work. Of course, he didn't run away on a vacation, on Saturdays, on Sundays, and he wouldn't run away doing his job, but of course he only does it based on facts. In Serbia, we tend to forget what happened three days ago, and it is politically okay for people to argue about it. The President of the Assembly should not worry about what people say, but about what the Rules of Procedure determines how to behave, and in relation to that, either the President or the one who replaces him, which is one of the vice-presidents, not to be confused, these are the people who have been elected by the entire Assembly, who have been paid for that difference, and they are also obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure. Before party responsibility, I will always insist on personal responsibility as I have so far. That's why many of you talk to me most normally when they need something, because I've been chosen here for most of it. Milorad Mircic from the scene, do you have any money? I've got Mr. Mircic, a little something, but I don't think that's enough for you. Depends on what you need it for, 1,260. If it is, I'd be happy to help you as always. On Thursday, and this is what we're talking about, when I didn't run the Assembly, because all MPs who know the Rules of Procedure and know what the Assembly president's obligations are, know that the least part of the obligations is just the presidency. There's a whole series of other obligations. I was informed, when I came down to lead the session, by one MP, and I'll quote to you, that MP says, "Mr. President, you are not present, but I must inform you and warn you... ". So I can quote you something that you can check on the same stenogram. So, compared to that, I promised: "Yes, we'll check by stenogram whether it happened and if it's visible from the stenogram, I'll take appropriate measures, as always." I checked the stenogram, the fact is that the terms used are those for which when I chair, as a rule I warn the speakers, whether they are MPs or not. The chairman, Mr Angelkovic, called on two MPs to draw attention that the speaker was not warning the speakers, and it was a MP who had previously been warned twice during the afternoon by the president of the assembly not to throw up and give him a warning in this regard. Afterwards, he spoke, opening the agenda, one minister and said, "It is certain that everyone would like pensions to be even bigger; I pray that this time does not count; however, what is certainly the most vulnerable pensioners are protected, it will certainly be more said by Mr Lalovic in the law that this assembly adopted." He also ended up saying, "The other way we're going to use... ", and so on, explaining the law, "I'm sure most MPs in the National Assembly will support the bill and I urge you to vote for it. "After that came a great sentence that said, "This time I don't want to look back on the remarks of those who are... ", and so on, not for any moment mentioning, I do not use such words, please, for this speaker, you can all look at the stenogram, but I would not even quote, within, you are right, I can quote at the request of the MPs: "This time I do not want to refer to the remarks of those who are primitive, who are bastards and who have given themselves the right to judge themselves. History will judge us all. Unlike some who have an unclean conscience, my conscience is completely clean. I'm not afraid of any court, since I know what I've been doing, those who have made these debts, which we are now at peace, should be ashamed of them, let alone take the right to use the words they've spoken. But with bastards and primitive people, I don't fight." That's what the stenogram says. So, it is difficult to conclude that it refers to the MPs of the people, and especially, because an MP immediately called, it is MP Zoran Krasic, who said, "I would point you to article 101 and 104... ", apparently speaking to the minister, right, no one here is, excuse me, not the minister, currently there was the president of the assembly, you're right. I'll quote, "Mr. Markovic, you weren't there, you're probably not in the process with all the details, this isn't a replica," and that's what the president says to him: "You've been in touch with the Rules of Procedure, I get it, here you go." Further, Zoran Krasic: "In an insult, the replica was an insult, and I am a well-mannered man, and I have no intention of insulting anyone, which I confirm. I'd point out to you to Articles 101 and 104, no one's here with silk ears, so it's immune to any use of any word. However, it is not good when he who represents the state in the National Assembly where there is no Bogoljub Karic, finds Bogoljub Karic. That's why I told you, so it's not an insult. I understood very precisely what Mr Dinkic meant. ", that's what Mr. Krasic says. He was referring to Bogoljub Karic, Boris Tadic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Bozidar Djelic, but it is not good to hear him tell us because we share that opinion with him. We share an opinion with Mr Dinkic that it's about people like that, and then move on. So, "That, Mr. Dinkic, you can go free on some TV show with written submissions, etc," for God's sake, I'm finishing that quote. Addressing Minister Dinkic, by Mr Krasic, who says, "I understand that you are unhappy that Bogoljub Karic has not yet been arrested, believe me, I am also dissatisfied, perhaps even more dissatisfied than you." In any case, in the replica he gave, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, reporting, not a replica, but according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic in no way thought, of course, that all happens immediately after the presentation, but I would not burden anyone to read this, please, I respect the fact that all MPs are able to check the stenogram. The president, when he is not present, cannot affect the course of the session, except as he has promised, to check the stenogram and take adequate measures against it. The president will certainly take adequate measures and that is not at all controversial. Also, as everyone knows, I am not overshadowed by the government, by any government, because I fear whenever someone wants to endanger parliamentary democracy, because parliament is the one who can do something. Voting a law that allows pensioners, and the most threatened, to immediately give money, parliament will allow it, not the government, parliament. In the meantime, parliament will decide according to political interests, and I really don't get involved, whether it will speed up to do so immediately or slow down. I have no intention of influencing and asking that no one invites me to do the opposite of the law. I'll continue as I've done so far by law. I thank you for this time, and I thank you for the tolerance of speakers, so those who spoke, and many of them hurt MPs from both positions and opposition. I'm asking you to take care of that by estimating all your tolerance. Mr. Mikhailovich, thank you very much. I'll keep doing the job I have to do in the meantime, and I thank you for your willingness to replace me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23869	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23870	As usual, we have heard many sentences from Mr. Markovic, a calm tone through his beard, but Mr. Markovic, you have not answered the main question – did Mladjan Dinkic insult the MPs of the SRS or not? That's one thing. I say he was offended, because we are the only ones here criticizing him, days before that we criticized him by the budget, he expected us to criticise him, and by this bill, he was thinking of us, Mr. President, and that's why I'm interested, how do you think you're taking action when you get to know the stenogram. Here, I'm the victim of such a measure. 40 days after the incident in the Serbian Parliament, the one that took action suggested that I be excluded from the session here. So, I took part in the incident, that session was over, two other extraordinary sessions were held, it started regularly, it came to the end of the regular session, and then someone thought they should take action now, and he said, because of what happened 40 days ago, I suggest that I exclude Tomislav Nikolic from the session, they raise their hands and, after 40 days, secure order and peace at the session by excluding Tomislav Nikolic. So, Mr. President, what anyone who runs the session is taking is the measures taken by the President of the Assembly. After that, you have no right to any additional measures. It was simply that you were replaced by probably Angelkovic, his measures being taken by the President of the Assembly. You should've warned the minister, your position I've heard here now, you're not in the minister's words for him to apologize, what we're looking for. Otherwise, if you had found a cause, you would have said it clearly and openly here, you are justifying the minister by not pointing to what our first speaker pointed to after that by Verica Radet, Zoran Krasic in the second announcement. You're quoting parts of the stenogram that you've underlined as acceptable to you in this debate, you won't go all the way with a stenogram, and I'm telling you, I respect your desire to make your point here. I didn't hear him. Until I hear the stance of Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, whether Mladjan Dinkic represented him in the words he used on that day, we will continue after this, and the pensioners will wait a day or two, because it is not a one-time payment, God of health, you drag it well, as "Alaib's straw", it will probably go through the National Savings Bank, so for Jelasic it will be a couple for another little fork to be sold when he flees the country. You'll take care of all that for your members. Mr. President, thank you for your address, thank you for the tolerance you've shown from this pay phone to all the MPs. I assure you, unless the government presses us and usurps us with a choice in the Serbian Parliament, we are more tolerated than other parliamentary groups, but we are even stronger when you attack us and you know it, all the authorities that have tried to attack us so far know that. Ask your predecessors from DOS, they had to break our hands to get us out of this room when we thought our rights of MPs were violated. This is another vision, here our reputation, our honor, our right to be harmed by the Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Minister of Finance. From this, the minister cannot be removed from his MPs' tolerable discussions or the president of the National Assembly, from this government cannot get away with it. This is a business between Dinkic and the SRS, Kostunica and the SRS. Either someone will apologize to us for this scandal that happened, or you'll have a chance to discuss it until the end of the regular session, and even when you call for an emergency, just on this matter. I promise Serbia, this negotiating team that is fighting amongst itself and won't listen to us do the job we've authorized it to do, will have the same conditions for working and now that we're going into the pre-election campaign, and that there is no choice. Don't scare Serbia, don't deceive it. The negotiating team will be able to fight with the same strength for Serbia's interests, which it now wants to fight. We're going to the election, that's obvious. As long as we don't get an apology, until the minister gives up his position that we, the MPs who criticize him, the primitives and the bastards, if that doesn't happen, we'll have a very quick election. Prepare yourself well for these elections because I'm not sure you've learned how to get down from power, how to rule that when you get down from power, you can be an honorary citizen again, and that you rightly expect what Western-developed democracies have, that in the next term you'll be power again. So, Mr. President, I welcome your desire to smooth out the misunderstanding, but not by telling us that all day long we MPs have insulted each other, or the minister, or that what the minister said isn't exactly -- what is it with you radicals, so what if he says you're bastards, war criminals... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And that you were bought. I'm finishing up and I'm sorry. So, Mr. President, if your party intends to get out of this, and the minister belongs to your political option, we expect a statement from your party or your minister. That's got to be clear. It must be an apology to the MPs of the SRS, which the minister called the primitives and bastards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23871	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. (I Nemanja Sarovic, from the place: Why over the line, I called before him, I answered while he was still talking. ) Please, it's not over the line, I explained this dialogue, to make sense, we can only run it like this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23872	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, for asking questions clearly. I'm sorry if he's threatened by any order, that's not my wish. I just want the discussion to have a clear flow. So, how the parties will plead and how the ministers will plead, parties and ministers decide. The speaker of the assembly will, as so far, seek to protect all MPs by working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What I saw, that's what I reacted to. The MPs insulted each other. For these, almost two years, and I always feel that people are personally responsible for their jobs, for their behavior, I think I've clearly shown that I respect MPs, not making a difference, and you're yourselves witnesses that it's hard to make a difference. Sometimes people show up in front of one party, tomorrow in front of the other, it's part of political life. It's not my place to make a difference, and it's not my place to do anything other than what you said clearly. So, only what is in the power of the President of the Assembly. I call, I hope that's a clear answer, anyone who wanted to offend anyone, whether they believe they're misread, certainly an apology to those who might be affected by some attitude. The president of the assembly has never, in any word, hurt any MP and has not mentioned the name of any party from this pay phone. I'm just saying, I'm not overshadowed by the role of any minister, so I have no intention of using the assembly pay phone to talk about any minister all the time. It's my job to take care of Parliament. Thank you, everyone who supports it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23873	There are more than 10 reported for the word. May I have your patience, please? I'm trying to follow the order. Mr. Sarovic, you're not up, but if your party colleagues allow you to speak through the line, I'll give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Pregle Markovic, I warn you that I will speak as if you are here and that your disrespect for the National Assembly and the speakers and that now that you've said what you wanted to say, you're out of the O.R., you're really not going to stop me from saying anything. So what is the essence of the whole debate is not, of course, a political conflict between this or that political group, between this and that political party. We wanted to see if there was a limit to which members of the government could go in insulting MPs and see if you were ready to draw the line together and say, "This is what we won't allow and we won't cross over." First of all, I must say that Mr. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, has, unfortunately, once again brutally violated the Rules of Procedure in several ways. First, in his previous address, he spoke for 10.5 minutes, although according to the Rules of Procedure he has the right to speak for the longest three minutes. That is why, Mr. Mikhailovich, I warn you that in the future, I will consider you to be the right to speak at least as much, I will not speak for a second as the President of the National Assembly had.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23875	Mr. Sarovic, I must tell you, if we are to exclude the quote, Mr. President of the Assembly, MP Predrag Markovic spoke less than any MP of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23876	Mr. Michaelovich, let me explain. So, you have to give an explanation in relation to the violation of the Rules of Procedure that I pointed to, but only after I've finished my presentation. So, don't be impatient, don't interrupt me, let me explain how, in my opinion, the injured Rules of Procedure, and then, of course, you'll have a chance to, as chairman, say whether I was right or to give some judgment about it. So you have no right to interrupt me, unless I offended anyone during my address. The quotes to which this applies, that they are not included in the time it takes to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, is to quote the Rules of Procedure, so the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Markovic did not quote any of the only provisions of the Rules of Procedure. He quoted what Mr Mircic, Mr Krasic, Mladjan Dinkic said, but did not quote the rules of the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind if we figure out these Rules of Procedure anyway. Then say clearly and loudly that any quote is not included in the time that an MP can use to warn against the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have no doubt that, in the future, whoever reports from the MPs will be given the same criteria. But the problem is, when Mr. Markovic makes the right use of it, then he can quote whatever comes to mind, he can do it for 10.5 minutes, and that time won't count. When the same right, according to the same Rules of Procedure, is used by someone from the SRS parliamentary group, then be careful on time, then quotes are not included, and after three minutes you warn on time, interrupt, etc. So whatever criteria you choose, we'll agree. So, unfortunately, we're also forced to have this freakic Rules of Procedure, which Predrag Markovic suggested, and your assembly majority voted, we respect, not because we like it, not because it's democratic, but because we respect the institution, we respect the National Assembly. As much as we disagree with the solutions that are in this Rules of Procedure, we respect the National Assembly that brought this Rules of Procedure to the majority of votes. It is your duty to respect him greater than ours. We didn't vote him, we're the opposition. If you break it, then give us at least as much rights as you asked for. Next thing you know, what Mr. Predrag Markovic meant by saying, here's what I'm calling anyone who's possibly not well understood or misread, to say that he's misread. He is trying in his well-known manner to distort some events and send the wrong picture to Serbian citizens here, to say that someone good and honest, Mladjan Dinkic, misread. Those evil-minded MPs, not only are primitives and bastards, but they still want to misread Mladjan Dinkic. How is it possible for someone to misread Mladjan Dinkic when he clearly and openly says that the MPs are primitives and that they are bastards? Is there any other way to interpret it? Can this be interpreted in any positive way? Of course he can't. We really don't want to go in with anyone here. We want you to tell us openly whether you support that the minister, his name was Mladjan Dinkic or otherwise, comes to the National Assembly and in the worst possible way insults the MPs. You should know that if you allow it today, tomorrow will happen much worse. It wasn't always the kind of insults that fell for the assembly pay phone, nor did it always fall for Mladjan Dinkic as well as for such... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... The way it offends the Messengers of the people. It went a little bit by bit, so you allowed one, and then the other. Every time you give him a finger, he wants a whole hand. It'll go a lot worse. So no one here is misread. I'll say one more thing, and it's extremely hypocritical and malicious, Mr. Predrag Markovic, president, unfortunately, the National Assembly said that here with his discussions I don't know what we're stalling, so there's no law on the agenda that, my God, I don't know what kind of help and service to the pensioners will be done. That's a lie. All citizens of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23877	Mr. Sarovic, you've been out of time for almost five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23878	I'm finishing up, Mr. Markovic. I've got two and a half minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23879	I assume you're accidentally making a lapus around your last name.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23880	I'm finishing up, Mr. Mihailovich, don't let Mr. Markovic drag you into the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So, so far, we've had a proper relationship with you, we've appreciated your efforts. Don't let Predrag Markovic drag you into what he's doing. He made you and abused you for a moment to give him your word, although several of the messengers of the people appeared before him. So he came forward as a National MP, as one of us is 248. If he wanted to, he could sit there for you and as chairman to address and give some explanation, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. No, he sat here in the bench, volunteered as an MP, and used his status as president of the National Assembly, abused him, and forced you to break the Rules of Procedure and give him the word over the line. So, the truth works, and I'm gonna say this and I'm done. The Public Debt Act, on the basis of the commitment of the Republic Fund to the PIO staff, created on the basis of outstanding pensions and cash compensations, does not provide for any benefit for pensioners. It says clearly here, a third of the pension they were due to receive on January 20th will now be divided into two parts by Mladjan Dinkic, and one share will be won in January 2006, and the other sixth will be given in July 2007. So what the law provides for them to receive on January 20th will have to wait until July 2006 for this first part. So there's no benefit for the pensioners here and it's not true that the pensioners in this law have anything to hope for. I wish this law had never come to the agenda and so on, where it is fortunate that Mladjan Dinkic never became a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23881	I'm setting a break for an hour, so we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-12-0.u23882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's work has been scheduled by the President's decision of 8 December at 17.48 p.m. on account of the importance of the laws on the agenda. Since it has been pointed out many times during today that there has been a violation of the dignity of the MPs and that consultations have to be made, and since there has been no discussion of the law on the agenda, I am taking a break. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, above all a good day. To all who celebrate St. Andrew's Day, happy glory. Before we begin the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, I agree that 119 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one-third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions to start working day. There is no notice that some MPs have been prevented from attending the sittings. As I received assurances that there was no intention at the previous sessions, when I did not lead, to hurt any MP, as opposed to that, I would ask that today once again at 11.00 hours also the heads of the parliamentary groups discuss. We are continuing a joint search on the 2, 3, 4 and 5 points of the agenda. Before I give my word to the presidents, or authorized representatives, one notice, the Legislative Committee is at 10:15 p.m. in a small hall. The reply to Mr. Homan's presentation was requested by MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
