ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19863	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than 1/3 of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by MPs Nikola Novakovic and Susana Grubjesic. Since the National Assembly has completed a principle search on all draft laws in the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 140(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move to review the bill in particular. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Penzijsko and INVALIDSKISKI OSIGURANJU (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Slobodan Adžić, Miloljub Albianić, Vesna Obradović and Vladimir Homan, Meso Omerović and Ljiljana Nestorović, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic, Nemanja Sarović, Momir Marković, Milan Stevović, Branislav Rankić, Natasa Jovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Goran Cvetanović, Sreto Perić, Vojslav Milajić, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Mileta Poskurica, Milejka, Dr Paja Momčalkov, Zoran Mirčić, Hranislav Mirčić, Hrnislav Perić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić, Milić and Milić. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19864	The Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment to Article 4. It's a bill of law. Let me inform you that this member is practically changing a member of the 19th existing law that regulates matter conditions for obtaining age pension rights. This article in 19 is now referred to as "The Ossuary is entitled to an age pension", refers to insurance workers, and three points go: "1 when he turns 63 (a man), or 58 (a woman) years of life and at least 20 years of retirement; 2) when he turns 65 (a man), or 60 (a woman) years of life and at least 15 years of insurance training; 3) when he turns 40 (a man), or 35 (a woman) years of insurance and at least 53 years of life. "This provision has been like this since 2003 when the new Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act was adopted. This was different before. When I say -- earlier, so over twenty-something years ago, we had some standard in place. As regards point 1), as a condition, it is not 63 and 58 years, but 60 and 55 years and 20 years of insurance training. Compared to point 3, the condition was not 53 years of life, but 50 years. It was changed in 2003. Now, in this proposal, the government proposes something further, so the new point 1) would be – 65 years of male, 60-year-old women and 15-year-old insurance staff. A new point 2) would be – 40 years old male, 35 years of female insurance and at least 53 years of life. The new point 3 would be – 45 years of insurance training, without conditions relating to years of age. The Serbian Radical Party advocates what it used to be. We're in matter and mandatory retirement insurance, and we need to tell you what's a secure case. When it comes to retirement, the insurance case is years of life, or the age of insurance workers. It is thought that at 65 years of age, a man has lost his ability to work. So he can't be expected to work anymore, and based on his work, he gains and secures his existence. In our regulations earlier, the years of life have been determined by the fact that in determining the age pension as an additional criterion that is proven, as some today say, generational solidarity has also been used by the conditions of the insurance hold. I don't want to repeat some discussion from the principle debate, but with us, right now, for a long time, that year with which the age pension was 60 for men, 55 for women. Only as a corrective factor was the insurance internship, which was set at 20 years of age. We suggest that it be returned in a somewhat altered form, bearing in mind, above all, the demographic characteristic of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the fact that it exists. We suggest that age from 63 to 60, and in women 55, with this corrective factor - the insurance rate, as proof of that generation solidarity, is increased from 20 years to 25 years. So this member also treats the conditions for gaining rights, but it's not about the extent of the rights guaranteed by this law. These are other provisions of the law on the methodology and way of determining retirement. Why are we suggesting this? Because a large number of citizens, after 50 years, have practically lost their jobs, are not in a working relationship; the state, the companies, why don't they say the individuals themselves are dealing with various ways for the man to be in some insurance system, to provide these conditions so that he can sometimes gain no pension. We believe that a man who is 56, 57 or 58, who is not in a working relationship, who has over 20 years of employment, when he is 60 years of age, needs to gain the right to retirement. So we're not getting into how old that retirement is going to be, because it regulates other provisions of this law. We are still seeking to maintain the principle that existed for years, which is: 65 years of life, 60 years for a woman and 15 years of insurance training, where this permanent principle of age is being promoted and the principle of a certain number of years is being maintained - 40, 35, with an appropriate variation which, above all, concerns the fact that the methodology for determining jobs where the insurance rate is being calculated for an increased duration. We accepted, in the end, what the Government has proposed - 45 years of insurance training, as the only condition, regardless of the years of life, because when it comes to the benefits of a work internship, it is quite clear that, at 45 years of age, an insurance internship, including that increased, is exceeding 55 years of life. We have no answer to the question whether or not the Government accepts this amendment. It probably does not accept, given that this amendment is contrary to the intensity that prevails in this bill, which is to tighten the conditions for obtaining pension rights and in general the conditions for the use of pension-inhabitation rights, so that as long as possible in that status of employed, unemployed, etc. the insurance company, in order to reduce the inflow of rights beneficiaries, means, above all, pensioners, in order to balance the foreign income and expenditure of the PIO Fund. I have to admit that there are still unresolved problems of people who do not have a secure existence, are not in a working relationship, may be kept on some record, are in years when they are not very attractive to employment, because in the new economic structure in Serbia they are mostly in ads – up to 35 years of life, and these people have some advantage. So, we have one population that's in some airless space, it's on the border to meet these pension rights requirements that the SRS proposes, it's a long way from the moment to take advantage of all the conditions to obtain pension rights as proposed by the government, and then we can statistically boast that we've balanced something, but in fact, we haven't solved the problem in life. We are willing to talk, if necessary, into detail, about this innovation. So we're not going back to what we used to be, we're aware that it can't go back to terms. You've seen for yourself, we're not looking for 20 years of insurance. No, but we say, 25 years of insurance, as well as in this new third point, as far as the years are concerned, we raise it to 55 years of life, we're making one combination, which shouldn't endanger those who have an insurance internship in the longer term. Because they are one special category of insurance, potential rights users, where, by definition, they are recognised, or given an advantage. We think that this way you can arrange the part that, in order for it to be clear to everyone, is left without a job, like those that used to work in banks, in companies that went bankrupt, in other jobs where the need for their work stopped, and in their work after 20 years of direct work on these jobs. It's regulated by this insolent state and, if I may say so, our political initiative fits into this tendency to regulate the purchase of pensions and the recognition of pensions by the state. It is one of the next points of this session – that it means that it connects the internship, so that people can exercise the right, that they don't have those black holes in the retirement internship. So this idea of ours fits that intensity. I cannot say what adoption of this amendment would directly mean from the point of view of the PIO and Budget Fund. Why can't I say so? Well, I can't say for the simple reason that even with this bill, we didn't get any projections. We didn't get a projection for the government's proposal, which will directly mean what expectations are. If the government couldn't give exact information about these expectations for this change, don't ask me to do the exact data. I don't have that kind of data, but I do know that there's a large category of people who are in that unregulated status, and as the day goes on, you have to be confident, a growing number of citizens are going to get into this situation to have an insurance internship for 20-25 years, there's no year that's prescribed, and now it's increasing -- it's being placed here as a minimum for 63 years, so in the transitional and final provisions, some chronology and some dynamics that the age limit is being shifted in succession over the next few years. In this way we come up with one final, certain status of a large number of people, and we don't influence the scope of rights more significantly. That's very significant. Someone gets a right, and if he's going to use it (I comment first on a new point 1) depends on the insurance company. What extent of rights will be, again depends on other provisions that have generally regulated the correlation between the insurance and years of life. So I'm saying, I can't give a more precise projection at this point, but I think it fits this trend and allows our citizens to be relatively under more favourable conditions than what is in the law, and in an identical way, as they could have been generations ago, they're exercising their pension rights, and whether they're going to use their pension directly, whether they're going to apply directly, that's already a completely different question. By adopting this amendment, we have not denied the possibility of people, some obligation. Probably, if someone in a working relationship is uninterrupted and he's 60 years old and he's 25 years old, he has an interest in still working and should, in any case, continue to work, at the very least. So it's not just about the rights or the insurance, and I get the impression that it doesn't affect the budget more, because it fits into this intensity, not just the first item of the agenda, but also the third, fourth, so why don't you say the fifth item of the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19865	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Hranislav Peric. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The bill, which amends Article 19 of the Law, and after point 3, adds a new position, which reads: "Right to an age pension is obtained by all other citizens when they turn 70 (men), or 65 (women) years of life, whether they have an insurance internship or not, and at the height of the lowest pension by insurance companies. "The reason I have submitted this amendment, I can say that this exists in some countries, and it is certainly in countries where there is a better organisation, in countries that have a better economy, etc. The reform of the pension and disability system should protect all citizens. Given that a small number of non-insured or non-insured citizens will be covered by this amendment, it will not be a great cost for the state to provide this category of citizens with material security. In this way, we would also provide for those citizens who in their working life have still made such a contribution to the construction of our country. This team before these are citizens who do not have a minimum insurance rate, and yet they have made a certain contribution, whether they have been working agricultural land, whether they have been engaged in livestock or vegetable farming, so that they have earned that in years when they are no longer for industry and when they are usually able to help themselves from the state and that they have some minimum means of life. I heard that this amendment did not go to the Labour Committee and that it was only voted for by the Socialist Party of Serbia, but it is also good to see who is acting only for this speaker to worry about citizens, farmers and peasants, and when it is a chance to vote for it, they always do not. This way of protecting old citizens is to avoid poverty and it exists in many countries. For example, anyone 65 years old in Kosovo, regardless of gender, receives 40 euros a month. The minister will probably say there's no money. The amendment is good and it should be that way. I say there's money, just to get the state's share of the money from Telekom who holds Karic, that's enough to pay minimum pensions for those who don't have an insurance internship. I get the impression that in one day it's stolen from the state as much as these pensions would cost the state for a month. Now I'm not going to list what it means to spend 50 years in agriculture, to process 5 acres of land, to work in a factory that doesn't have a roof, in the rain, in the big sun, and to produce food, to feed workers and all those who do. If they were to calculate all of that, they'd see that there's room in the economy, all that administration that's run by companies, so I'd compare who's harder, what's a working day, how much time he spends at work. If you saw all this, you'd see that my amendment is just and that it should be adopted. Regardless of the parties, I call on all MPs, they probably have this problem expressed in their midst, that in the day of voting they vote for my amendment, and I think there would be money, as is found for other needs that are not as important as this need to protect all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19867	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19868	The Serbian Radical Party represents the position, but when it comes to the social security and material security law of the family. From this pay phone probably 10 times the public in Serbia could hear the part of the Serbian Radical Party's social programme, which is acceptable, compatible with some other countries that regulate their regulations that when a citizen comes in at a certain age, he has the right to so-called. State pension, although that name varies from state to state, but it is a matter of social protection. When it is a matter of social protection, it is financed by the state from the budget, and in the budget funds are provided through taxes. We are here in a matter of mandatory social security, where funding is primarily made up of contributions. I remind you of the principled discussion where I was pushing for the government to finally come out and give us his comment on the legal nature of the contribution, mandatory social security contribution, as well as pension and health insurance. So the amendment is useful, acceptable, but not for this law. I have to say that we have something similar in this social security law and the material security of the family. We've been putting up with some amendments here. Let me remind you, we have also submitted a proposal to amend and supplement that law, I say much more from the position of those developments in Kosovo and Metohija, so we even tied to families, to improve their material position. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, the idea is acceptable, the idea is good, the idea needs to be worked out, let the government work it out and let us see, there may be years of life, but given the demographic structure of the Republic of Serbia, probably much greater benefits should be given to women, according to the number of children born in particular, and some other categories of inhabitants. The funds for this are provided in the budget, and whether or not through a special state fund, it's a matter of technique. In some countries, a citizen at 65 or 70 gets a state pension, whether he works or not, and then gets his pension on the basis of the first and second pillars of pension-inhabited insurance, etc., but this all depends on society and economic conditions, the material opportunities of a society to run that social policy. So, if one such amendment were to be found when the social security law and the material position of the family were discussed, the Serbian Radical Party would vote for it because it reflects our position. But I have to tell you because of this acting paradigm -- there are a lot of actors here. These amendments of ours couldn't pass a few years ago, they were unanimously rejected in this congregation. Of course, we don't have some copyright about this initiative, it's a political initiative that exists. As far as I know, two or three more political parties in their political programmes have this definition. I think it's the wrong side of the amendment, and it's probably a reflection of charity and some humanity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19869	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have come to the floor to say once again, although in principle I have said a lot of things, I draw attention to the serious problem that has been made by eradicating the first point of Article 19 of the existing law, i.e. the amendments and additions to this law in Article 4. I can see from the Legislative Committee's report that a little amendment has been made to this article. I was expecting a more serious debate, because this is about determining certain rights. Why am I saying that? If the text remains as in the proposal, the concept of retirement insurance is lost. It's important for all those categories they've had so far. Nothing has been corrected in the provisions of Articles 70 and 71 where it is said for 2006, 2007 and 2008 in certain conditions that a right can be exercised on the basis of that pension internship. Also, in article 71 for women with 58 years of life and men at 63 years of age and at least 20 years of retirement insurance. What after 2008? Does this mean that women who, in accordance with the current law and amendments and additions of the law, under Article 60, have the right, on the basis of the birth of a third child, to two years of retirement training, or special insurance training, will not be able to achieve this right on any basis? I do not see how this will be possible if the amendment submitted by Krasic is not accepted or intervened in the sense that this pension internship is in any version, at any point in the existing article 19. The law on pension and disability insurance or amendments and additions in Article 4 shall not fix that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19871	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19872	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, every time we talk about a government proposal in particular, I have the need to return briefly to the principle debate, because you of the Assembly's majority have brought a completely pointless Rules of Procedure, whose application at this point, I suppose, and a number of MPs, and certainly citizens who follow the work of the National Assembly, are unable to connect what we are talking about today, given that we had a principle debate on the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on PIO here some ten days ago. I will therefore remind, above all, of the position of the Serbian Radical Party: for us this proposal is totally unacceptable and we talked a lot about it in principle. We will certainly continue in the same direction today, because we think that this law is fatal for the oldest generation of Serbian citizens, for a generation of pensioners who, according to the Serbian Radical Party, do not deserve the government to play with them, to collect elsewhere points, and to leave its citizens at large. The government should be aware that pensioners today, with pensions like these, and I'm talking about most pensioners, or they barely make ends meet or fail to make ends meet. It may seem excessive to you, but the fact is that pensioners in Serbia are slowly dying, quietly dying, because they don't have the means to live normally, to live life as they should. We Serbian radicals do not want to participate in this and therefore, of course, we will not vote in favour of this law. I'm surprised we don't have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since the minister was here these days when we discussed this law; he was present, how much information I have, and at the Committee meetings. But I listened to the minister on a show Monday night; on the matter of the leader -- what is the government's relationship, or the minister's relationship with some of the amendments, you said, Minister (means Monday night), that you have no position because you're still agreeing. It would be nice (you didn't say on the show) to tell the MPs here who you're agreeing with, whether they're actors, who here say they won't support this law unless some of their amendments are passed, and the bottom line is that after some deal with you here they'll still vote for your proposal. Of course, Serbian citizens will recognize who is fighting consistently for their rights, and who only here is talking about not accepting some government proposals, and after some good trade still votes for those proposals. But that is not the problem of the Serbian Radical Party, it is the problem of the Serbian government and those who trade with the Serbian government. You're bad merchants, both of you. I would also like to remind that some MPs of the parliamentary majority here have in some way confirmed the views of the Serbian Radical Party, when one MP said that it is true that this bill is not good for people who are now retired, but that it is good for some future pensioners. I suggested it then, and now I'm going to say it again, it seems to me that it would be best for you to disburse the budget, to kill these current pensioners, because it's more humane than to let them die of hunger, and then to have a clean situation, to make funds for some future pensioners, and then to go to the second and third branches of insurance, etc. It's not a good position for a colleague to vote for this law. I will remind again of another interesting statement by a colleague who said she expects pensioners in Serbia to support the government's proposal because the law is good for their children and especially for their grandchildren. This is really scary: to expect the current pensioners to support the law by which their grandchildren will be fine, and you don't wonder if these children and their grandchildren will have anywhere to earn those pensions, you don't open new jobs, you don't allow people to work. Taking off this way from the Serbian citizens' budgets of Serbia's pensioners, it really should be an honor to you and to meet the IMF, but you say it's not true, and before that, a dozen days ago, you bombed us in the press with these conditions; it's not good, and that the SRS will never accept this way you do it. We, therefore, think that pensioners in Serbia deserve that the Serbian government takes care of them, and in what way, it is no longer their concern. As pension funds will be provided, that's also not their concern. They've been working for a long time. They spent their working lives to live as decently as they could in retirement days, and you from the government won't let them. There have been objections here to the so-called. disability pensions. It was said by colleagues who would vote for the law that there are a lot of those disabled pensioners who are actually alive and healthy, who bought once these pensions. Of course, we don't claim it wasn't there. It was, but why didn't you stop it if you knew of such phenomena from past times, why don't you stop it now? While we're talking about this law, six doctors, two days in a row, we've had information in the media, it's been arrested for selling solutions to determine disability pensions. Is there anyone else responsible besides these doctors? Who allows, who allows such phenomena in society? Mr. Minister, there are a lot of issues for you and your Ministry of Thinking and Solving and it's not good what you're doing with this package of laws. You'll see, after all, and the citizens' reaction, but unfortunately, I'm afraid the pensioners won't even have the strength to react to these laws of yours, given what awaits them in the near future. The amendment I tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group concerns Article 5. I have proposed that Article 5 be deleted, with the intention of retaining an existing solution from the law relating to the reduction of the age limit for pension rights for those insurance companies who account for an increase in duration. To remind you, Article 5 refers to Article 20 of the basic law on whose amendments and additions we are discussing. The 20th said to a security guard whose insurance internship counts with an increased duration, an age limit for obtaining age pension rights, as set out in Article 19. 1) and 2)", so it was, and now point 1) of the new law, "is reduced depending on the degree of increase of the internship by one year, and that is: 1) for every six years carried out at the workplace", it was, and you now say every three years at the workplace, "or at work where 12 months are effectively taken into account in the insurance internship as 14 months; 2) for every five years", it was, and you say every two years and six months, "implemented at the workplace, that is, the work at which 12 months are effectively carried out in the insurance period as 15 months; 3) for every four years", in basic law, and you say "in every two years, carried out at the workplace, or a job where 12 months are spent effectively in the insurance stage as 16 months; 4) for every three years spent", and now you say every year and six months, "on the workplace, or work on which are carried out as 18 months. "You have told us here that this law does not abolish any existing privileges, and this article is an eclectic proof that you are doing just that, both with this member and some other members we will talk about during this debate. The position of Article 20(2) states: "The age limit of Article 1 can be reduced to a maximum of 53 years of life". You are now proposing: "Extremely from the position of the 2nd member, the age limit for insurance workers working on points 1 to 4 of Article 1 can be reduced to 50 years of life." You haven't explained why you're only reducing that age line from 53 to 50 years of age for this category. That doesn't even stand in the light of the law. On the one hand, you're increasing the age limit, because you want to reduce the number of pensioners, that's obvious. On the other hand, you only reduce this age line in a particular category, we know it's military and police. Obviously, you have special intentions here, probably to clear the army and the police of the unsuitable, and then you try through this law, because those of those years of life are not alike to you, given your political views; I don't mean you personally, you don't have a political view now, because you don't belong to any party, but I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You've been saying that by increasing the age limit, you want to reduce the number of pensioners, and this way you increase the number of pensioners, because you're reducing the age limit. So it's not true that you did this in principle, it's not true that this law has some basis in some of the views of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's just that you've been doing the way you want to, from case to case. The point is that this law makes you very bad for a large population of Serbian citizens, and these are pensioners. The fact is, you don't have a valid explanation why you're doing this and how the pensioners are going to get over this problem. What you're saying is what's going to happen for how many years I don't know, it doesn't help people who are 75 or 80 and are trying to survive with such small pensions that you're not going to increase, which, in fact, will actually fall. All these gatherings that are current and which, every day, land us unfortunately, have a negative impact on the pensioner's standard, because pensions do not now increase in the way they should and do not follow the rise in the cost of life. Only according to this proposal of yours is it really worrying, Minister. I don't know if you and your colleagues intend to vote for this law are even aware of the situation you are bringing pensioners into Serbia. I understand that you can't understand that if we MPs live with good wages, but I guess you have pensioners in the family, in the neighborhood, among friends, you can see that if the pensioners, if they don't have someone to help them, they can't live on what they get and what's called pensions, and what you're preparing for them by this law, believe me, there won't be any room on the containers anymore, because people literally won't have anything to eat. It's not a demagogue story, believe me, Minister. Communication with the citizens of Serbia and you will hear, even though you do not ask them. Pensioners are very scared, they're afraid for their lives, because you're putting them in a situation where more and more, unfortunately, there's going to be suicides, because in recent years, the most suicides have been done by pensioners. That's a fact, we read it in the papers. This cannot serve the government of the Republic of Serbia, and what you propose, those who do not have the courage to kill themselves, unfortunately, will die slowly because they have nothing to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19873	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) Mr Lalovic has the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19874	Dear People's MPs, I only volunteered to remove one misunderstanding. Namely, this amendment to Article 5, given in front of the SRS parliamentary group, is very unusual, and it is unusual because it seeks to delete a member who determines a much more favourable solution for those people in Serbia who work under difficult working conditions. So, in law, we propose more favourable solutions, that for shorter effective work, real work gets that they can retire early. That's why I'm confused with this amendment to Article 5, because it's completely the opposite of some other things that have been said here as a criticism of the law. So this is one of the members who makes much more favourable solutions for employees in Serbia. More interestingly, this is one of the solutions where those who have talked a lot about them as infamous, the IMF has the same attitude as the Serbian Radical Party's position here. It's one of the things where we disagree with the IMF, where we propose this solution. Now it comes out that the SRS, practically, supports the IMF's position on this. So, I wanted to say because of the citizens of Serbia, that we would not be mistaken, that this Article 5 means a significant improvement when it comes to people who are working under difficult conditions. This also serves to lower the age limit for those who work under the most difficult conditions; these are miners and similar categories with 50 years of life. Another topic that was interesting here is the possibility of retirement, independent of the insurance training, with a certain age limit -- 65 years, 70 years and so on. We think there's a reason to put such a solution into the system, because we don't think it's a retirement law place. You will have the opportunity here, as MPs, to discuss the amendments to the Social Protection Act together in the next period. It is the right place, if we all agree and agree, to provide for such protection for our citizens who, on other grounds, do not have an insurance internship and cannot reach basic social security. I announce, when that law is in place, we will have the opportunity together to find the singlest and best solution in this matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19875	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petar Jojic has responded to the change in the existing article 25, concerning insurance companies with loss of work capacity and how they gain the right to a disability pension. We believe that the legislator, Minister Lalovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should not have shortened this existing Article 25, i.e. point 3) in Article 25 of the Basic Law, because as much as it was a solution for those who have a permanent loss of working ability. I wanted this amendment (currently absent Mr Petar Jojic, who proposed the amendment on behalf of the SRS), to focus on another story and another category of people who are neither pensioners, have a certain degree of disability, and the state does not care about them. It is a major problem that the previous DOS government has promised to solve. I will refer to the case of people who have suffered work injuries and who have a certain degree of disability, and who are employed in the Zastava car factory or Zastava - intended products. It speculates on how many people it is, but it's estimated that what those who don't do right now, which those who are engaged, has a total of about 1,000 in the car factory, which you claim to be, I mean the entire government, is going to make a pompous shift with the signing of the contract with the Fiat. But again, there is the saying "not a smoother donkey to green grass", to see how the government of the Republic of Serbia along with the flag group will be freed from the accumulated debts, and to note that "Fiyat" has always had a maternal relationship with the flag from the period when the co-operation was established in the 1970s and 1980s. This is a really big problem for people, and I would like them to be in this debate, because these people need to get into a situation to get a pension, and some people are in such a lifetime that they've been missing it for a few years or a little bit, and for them, they're not being provided protection workshops and they're not working, not just at the flag-cars company, they're being provided. These are the constant demands of the strike committees representing these people, because they do not have some of their own, but are employees in this union, when it comes to the car factory, the Independent Union of Serbia; yet, no one has provided a clear answer since the government's representatives as to why this has not happened and why they have not been given these working conditions. You, Mr. Minister, probably know that these are very difficult jobs, especially in one such branch of industry and industry, and usually they are people who have disabled, unfortunately, have acquired in the flag - forge or in chambers where car paint and other parts are done, where there have been no conditions before. Some of them suffered such injuries and such health problems, which unfortunately ended with a fatal outcome. It's about time - not to be biased and I'm only talking about this problem in the flag, but it's a large number of people, over 1,000 people, and so much in some average Serbian city, there's not even a total employee – to take care of it. As for Mr Jojic's amendment and the orientation of the Serbian Radical Party, we will talk later on about the height of the invalidity pension, he submitted the amendment because he believes this is an existing solution better and that point 3 should be kept) in Article 25 of the amending law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19877	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19878	The amendment that we have submitted to Article 6. The bill is directly related to the amendment that we have submitted to Article 4, so that logic is also present with the promoter – when changing Article 19 of Article 4. The bill had to be amended by Article 25. The law, and that's Article 6 now. It's a bill of law. It refers to obtaining the right to a disability pension due to the permanent loss of working ability. We respect what is stated in section 1) of Article 25 when it comes to disability caused by work injury or professional illness, there is no condition other than health conditions. But when it comes to disability caused by an injury outside of labor or disease, given that we differently compose Article 19 of the Law with the previous amendment, that it has practically four points, then, since it does it in one whole, we had to intervene in Article 6 to keep this number, because as the Government has prescribed then really Article 4 and Article 6. Bills communicate, make one whole. Since we're changing, of course we had to change Article 6, and the purpose of that change primarily refers to years of age. It is now said 63 years, or 65 years, to which point 3 applies), and we ask that it be returned, according to our amendment to Article 4, to 60, or 55 years of life, with a minimum of five years of insurance training. You've now increased this, and I have to say that this increase has included everything, literally everything, because as soon as you've moved the border to 65, then you've made it possible to go all the way down. In our variant remains point 2) concerning 60 years and point 3 of 65 years. Since Article 4 and Article 6 form a whole, he had to go to this amendment and by talking about Article 6 we are going back to Article 4. We insist that the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement be 60 years of life, i.e. 55 years for women and 25 years of insurance training. The second condition is 65 years of life for a man, 60 years for a woman and at least 15 years of insurance training. The third condition is 40 years of insurance, i.e. 35 years of insurance for a woman and 53 years of age and 45 years of training insurance as a general condition that implies within itself and years of age. This basic principle draws all of this into this part of the conditions for obtaining the right to a disability pension.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19879	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19880	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7 which requires the removal of the amendments to the Amendment Law and amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, for the reason that the proposed solution requires a deterioration of the conditions for obtaining the right to a family pension, i.e. an increase from 48 to 50 years. I'll read how it used to be. It is said that the widow gets the right to a family pension if she turns 48 to the death of her spouse (an old solution that existed under the old law), and according to the new proposal, it is 50 years of life; or if until the death of a spouse or within one year of the death of a spouse, she becomes completely incompetent to work; or if, after the death of the spouse, one child or more children who are entitled to a family pension after that spouse, and the widow performs parental duty to those children. A limb that, during the course of the right to do so, becomes completely incompetent to work, retains the right to a family pension while this incompetence exists. Then attitude 2, we have the same case -- a limb that has not turned to the death of a spouse, 48 years earlier, and according to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it increases to 50 years of life, but has turned out again after the earlier law, 43 years, and according to the proposal of 45 years, it is entitled to a family pension when it turns 50 after a new proposal, or when it turns 48, according to the Serbian Radical Party's proposal. When discussing reasons for such treatment, I don't know if this is one of the IMF demands the government of the Republic of Serbia disagreed with. It is interesting that these solutions, which deprive some of the rights of Serbian citizens, come into force immediately, that there is no need to wait there. I don't know why it didn't occur to Minister Lalovic that the fact of these provisions would be delayed, for example. by 20 February 2010, as is the case with some other provisions, where farmers are paid these 20.5 pensions. It must have been extremely democratic, in line with these pro-European flows, of Euro-Atlantic integration, for citizens to wait for it to return to them by 2010. Or, the situation we had about returning 1.5 pensions, which returns, according to the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2.5 years, or one 20th of the pension per month. So this is about top-notch cynicism. It should remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that debt from 1994 and 1995, which was the same when the Serbian Radical Party was not in power, but which was returned during the Serbian Radical Party's participation in power. At that time, you severely attacked Professor Vojislav Seselj and the SRS because of a solution to retire that debt, a small debt, much smaller than what we're talking about now, is being paid through electricity stamps. Now you can see how fundamental the difference between the government and this one is now: these power stamps could have been used at the moment. So, you didn't have to wait two, three, five years for them to reach, you could immediately carry out certain obligations with them, whether for your household, your children's household, or some other way, but it's essential that these bonds had the same and effective and nominal value. Now we have a situation that with this public debt, this nominal value will differ dramatically from what these bonds really have. Because if the bond comes to you in five years, it will be worth 20 or 25% of the nominal amount today. It'll be worth as nominally indicated only for those who, with that, mean, when they buy for 20% or 25% of the value, they pay corporate tax, excise tax, VAT and the rest, which pensioners don't pay; then it was completely insane to allow pensioners to pay corporate tax to those bonds. It was clear in this way that the money - 23.5 billion dinars were not intended for pensioners, but were intended for those who needed these bonds to buy from pensioners and then to place those funds in the economy, to buy out businesses, to pay taxes to the state and thus to avoid taxes. In the very explanation of the government, a lot has been said. These statistics are interesting for 1987, 2000 and in general the ratio of salaries and the number of employees, i.e. the coverage of pension contributions incurred on the basis of the contributions paid. Then you say that in 2000, that relationship was 78.56%, that in 2004, it was 58.55%, but that relationship continued to decline. So you're saying yourself that you've tried to overcome the problem by increasing the rate of contribution and the measures of coercion to collect contributions. Nevertheless, the deficit in the Fund remained present, with the trend of further growth. It is said: "The existence of a pension and disability insurance system, due to high participation in the country's social product and high payload, is an important obstacle to the country's economic recovery and progress, which indirectly deepens the pension system's problems. In other words, the pension system and economic progress are directly linked, so that interdependencies, i.e. changes in one area, are directly reflected in the situation in another area. The high contribution rate leads, on the one hand, to the financial depletion of the economy and, on the other hand, to the increased avoidance of payment of contributions, which is common practice for us. "You here clearly say that there are direct payments to pensioners and the economic recovery of the country. So either we'll have pensioners and support pensioners and the country will continue to fail and the economic system, or, on the other hand, we'll get rid of these laws by a pensioner and then we'll probably blossom. But, gentlemen, that's not what you said in 2000 when you came to power and that's not what you said in 2003 when you came to power. In 2000, you said -- six billion dollars waiting at the border ready to go in, only to get in; as soon as the previous government falls, everything will blossom immediately, there will be regular wages, there will be regular pensions, we will all live in prosperity, honey and milk will flow. In 2003 you said, "These before us were thieves, so it was not good, but now that We have brought them down, then the well-being we have told you about will come." In the meantime, you supported each other extremely unencumberedly and contrary to the promises made to the citizens, whenever they needed to. That's why we're in this situation. I think it's time you told these unfortunate pensioners once, because they certainly are unhappy when they have to live while this government is going to rule, whether you're going to pay them a pension in the future or not, which are the problems; whether it would be best to abolish pensioners, whether we're going to end the people, because over 70% of Serbian citizens are currently in favour of extraordinary parliamentary elections; how you're going to solve these problems. What's very interesting is that in one place this data was missing in 2000, and that's where you say: in 1987 - 2.548,000 employees, missing in 2000, and in 2004 - 1.580,000 employees. Clearly, this isn't a random mistake. It is clear that by giving this explanation, the government of the Republic of Serbia has avoided giving information about it in a clear way, how busy it was in 2000 precisely because it would then be seen in a clear and reviewed way what the destructive effects of your government have in the previous four or five years. Because of your reforms, you say – in 2002 the problems were overcome by the amendment of the Federal Law on PIO, you once increased the age limit by three years, for men from 60 to 63, for women from 55 to 58, so you changed the way pensions were coordinated because this was not enough for you first. You left this system based on earnings as the only parameter, so in 2003 you passed a new republican law, which again established a new pension calculation. Now, in 2005, you round up that system by wanting to increase the age limit from 63 to 65 for men and from 58 to 60 for women. This way, it's easy to calculate that someone half a year before the DOS came to power had a few months to retire, so in 2002 you increased him again by three years, so he missed it again, now you're increasing again. So, five years from now, you've increased your retirement age by five years. This way, practically, the citizens worked for nothing for five years. Where did they go that year and what would happen to pension funds if they and those five years hadn't paid taxes and contributed to the budget? How long would that take today? Would it be possible to even pay off pensions today? In the end, you say yourself: "For the implementation of this law, there is no need to provide additional funding for the grant of the fund, compared to the donations so far. "I don't know how you explain it, if you say these are solutions that are incomparably better for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which will finally bring prosperity. But it should only be patient, and then read the next paragraph, which has the title – Analysis of the effects of the law. So, to be clear, this is what the government writes about its own law: "The adoption of this law will continue to reform the pension and disability insurance system started in the mid-80s, to improve the financial opportunities of the fund... ". How do the fund's financial opportunities improve? By requiring citizens to work longer and to pay, while at the same time having fewer pensions and shorter periods of time, these pensions will benefit. Perhaps it would be good for you to increase immediately, now, by another year of that age limit, so that it would be 70 years for men, 65 for women, and in this way, even more significant and even greater financial opportunities for the fund. You wouldn't have to worry. I think that would have an additional impact on the number of pensioners in general. Then, practically, I think for the first time, Mladjan Dinkic would be able to achieve a surplus in that part. We wouldn't have a pensioner anymore, we'd get rid of the pensioner, and on the other hand, those who work would have to pay, because you've increased the measures of coercion, and I think you could finally focus that surplus on some other activities. Furthermore, you say that "in particular, the effects expected by applying new solutions to raise the age limit by two years in relation to the existing solution, thus extending the period of participation of insurance in the pension and disability insurance system and reducing the pressure on the budget in terms of the necessary funds to pay off pensions. In addition, by harmonising pensions twice a year, and not quarterlyly as so far, the problem of lack of funds in the fund is overcome and regular pension payments are ensured, which is of general interest. "I really think the real expert team had to gather to write such a pointless sentence. Is it possible for someone to say that there were no funds in the Fund because pensions were determined and aligned with staff incomes quarterly, not half-yearly, as is now foreseen? Such a change, therefore by harmonising half a year, will only be damaged by pensioners, because they will have the period of half a year in which they will wait for their pensions to comply with the cost of living, inflation and increase employees' earnings. So it's a simple fact and it has nothing to do with the payment of funds to the Fund. So tax rates and everything else remains the same. The only way you're gonna steal pensioners is if they're gonna have to wait half a year to get their pensions back together, instead of doing it for three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19881	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19882	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know, whenever this minister passed a law and whenever I submitted an amendment or went out to defend the amendment, he was going out, that is. He's always stuck at the door. I have a slight feeling the minister hates me. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 8, i.e. Article 30 of the basic law, and is very attached to Article 29, as Article 29 regulates the question of widows, i.e. widows and rights to the family pension of widows, and Article 30 is a widower. Article 30 says, "A widower gets the right to a family pension if he turns 53 to the death of his spouse." That's how it's been so far. The ministry, or minister, has proposed 55 years. So he's raised that line by two more years. "If until the death of the spouse, or within one year of the death of the spouse, he became completely incompetent to work; or if, after the death of the spouse, one child or more children who are entitled to a family pension after that spouse, the widower performs parental duty to those children. A widower who, during the course of his rights, becomes completely incompetent to work, retains the right to a family pension" etc., etc. "A widower who, during the course of his family pension rights acquired in the manner described in item 1 of point 2) and (3) of this article turns 53 years old," the law said, 55 years under the proposal of the minister, "resistantly retains the right to a family pension. "What's this about? Since the issue of employment has always been problematic for us, and that is one of the most difficult issues a man solves - the question of starting a working relationship, and many families live on exactly one salary or one pension, in this case it may be that man is incompetent, disabled and that instead of 53 years, which is a reasonable measure, the minister increases his bill to 55 years. I received a report from the Legislative Committee saying that my amendment is legally possible. I didn't get anything from the Serbian government, so I don't know why the amendment I submitted isn't being adopted. Mostly ministers who at least work in that Serbian government submit a report, so they say - the amendment is not adopted because of, well, the argument, that, and that. There's no such thing here. Next, to make the irony the greatest, Article 79. The bill says "This law takes effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", which has been applicable since 1 January 2006. Point 3 says – the provisions of Articles 1, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 (referring to widows) and 30 (referring to widowers) will apply from 1 January 2007. When we discussed this law, I made some comparison; it's like if some train messenger said – a fast train from... So he arrives at the station on the first, second, third, fourth track. Whom does the minister oblige to apply the provisions of this law in 2007? Well, by that time, the minister will be an ugly political past for Serbia, this minister, and will go to a political asylum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was said this morning that this minister was not principled. I wouldn't agree with that. The man has a principle. The principle is "whoever." After all, this last transfer made it clear, and that it did not move from party to party, but is now an independent MP, and it kept both functions -- and the function of MPs and the function of minister, it is normal and one time-share has to be contained in it. Well, it takes a while to change the color of the Camelot when it moves from tree to tree. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the character of this minister is clearly outlined in this bill, and I suggest that the amendments, both my and all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, be adopted, should we at least ease the impact on the standard of the poorest category of the population in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19883	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19884	This amendment concerns Article 55. The bill, which regulates something called the benefits of a work experience, but it is inevitably relying on a previous member who defines conditions, criteria and situations when calculating the increased insurance rate on certain jobs can be prescribed. What especially has its weight is what you do with Article 12. The bill changes. To make sure everyone understands what this change is – the change is that this member allows the minister to change the law, that the law depends on the minister. The law depends not on the legislative authority, but on the minister. These changes in article 55 are modest. Let's just say, they didn't want to change this "intention rate of the insurance rate" because that doesn't mean anything, because the insurance and increase rate isn't graduated, but it's said 12, 14, so 12, 16 or 12, 18 etc.; there's no classing and it's not touching, let's keep that inaccuracy. However, for those jobs and for those jobs where an increase in the insurance rate is prescribed by law, it is said to the "authorised official in terms of internal affairs regulations, a member of the Security Information Agency, employed in the body responsible for foreign affairs working abroad under certain conditions and employed in the body or organisation working on counter-radio-departmental and cryptography operations, the execution of criminal sanctions, the authorised official of the Tax Police Department", and that is what was entered two years ago and only this newspaper has been "in terms of the tax administration rules, every 12 months effectively implemented on those transactions, counted as 16 months of employment... "Beyond the word "calculated" the government proposes "most," which means it can do less. What else they added is "depending on the weight of these jobs, under the conditions laid down in Article 54 of this Law". And in the first place, it's prescribed by the minister. So, what's written in the law is that the members of the internal affairs authorities, the authorised officials, the people working in prisons, the cryptosts, etc., are also added to these Dinkics who visit and charge, and these are the ones that are given the opportunity when the great Democrats Djelic armed them with guns, even though it stands an increased 12-16 internship, now the minister can say, let's say – Tax will have 12-13, those in prisons will have 12-14, those in BIA will have 12-15, those who work at UBPOK will have 12-16. Who is that he prescribes this, a team before the 54th foundation and criteria are laid down, so the whole procedure is given to review these jobs every 10 years. We can empower someone to audit those jobs. But when we took as a criterion why an increased internship was recognised, due to poor health conditions of work in a particular place, in the chemical industry, evaporation, etc., so in the meantime maybe 10 years, something changes, working conditions improve, so we need to carry out an audit, but in terms of reviewing whether there should be any further or not, not in terms of how much the increase should be. But what's the point of reviewing the jobs that do the authorized official faces of the MUP? He chased thieves ten years ago, and they'll be chased for the next 10 years. He used to chase 'em with a 101 flag and now he's chasing 'em with a "punta." He used to use motorcycles, and now he's using cell phones or other means. The question arises why do we pass a law that prescribes how much increase there will be, when by other law we give the minister the right to disrupt all this? That's why we submitted the amendment. It's not possible to change the law like this. Let me remind you, in article 52, they first take difficult working conditions, life-threatening conditions, which are these two leading criteria; there is a third criterion, but not to go into details. However, the minister cannot change the law by his act. We can't have the minister empowering us not to apply the provisions of the Internal Affairs Act or that he determines how he will apply it, so he'll say it won't be 12-16, but it'll be 12-15, for example. The minister can't do that, not before no procedure was given here, not all the way it ends. That is what our objection is about when it comes to the possibility of the minister affecting this change. If the law states: difficult jobs, health-disrupting jobs, for these jobs is an increased insurance rate, but the law does not determine how much it is, then it is possible, but if some special law provides exactly how much this increase is: 12-14 or 12-16 or 12-18, then the minister cannot do anything there, nor to determine how much that increase can be. This is the purpose of this amendment – to introduce a single order in respect of the law and to contain and restrict some ministers. We're not lucky because he's just a liar. Everything he says, in the second sentence, is already a lie. He beat Vuk Draskovic. Wolf Draskovic is doing it for 15 minutes. The wolf Draskovic begins with one sentence and in 15 minutes he has denied himself, we know it. This one, in the next sentence, deny himself, I mean Lalovic. I have repeatedly intervened in the principle debate when MPs of the ruling parties said - no, this is a super law, no benefits are broken here. Please, the previous government, wherever the limbs are, widows, parents of insurance workers who exercise some right to a family pension, the Democrats have raised the age limit in three years, and you in two years, so five years, and you say nothing has changed, the benefits remain. How hasn't it changed? Here we are talking about some things about the demographic picture of Serbia, about new populations, about the relationship with young people, about the relationship with the family, we have a special Committee on Gender Equality, and they are asking for a third and fourth child some compensation, etc. This is all explained, there's no ideological view of the problem here. Tell us what your ideology is. What is your view of social policy in the Republic of Serbia? If that vision of yours wins, you know what's going on, and you don't have it. You're changing social policy from television to television. Here we're talking one thing, on this other television other, by the system of what anyone would like and what they would like to hear. The only ideology that exists in the government of the Republic of Serbia is the budget. We'll get to the fifth item of the agenda to see how to fill the budget in the future – by buying paper from the value of the state. Who will buy? Voluntary pension funds. Why? Their obligations come in 10, 15 or 20 years. Now it's going to be activated, so everyone's going to pay because there's no spending, but the management company of that fund is going to buy state-value charters, because they're the best, is the biggest guarantee, and that's how the budget's going to be charged, and that's how we're going to get to the surplus. Stop it anymore, the budget can no longer be the goal and purpose of life in Serbia. Mladjan Dinkic has confused everything, he has made the means a target. That's why I'm putting up with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19885	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by National MP Milan Stevović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the previous discussion of counterpart Krasic is just talking about how much amendments of the Serbian Radical Party to this law are legally logical and each other follows. So, in the amendments tabled, there is one legislative legal vertical, so this amendment to Article 12 that I have submitted has a basis, what counterpart Krasic was saying in his presentation. Comments, this is a member of 55, who regulates the benefits of a work internship for individual categories and is subject to an amendment to Article 2(2) of this Article. So, one group of jobs, according to the legislator's position, takes a special place, a special privilege, which is the tasks performed by authorised officials in internal affairs bodies, by BIA members, employed by the competent authorities of foreign affairs that carry out specific activities, to members of the Tax Police. I believe that these are important jobs and that in the previous law they are also valued and that there is a basis for the benefits of this work experience. However, the benefits of the work experience were determined precisely and fixed for 16 months. Now with this change, which we are up against from the Serbian Radical Party and for this reason I am submitting this amendment, it would not be legally possible and legally allowed to change it by the individual act of the minister responsible for this portfolio. Namely, one legal gap is left, and that is how much this benefits work experience will be. It may be determined even on full days, and it does not have to be on full moons. It would be logical, if the legislator and the promoter wanted to put it this way, to say – the benefit is determined on full moons. So it could be 13, or 13, 14, 15 and 16, as the maximum months. As it is left here, it can give the Minister the right to determine in some other way. But what do I mean? To give power to a minister in such a situation and to such a legal problem as is otherwise our country and the economic problem, it is highly illogical and irrational. Every single act should be avoided, so ultimately this procedure, which will be carried out by the minister through the competent resolutions. I believe that this member has a basis for what Mr Krasic said in the previous presentation, which is that there are certain things that should not be prejudged in any way, which is to draw provisions from some Lex specialist and to give something to the competent minister of labour, combat and social issues. I think it is very important to note that the specific laws governing the issue of internal affairs authorities, BIA, to those tax laws, provide for a clear and loud amount of benefits. To question this decision now or to make this law, not to say that it ceases to apply these decisions, or not to establish a legal equivalence between lex specialis and lex generalis, is indeed extremely unreasonable. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19887	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO, which applies to Article 63. The PIO Act. In fact, Article 14 of this proposal provides for the removal of something in Article 63 of Article 5, and Article 5 adds a new position 6 which reads as follows: "The annual personal coefficient may be up to five. "My amendment concerns that it is pointless to limit the personal annual coefficient. When you look at Article 63, which is covered by this amendment, where it is explained what the annual personal coefficient is, you will see that it is the ratio of the total salary of the insurance company, i.e. the basis for the payment of insurance and the average salary, i.e. earnings in the Republic of Serbia, starting in 1970. Why is it pointless to limit the personal annual coefficient at all, why can't this stand in law, and why is erasure required? For the simple reason you're getting into a situation where you're giving someone the number 35 to divide by five and tell them that the result can't be greater than five. Of course that's impossible. You have people who have achieved significantly higher earnings in certain periods since 1970 and a few times, six or seven times the average, and when you calculate their personal coefficient, of course, it will be more than five. You cannot limit this year's coefficient. Secondly, it does not affect, the one above five, or the practical determination of the pension height, because the pension level is limited by certain provisions of this law that are later on. It is clear that if you deny someone the option, and they really have a higher annual coefficient than five, the limited amount of pension is determined by an annual coefficient of four. Because what it means is that if you approve someone that has an annual coefficient of five, what they can do with it; that they boast to their society that they have a high annual coefficient, which is not realistic again, because this is completely pointless to limit. That is why I asked the amendment to delete this additional position behind item 5 in Article 63 – the annual personal coefficient may be up to five, completely deleted, since it is unnecessary practically, since pension levels are limited in some other ways. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19889	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19890	I must remind the MPs that we have submitted a number of amendments to the pension accounting system itself in the adoption of the Law on PIO. Of course, they were not adopted, and then we pointed to a problem that would arise in this way of calculating and determining pensions. You see, after not two years of age, these problems came out and now there was a need to solve this problem. The problem is that when this calculation is made on the basis of annual personal coefficients, it comes to a personal coefficient and multiplys with that fixed amount that applies to all pensioners, there is a very ridiculous amount of pension. It is therefore necessary to apply Article 78, where the limit of the personal coefficient is not annual, but personal, put on four when determining the maximum amount of pensions. If there are already provisions on the minimum and maximum amount of pensions, then all this is ahead of us. Why limit the purely accounting, mathematically, annual personal coefficient, so that it doesn't appear in the calculation that a man should have an oho-ho pension, because when he shows up and invites the one who brings the solution to Article 78, so this one sees how much he reduces compared to the reckoning, then it stings his eyes. What is dangerous, the ruling parties to this article have not submitted an amendment, so they support this limit of the annual personal coefficient to five. The next member was submitted for an amendment concerning the personal coefficient, where it was said to be at least 0.5. Members of the ruling party have submitted an amendment. You see that act that's coming from us. There are three systems of market economy: the American so-called individualist; Japanese-Asian, which is called feudal; this is our European, which is called the socio-market economy. The social-market economy, regardless of the socialist self-government society, has been present in our country for over 25 years, only there was a problem with us because we couldn't say it was state and we didn't want it to be state-owned, but we talked about it being social. During that time, the state of Central Europe was clearly saying that it was something state-owned. If the state prescribes mandatory pension and disability insurance, dictates to the funds, then state funds with the proper rights of those who invest in these funds. But they invest under the law, because they have to. It was all social here, too. Then we have the situation that our salaries were the accounting category for the payment of contributions, so all the funds became social resources, and when they were distributed they went with some other criteria, and then someone's personal income was going to be quite a good basis for the payment of contributions, and on the basis of the contribution, it was paying a lot, but the relationship between insurance companies and the funds was lost. The funds became social, and then everything in the collection was spent the other way. That Kaiser's system had to crack eventually. He was able to produce some results when the number of insurance companies and those who allegedly contributed was much higher than the number of people using pension-inhabited rights. That's the problem our government doesn't want to solve. They're trying to fake the first pillar to fool our eyes, to think they did something. As long as this link is not established between the contributions, the individual whose salary is the basis for the payment of that contribution, the amount of that contribution and the rights on the basis of this contribution, we will have pointless social protection, which is not even based on the principle of state guarantees. In our country, it's a fake to guarantee something. Why? Because a comprehensive socio-economic reform has not been implemented in the country. I don't know if it was that year in 2003 when something had to be done about pension-involvement insurance, and then the law on unemployment rights was changed and, I think, that health insurance bill. I'm not sure that in 2003 it was for that kind of change, probably in 2005, because it hit the bottom and it has to start on some new ground, not to get into a situation where a man, when he has to make a right, asks a question – please, I've invested for 30 years, where these funds are, I guess I've made a contribution. You put yourself in that position. It's a very similar situation when it comes to pensions, health care and unemployment insurance. An identical situation. Now you're young and healthy, you don't go to a doctor, you've been paying for 20 years, or it's being paid for, or it's being taken to pay for health insurance. If you retire, and you've never been to a doctor while you've worked, you'll be in a position for him to tell you – you know what, you have to pay for something. Then the logical question arises where are these assets that are invested. Someone ate it, someone took it, now there's all kinds of stories. They're gone, because the system's been set up badly. We don't change the system, the government doesn't change the system, the government doesn't want to change the system. The government has a fixed idea -- budget, budget, to be a stable budget. Why? Apparently, the IMF wants the budget to be stable. Wrong. We killed ourselves from that stability, but look what they're doing. So, with such a pointless provision, I am now going back to this amendment, where the annual personal coefficient is limited to five, only the actual calculation of the pension of that insurance company that applied for retirement or if the disability pension is determined, etc. If you want to establish a new system - a state guarantee, if the state has prescribed something that is mandatory, then the state guarantees those rights. What kind of rights they should be, you can talk about it. Whether we're going to split pensions into pension classes, whether or not we're going to do it in other ways, doesn't matter at this point, but this relationship between the lowest and most of you, according to your logic is 1:8. If the personal coefficient over here is a minimum of 0.5 and a maximum of four, now you see how many 0.5 goes into four and you're going to see 1:8. It can be acceptable, but you don't tell us anything, you don't give us a basis why it should be, you don't give the grounds for it, you don't give an argument why it has to be so for some long time. No, there's a tire patch system here, so maybe on the next corner, that same tire snaps right where it's patched up. Start with a comprehensive reform. It's not hard. Pension disability, health and unemployment insurance, that's the same thing. Add to this the social protection of the state, in terms of what we just talked about, which is not an act – the years of life experienced are proof that some state pension should be provided if there is no other way to secure existence. Give a comprehensive program, give a program with demographic movements, give a program with projections of what incomes can be, what expenditures will be, what period is how and what changes, how they grow, etc. Like this, we're doing business for nothing. There's no way out of this job, remember. You can get your eyes off the pensioners, not just the pensioners, but the insurance guys. If anyone thinks the law is passed here because of those who are now retired, they're wrong. You're bringing the law for you. You can't go back on your way to the baby, but on your way to the pensioner every day, you're getting closer and closer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19891	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Slobodan Adzic and Miloljub Albianic submitted. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 19th of the amendment, he is the mid-national MP, Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19892	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our relationship to the proposed laws in the area of pension-involvement insurance was made public at the assembly session when it was discussed the laws in principle. For those of you who care too much about the SPS, we don't worry. For citizens, whose court we respect in the elections, I want to say once again publicly – it is no secret that the SPS has three conditions for the adoption of these laws. That's not a secret, that's what we said in public. First, when it comes to connecting the internships, the requirement to refer to all workers and to apply it all the time, without any conditions, because workers are not to blame for not paying them a contribution. Second, to postpone the application of the law in the section on raising the age limit by two years. Third, to protect the level of rights acquired, or pensions, by proposing an amendment that introduces protection that cannot fall below 60% of the average. I want to repeat this again because of Serbian citizens, so it is not a secret, they will continue to judge. As regards the amendment to Article 19. The draft law – the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Article 19 provides for raising the minimum pensions to 25% of the profit average on 1 January 2006, which is for absolute support, this move by the Government. Then, to monitor growth as well as all other pensions and third, to increase rapidly every 1 January of the current year if the lowest pension falls below 20% of the previous year's average. It means it only applies once. We have proposed an amendment that we suggest that the extraordinary harmonisation of the lowest pensions on January 1st of the current year be done whenever they fall below 25%. So, the government's first idea of raising the lowest pensions to 25% on January 1st, 2006 is that it should remain in continuity. That's why we've proposed an amendment that we're asking not to wait for it to fall to 20%, but as soon as it falls in January of the current year below 25% to settle. By accepting this amendment we protect, the state protects (and this is in line with our policy and we are not ashamed of our policy, we will always fight for it) the most vulnerable categories of citizens, pensioners with the lowest incomes, which are otherwise far below minimum needs. Not a few, that's close to 100,000, with this change. By accepting this amendment, the state shows responsibility to its citizens, as well as to the international obligations it has committed to provide a minimum of material and social security that must not go below the minimum of human dignity. By accepting this amendment, we correct the injustice that was done in 2002, when the lowest pension was established even below the level until then the lowest pension. According to the provisions of the law, the lowest pension was found at that level, but due to illegal retroactive application for the last quarter of 2001 in January 2002, the lowest pension was 2,580 dinars, and according to previous regulations would be 2,960 dinars. So it's already downhill than it is the lowest. Furthermore, it was falling and, as we heard the other day from the minister, it reached a level of about 17% in this time. For these reasons, and given that in 2002 this injustice was already done... To remind you, by 2002, the lowest pension was determined on scale 20, 30, 40, 50%, depending on the length of years of internships and on the funds paid into the Insurance Fund. The provision was then applied to establish the minimum amount of pension according to the level found at that time, regardless of the length of the internship and regardless of the time of the insurance payment. So, for these reasons, and for the reasons of the state's obligation to the most vulnerable categories of the population, which is that category, we suggest that our amendment be adopted, which is an extraordinary adjustment of pensions, and then when they fall below 25%, so they don't wait 20%. For those pensioners and those minimum percentages, they mean a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19893	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19894	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the provisions of this law relating to this article are certainly better than they were in the law that was passed in February 2003. However, we have proposed an amendment that the lowest pension cannot fall below 25%. So, in this bill, the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have proposed a good solution, at least in the first part of this article, where the lowest pension is said to be 25% of the average earnings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but later it is said that the lowest pension could fall below 25%, with the harmonisation being done up to 20%. Our proposal is that the lowest pension should never be below 25% of the average salary. Of course, we are aware that one such pension of 25% of the average profit is not some pension, because it's a very small, very low asset, it's in these terms about 6,000 dinars, perhaps even lower. We know very well what can be bought for this money today, especially given that the prices of utility services, when it comes to electricity, the phone, went to heaven, and today we can say for sure that the lowest pension cannot cover these most essential needs of the population, or pensioners with such pensions. It's a little better a solution than it's been laid down in the law since 2003. It is obvious that, especially after 2000, somewhere in the period from 2001 to today, society has completely disintegrated, that we in Serbia today have several hundred billionaires, that we certainly have several thousand millionaires, that we have ten or 15% of people who live relatively solidly, and that these are people who are in power and in power, who work with rich people in some important and key places, and on the other hand we have a mass of the population, perhaps 80% of people who barely survive. Of course, this primarily refers to workers and pensioners whose pensions and salaries are very low and are not enough to settle the basic costs. On the other hand, we have an even more unfavourable situation in people who have no job at all, there are over a million of them, who have no hope of employment, so Serbia is today a completely polarised country when it comes to the economic situation and especially the economic situation of people living in Serbia. This solution, according to our amendment, is a mitigation of the provisions given in the basic law, and I count that all MPs will opt for our amendment, because it provides some kind of security; it is not security, but it is still better than it was given in the basic law. Like my colleague Misa Petronijevic and I want to make it clear this time that the SPS has a very clear view when it comes to the bill. We have submitted several key amendments that we will not give up on, especially when it comes to the age line. It cannot be tightened according to our amendment at least by 2011, when the provision on 65 years of life as a borderline for retirement will be met. Our attitude is quite clear when we talk about harmonisation, meaning the way and dynamics of alignment, but we're putting it aside now. The most important provision in our amendment is that the average pension should not be below 60% of the average salary. It's about the kind of condition he's in right now. According to some of our calculations, the average pension relative to the average salary is about 60%. When we talk about the provisions of this law on labour integration, we advocate, and we will not give up, to connect the work experience to everyone, not just those workers, employees who worked from 1991 to 2000, but also until 2003. These attitudes are very clear and differ from attitudes, for example. Democratic parties. We witnessed all these days, a few days earlier, where the head of the parliamentary group Dusan Petrovic was diving tears, fighting for pensioners, saying it was inhumane, that it was not right, that it was not moral, and he forgot that everything that was brought in 2001, 2002 and 2003 was under his party's patronage. The Democratic Party has just adopted a method of harmonisation by which pensioners are reduced to these pensions they now have; it means a three-month alignment with 50% wage growth and cost of life. Its party is the main protagonist to raise the age limit overnight from 60 to 63 for men, or 55 to 58 for women. Its party has just passed a law that constantly reduces the rates of contributions. He spoke a few days ago about why the minister, why the government does not increase the contribution rates. These contributions were in our time 26, 27, 28, 32%, to reach 22% today. Who brought all this? Democratic Party, Dusan Petrovic, his MPs. I call on him, and he is not in the Assembly today, let him come, let him tell the citizens of Serbia who led to this situation when it comes to pensioners, when it comes to all these provisions that were brought up to 2003. These are the key provisions that brought pensioners into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19895	Zoran says there's a fair in Capco today. "Do you go to the fair?" ( ) No, Dusan Petrovic is enough. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19896	I don't know about the fair. (President: I heard there from you. You heard from the other side, and that doesn't mean it's on my side. Things come from the other side, they don't always come from me. Let's get back to article 19 and the amendment of MP Milisav Petronijevic. This is the provision of Article 76, which changes - the lowest and highest amount of pensions. How was it done in 2003? It is said: "The lowest amount of pension belongs to an insurance undertaking entitled to an age or disability pension if that pension is less than the amount of pension established under the provisions of this article". So we're still in 2003. The second view says: "The lowest age pension, i.e. disability pension, is determined at the level of the harmonised minimum pension of the users found in the Republic Fund for PIO employees". So in 2003 it was said – the lowest pension will be the lowest pension we have found, but it is harmonized that all amounts that define a PIO right are aligned. How was that a long time ago? It was always in some percentage of something, and that something was some average. What does the minimum amount of pensions or the lowest pension mean, mostly old and disabled? It means that someone has earned the right, whether because of the pension internship, whether because of the basic insurance base, he is, as a personal pension, aged or disabled, determined some amount that is below the level that guarantees the elemental security of the citizens. This is a reflection of the solidarity that exists in that fund to construction workers, workers in the textile industry who had very low incomes, and on this basis a low basis for payment of contributions, as it is registered in M-4, when taken even with a small work experience, so when all of this is put into account, some amount is obtained that is below that limit. What the state guarantees through this fund is that border amount called - the minimum amount of pensions. It is possible that, depending on the work and the company, with a considerable number of years of work experience, it was a fairly widespread practice before, a man has a personal pension that is below that minimum. As a result of this solidarity, it comes. This is where the government proposed a math that's very strange. It is said to be 25%, but still wrong – January 1st, 2006. Don't make some provision that requires you to define one right in a general way to tie it to a date. You've tied everything to January 1st, 2006. I agree that it goes into transitional and final provisions, as an idea to connect and set something according to some date, which has been set on a day, month and year. But when you're talking about the right to a minimum pension, why didn't you say he was entitled to the previous year, etc. Why aren't you with one general formulation, which was once present in pension-involved regulations, thus determining the lowest pension. It wasn't strictly tied to the date -- that day, that month, that year. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. I see no difference here than what the Democratic Party prescribed in 2003. This is exactly the same. Methodologically, the way this member was legally-technically done. There's essentially a difference. First of all, it is based on some movements and statistics that recorded these economic movements and conditions in society. Now, this alignment is, in my opinion, both wrong and unfair. Do you guarantee a pensioner here since 1 January 2006, since the January pension for 2006, 25% of the average in the Republic for 2005? Not to go into the small details, I want to show a fundamental failure. You say - if for an employee the average salary, let's say, ten of some units were in 2005, the lowest pension would be 2.5. So, you're saying in the beginning that these pensioners' needs are four times less than the needs of the man who worked in 2005. In doing so, you forget one thing: that we already have a lot of inflation. Some say it'll be 20% at the end of the year. How did you determine this minimum, at what level is this minimum, is this minimum guaranteed to a minimum of social security? For the lowest amount of pension, it is no longer a matter of employment, years of life, investments, etc. It's a question of the social security unit. I took purely theoretically ten of some units, so ten of some units is the average, you guarantee 2.5, that's four times less. An employee with ten hard rags ends with the end, and you convince us that a pensioner with 2.5 next year has enviable social security. Since it can't go through, then there's a different story – there's no means. Have you tried anything in that relationship between a personal coefficient that is limited to four as maximum? Have you been looking for room for some internal redistribution in terms of retirement classes, etc? You haven't tried, because you've moved on to the system, though, you've accepted that system of points, which you consider justified. But he carries all the injustice out of a working relationship. The injustice from working relations was that, for example, a graduate economist in a textile industry shared the fate of the textile industry, and a graduate economist in a bank shared another fate. Is our salary a reflection of work and work results? It's been re-painted to pension-involvement insurance. When the state gives a guarantee, then it must guarantee that it gives in one objective way – that what is the lowest amount, let it be one, guarantees social security, and maybe another two or three little higher classes, which indicate that someone was an academic, that someone was doing another job, etc. It is an injustice that all the injustices of working relationships are repainted in pension insurance. Evidence of injustice: Here, take a construction worker who works with a private or a company. He receives ten-fifteen thousand a month, but if you hit him in private, he takes that money in two days. Now, what kind of work was it? Is he adequately rewarded? It's not. It's all going over here. So I keep pleading for a whole new program, a whole new way, a new style of thinking about this problem, with quite transitional solutions. There is some attempt in Macedonia. I say "try"; they read the Serbian Radical Party programme, but they didn't understand. That's what we wrote about in 1994 in the SRS program. All three pillars are represented. Then the younger one criticized it and said that it was no good, no one can live and understand it, and now it represents the same thing. However, this second pillar has forgotten, he is not interested. He cares about the third, more than the first. In that sense, I can't say that the adoption of this SPS amendment solves the problem, but it alleviates the problem. We'll vote for that amendment. We couldn't stand the amendment. Why? Because it's impossible to correct what was wrong in 2003, and you're constantly wrong. It can't go into one objective norm, which presupposes to be a rule, to bring something like this in. Look, you in attitude 1 say - on January 1st, 2006. Well, there is no law on pension-inhabited insurance, nor does it change in these principled provisions due to 1 January 2006. There must be an objective norm, so to say – the minimum amount is guaranteed, which is determined... How? At 25 percent of the average, in the previous year. Now, there's a problem of the year and a reckoning at the credit system. I can't call you back. That's what we explained in 2003 when we submitted amendments against the new pension accounting system. You see how everything comes under its control. And then Matkovicka was faced with the problem of how to determine the minimum amount of pension, so she said – due to rights acquired, found state plus alignment. You kept doing it and there was a vacuum. He's gone. That amount does not guarantee security. The question arises whether these amounts should be paid at all. Can anyone say – what's the lowest amount, that's the unit, the social particle that guarantees the minimum. No one can say that, not even those people who have submitted the amendment. They're aware they didn't help anything. Basically, it's no help at all. It's this reflection of social policy in the pension-involvement fund, where it appears, let's say, that internal solidarity between the insurance companies, but the state guarantees. If we were to go through that system to guarantee the minimum, then she would probably have to pay for it from the budget. Don't be too scared of the IMF. Let them go. Let them run their own policy. Let them dictate to their countries there, which are rich. We have another problem. We have a problem with how to survive our nation. I can't be criticized for trying to survive the nation. You'll never be attacked by Serbian radicals if you go towards that goal. We know it's a hard time. We know of all these curves that are happening, these acts – these shifts, and resignations, and this, and that. We know that there are forces that need to destroy an army that needs to destroy the state tissue of this country. Whenever you move to help, by respecting certain things, and preserving the nation, you have the support of Serbian radicals, but we don't see that support here. In this amendment, we see some minimum change. If we had submitted the amendment, if we had settled it in principle, you wouldn't have deliberately adopted it. That's still so out of your mind. You wouldn't adopt. Why? Well, here, we had in principle a discussion of a man who said, "For the past ten years, everything has been eaten, the fund has been destroyed," so the minister, who probably has the data, came out and said, "from 25 years ago, this problem exists. And there's been a problem for 25 years. Why? Because the system is set up badly. There's no man in that system, no insurance, as an individual. Of course, when there are fractures in the economic sphere, when the number of insurance companies decreases, when the possibility of payment of contributions is reduced, of course there is a problem with pensioners on the other hand. If it's still starting with macroeconomic innovations, where it's getting lost on the substance, then it's a disaster, then it's all clear. So we have a system problem here. This doesn't solve that system problem. This just holds water, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19897	I thank Mr. Krasic. Dusan Petrovic, head of the DS-Boris Tadic parliamentary club, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19898	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I congratulate all the citizens of Whisper to the Little Lady. It is a celebration to be celebrated in Šapco and today begins the Sabbath fair. I want to say what is, of course, important about Mr. Bushettic's amendment. The Democratic Party will support the amendment. It will support him because, if adopted, he will neutralise the bad consequences of the law that, if adopted in this assembly, 1.3 million pensioners will put in a much worse position than they are in today's position. To be honest, I don't understand why Mr. Bushetic, explaining an amendment that corrects the law, found such reasons against the Democratic Party. I understand Mr. Bushettic doesn't like DS, and I don't find that hard to understand at all. The Democratic Party and the late DS President Zoran Djindjic managed to remove Mr. Busetic and his party from power in Serbia and to break the agony in which the country was in, but since we are talking about the pension law here, it is very important that we have a causal and consequential series in thinking and that we have a fully consistent and consistent discussion of all the facts. So, Mr. Busetic, I ask you a question, if this law, including the amendment that you have proposed, is it going to be better or worse for pensioners in Serbia than for the law adopted in 2003 by this assembly, during which the Prime Minister was Zoran Zivkovic and Minister Gordana Matkovic? You might think I'm the one who's been crying here. I defended 1.3 million pensioners because I find it unfair for the oldest population in Serbia to bear the greatest burden of transition, because I think it is really inhuman and unfair that people who have increased health care costs, because pensioners buy more drugs and are treated more than people who are 30, 40 or 50 years old, because they are almost completely deprived of the possibility of filling their budget in another way -- it's hard for me to imagine someone at 70 or 75 years old that they're going to do some work on black to make 500 or a thousand dinars, so I slightly increased those benefits that they get based on pension. So, biologically, or whatever you want, pensioners are the most endangered category and I am deeply convinced, and that is what the Democratic Party thinks, that it is unfair, inhuman and inhuman to beat the cost of transition to Serbia through pensioners and their humps. No one can be spared suffering because we must turn our society into a modern society, because our country must become an effective state – neither people who work in the administration nor people who work in education, nor those who are in health care, nor pensioners. Of course, that's why the review was carried out, one major change in the pension system in 2003. A measure has been found. By this law, the measure is disrupted because pensioners will be in a worse position than they are now. As I am able to understand, you will vote for this law. (Toma Busetic, from the post: Not unless our amendments are adopted.) ) If an amendment is adopted that the average pension cannot be below 60% of the average profit, I think Minister Lalovic, Minister Dinkic and Prime Minister Kostunica will have major problems with the IMF. I have no problem with that fact because the government of the Republic of Serbia has negotiated with the IMF. The government of the Republic of Serbia has taken a poor commitment and these commitments should break over the pensioners' back. It is really much more important for pensioners to be protected than for the poor obligations the government has made to become an integral part of our lives, but we will see when the vote comes that things will stand. If we keep an important share of the salary increase in pension harmonisation weight, this law, which is most important to us on the agenda of these laws, which is the law on amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, will lose the essence of the intention, the essence of the government's intensities to amend it and, as Minister Dinkic explained to us, these transfers of 100 billion dinars to reduce, which are so big in 2005. Let's see, if you don't adopt that amendment, Mr. Busetic, you and I here in front of Serbia and all these people who are looking to say -- if the government and parliamentary majority don't adopt the amendment that the average pension is not 60% of the average earnings, the SPS votes against amending the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. The pensioners don't care if the amendment was submitted by Mr. Bushetic or anyone else, they care how many pensions there will be and that's what we're talking about here. This is bad law. As a result of the government's irresponsibility and inability to negotiate with the IMF to, in this way, reduce the right of the weakest part of the population, provide the possibility for the state to reduce its consumption and thus hold a contract with the IMF. So, as a result of the bad negotiation today is a conversation about this law. For the citizens of Serbia, it is much better that this law is not passed, because a huge number of our population will manage to maintain at a certain level of standard, and the essence of all this is, and it is a pity that Mr Dinkic is not present and Mr Lalovic has to deal with economic indicators, that there are no essential and economic reasons that would be irrefutable evidence that the pension system will collapse unless restrictions are made in spending relating to pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19899	I thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Otherwise, the love between the SPS and the DS is mutual and you're absolutely right. We're too happy to take you off in 2003, and you're pleased to have us off in 2000. We believe the people are better off because we took you down in 2003, but it's up to the people to decide. The word has Tom Bushetic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petrovic, if our amendments are adopted, the pensioner's position will be the same. What's crucial is our next amendment. So the average pension is going to be 60% of the average salary. Today, the average pension is about 60% of the average salary. Who's to blame for the average pension coming from 90% of the average salary to 60% of the average salary? It's DOS, it's the Democratic Party. It was you, Mr Petrovic, and your MPs two years earlier who adopted so-called Swiss formula. Overnight, the average pension from 90% of the average salary came to 61 or 62%. So in two years, the average pension from 90% to 60%. We are now preventing this amendment from further collapsing pensions and pensioners' positions. I think it's a key amendment. When you talk about pensioners need more treatment, that's true. But it's not just pensioners anymore. Everyone's getting more treatment. We had an aggressor bombing, and so many people are now suffering from cancer, about 40% more than in some previous time. You and your government have never been prepared to seek compensation from these war criminals, Clark, Clinton and all those who bombed us for no reason, but it's your policy, your party's policy, DOS policy. It means no dignity, no reciprocity, everything the bosses from abroad say. That's why we're in this situation. When you talk about how Djindjic shot Milosevic down – how did he take him down? Both short and rapato joined together in 2000 to remove Slobodan Milosevic, SPS and all patriotic forces. How? With the big money you got from abroad. DOS leaders got $100 million. The Resistance got $70 million. Please, a month ago, an MP who used to be a "response" spoke here, I have witnesses, he says, in Banja Luka in 2000 invites us to the CIA to give us instructions and tell us how we should bring Milosevic down, and he's done, and he's cleared it. But at the end of that story, he and one of the "retor" leaders say -- we go home, and the bag is in the trunk, I say let's stop and see what it is, come on; $200,000 got those two. Of course, that honorable man who is now an MP in the Assembly, I'm not going to say his name, he says - I don't accept this, because if the CIA gives us $200,000, what did she give the DOS leaders? The meeting was attended by all DOS leaders: Vuk Obradović, Batić, who did not. What did they get? So you've got a lot of money to take down that patriotic power. You made a false promise to the citizens of Serbia -- 6 billion coming, there will be European wages, factories will work, we will solve Montenegro, we will solve Kosovo and Metohija. What's the situation today? It's a disaster. You haven't solved any of the issues, not Montenegro, not Kosovo and Metohija, all the factories you've closed, 500,000 people you've forced out. It was your policy and now you're talking to us – Djindjic brought down Milosevic. Not much about Djindjic, it's not nice to talk about him at the moment, but the fact is that he called on the NATO pact to bomb us as easily as possible, because it'll be easy for the government to fall. That's true. Both he and Milo Djukanovic were in Western Europe on those days and weeks and said as many bombs as possible should be dropped on Serbia, as that authority will fall. I have to warn him, and when I like him, I have to warn him. That's the truth about all that. Just a few more words about the IMF. You are all prisoners, and you and these now in the government who are, you are in mortal fear of what the IMF will say, but all those stories about the IMF and that we could justify to you if something were better for Serbia, and in Serbia is getting worse and worse, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19901	I thank you, Mr. Bushettich. For the replica or the Rules of Procedure; you must according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Petrovic, since you cannot, you have challenged the replica. It doesn't matter that you're the head of the Parliament Club, there's no privilege to function, only by the Rules of Procedure you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19902	I'm not making a question, Mr. Vice President. I'll do it by the Rules of Procedure. So, while you, Mr. Bushettic, were part of the government, the average pensions were really closer to the average. You were talking about billions. Here's one big product of your government: So 500 billion dinars, that history has never recorded anywhere. It's you, Mr. Bushettiche. So the average pensioner was receiving a share of 500 billion, and believe me, I was just counting zeroes, it took me a few dozen seconds to figure out what money this is about. This is how the state is run, but it's one side of things. On the other hand, you said something here that you and your party colleagues often say and that has nothing to do with the truth, but it has to do with the truth that you support Kostunica's government, and you insult Kostunica's government, and you vote for Kostunica's government's laws, and you vote for Miroljub Labus, you vote for Mladjan Dinkic. I don't understand your political position, Mr. Bushettic. Are you the government or are you the opposition? You want to be the opposition, and you vote for the government. That's what confuses the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Busetic, but I'll try to explain to them what it's about. There is nothing you wouldn't do to remain an assistant, support and pillar of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Since you have come to such a position you know better than I and the citizens of Serbia, you who have been a party that has managed this country for 10 or 11 years, you who have managed to make these 500 billion as a bill, have no political topics, no pensioners, no NIS, no other political dialogue or debate on any issue that you will not vote for Kostunica's government to be held, because you probably think that you will completely disappear from political life when Kostunica is no longer at the head of government. This government will come down from the political scene sooner or later, and then, Mr. Busetic, you explain to the pensioners why you voted to be worse than it is today, you explain to the NIS workers why you voted to put the NIS Act out of force here, which is why you gave up the right that this assembly has to give the final word on the privatisation of NIS. That time will come very soon, and it will not help your incorrect claims about bombings, or how anyone behaves, or who protestes, or who doesn't protest. Answer me, Mr. Busetic, why the government that you support and whose component you are – because on boards, at the head of the boards of directors, you make important decisions, you influence important decisions, you keep all prisons in Serbia (I don't know what you needed prisons for, the managers of all prisons in Serbia are Socialists, I guess you have experience with that) – did not ask for compensation from those NATO countries that bombed Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19903	Replica, MP Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19904	Mr. Petrovic, there are many stories about 1993. I know you didn't just wave that money, all the DOSs waved, but you have to understand one thing, but obviously you don't understand it: in 1993 it was a unique year, so it was a very difficult year, and that inflation was only in that year. That time was a wartime, when we had to help our brothers through Drina, when we did everything to educate ourselves, to survive Republika Srpska and what you must know is that the people of Serbia or the Serbian people, as I like to say, understood it best in 1993 and all our difficulties. You know, Mr Petrovic, that the Socialist Party of Serbia received the largest number of MPs in December 1993, 123 MPs. Today, any party can only fantasize about that number of MPs. So, the people mostly understood this fight of ours, the people in the vast majority supported us. Let me tell you, our problems were great, because a good part of the people in Serbia led by your boss, your party was doing a traitorous job. You kept asking yourself these years – so where is the war goal, what is the war's goal, don't let people go to war, so don't help Serbs through the Drina; you were always negative towards the fundamental patriotic issue of defending our people's interests through the Drina. It was our policy in 1993, and the people understood it well. Don't wave that money again. At the beginning of 1994, when the government of national unity was formed, we introduced a stable course of dinars and we know how everything went. After that, average salaries and average pensions in 1995, 1996 and 1997 were at 200 or 300 marks. Someone will say -- that's the same money as this, because 200 marks in 1995 and 1996, it's like 200 euros in today's situation, but at that time and those years, 1995 and 1996, 200 marks could buy anything; municipal services, electricity, it was all about 20 marks, and it was much more valuable than 200 euros today. When we talk about this fight and about 1991, 1992 and 1993, what is especially amazing, and even today it is manifested, in the correctness of our policy, not only did the citizens of Serbia believe, later many politicians, by Lord Owen, even that unfortunate Van den Bruk, all admitted that Serbs were not guilty of wars, that we were forced into it. Lord Owen said in his book that the war had been imposed primarily by Germany, and the Vatican, that it was a huge mistake to recognise Croatia and Slovenia prematurely. It was all true, but you never admitted it. You and today, so many years later, you're just talking about how we didn't know we were running politics, how we didn't know to set up well, how we couldn't negotiate well with an international factor. What is the situation in Serbia today? Where are those negotiations you're having? (President: Time.) ) Your President Tadic, as a headless fly, no longer knows what he stands for or what he wants. So, at least you have reason to talk about how we're going to vote today when it comes to this law. According to our amendments and our proposal to the pensioners, it won't get any worse, and it won't get any better, until we're in power again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19905	National MP Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19906	It's true that inflation was one topic, but what about the old foreign savings, Mr. Bushettic? What about Jezda, Dafina, what about the loan for the Serbian rebirth? You're the one who stripped and robbed the citizens of Serbia. There's no stone left on the stone. When you fell out of power in 2000, the average profit was 50 marks, which is now 20-25 euros. Yes, it was the average pension of 95% of the average earnings, as much as 95% of the 20 euros came and you paid when you could. As much as you could, you paid so much, and since the poor state could, you were weak and paying. That is why this debt that is now regulated, among other things, and the law on turning debt towards pensioners into public debt, the law is on the agenda. That's one thing. The second thing, I'm really impressed that you're interpreting the 1993 election results, how you got 123 MPs. It is widely known, Mr Busetic, that the purely Albanian villages in Kosovo voted massively for Slobodan Milosevic and voted in favour of the SPS. I don't know what happened when they took the guns in their hands after a year or two, so they changed their political position so quickly. Mr. Busetic, you drove your votes out of Kosovo by trucks and thus managed to hold the parliamentary majority until 2000, when a million people had to come out in the middle of Belgrade to drive you out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19907	The truth is, let's get the information out. Serbia was not one electoral unit, but Kosovo and Metohija were a special electoral unit. Therefore, even when it bounces from Kosovo, the SPS then received 103 MPs. The fact that the Albanians loved us, love us both now and then, just not a large number. Here you go, Mr. Bushett, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19908	Mr Petrovic, when it comes to votes from Kosovo and Metohija, these are lies, like, trucks brought voices. That's not true. Make sure you're all right. The Cypriot in Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the electoral body, was no more than 500,000 at the time. Count on all 500,000 of us brought in and that's our vote. You know, Slobodan Milosevic won 3,260,000 in the first election in the 1990s, on the second 2,560,000. Today all leaders in Serbia can dream of that figure. Today in Serbia, we do not have a voting body to go to the polls in that number. Milosevic is incomparable with all your leaders. The most important leader in the Balkans and Europe is Slobodan Milosevic, with the huge support of the people, because he had the right policy. So, that story of yours that we brought votes, that doesn't matter. When Milosevic lost the election, when he won less, he did not lose, he had two million votes; it was supposed to be the second round, but you came to power with the coup, burned down the assembly, television, what you were doing. They cannot compare Milosevic and Tadic. Tadic got 800,000, so he's the leader, he's the president, so he's supported by Serbia, so he's beautiful. Take him home if he's pretty. As far as Jazda and Dafina are concerned, the state has not guaranteed both the Horse and the Dafina. Who saved that? A lot of people I know have never saved at the Dafina and the Horse. Where's the interest 20% a day? Cheats are possible everywhere. The second thing, when they imposed sanctions on us in 1992, society was criminalized. They did not impose sanctions just to make us live better, but to criminalise society, in order for Serbia to come into the situation it came into. That's true. But it's not the biggest Jad and Dafin robbery. The biggest robbery is privatisation. It can no longer be fixed easily. You sold cements at what value is the value of a cement factory. You've installed tenders, only three companies could compete for cementers, and you've set it up, 7.5 million must have annual production, so they can compete with Holcim, Lafarz and this third Greek. Of course, it's all done because of the big commissions. A few days ago, I said, and here, DOS MPs were talking about Djelic, this little mouse, taking $15 million, and the judicial authorities are doing nothing. Here, Marijan Risticevic said two years ago, and "Kurir", the front page -- two thugs took $15m, stamps or euros from cement, means privatisation. Now it's justifiable that in all the privatisations you had nice commissions. That's what it says about one of your top ministers, he was in charge of Lukoil, to take a commission, the other one for the tobacco industry, the third one for that, etc. Besides, your MPs here, DOS leaders, said your former president was good about 300 million dollars. That's all the presses she passed on. Now it's up to us to believe or not to believe. I believe that's how it was. That robbery was the biggest robbery, and those assets can't come back easily now. The cement store was sold, the brewery sold, the tobacco industry sold. It's a disaster. So if we're making any comparison between you and us, it's a clear thing. What you just asked me is a key question – why do we support this government? This government is so bad, it's better for a shade than this one. The people need to see everything. They saw us from 90 to 2000. It was hard, but honorable time. They saw these DOSs by 2003 and drove them away because the entire coalition received 400,000 votes. All the votes were against DOS. Now they need to see this government, too, but we need to wait a little. The Serbs need to see everything. If we crash at this point, they'll say -- it's not the accession and stabilisation agreement that came, if it was signed, we'd live better. We'll hold out and have that deal signed. We know it won't get any better. Then the people will be able to properly appreciate the contribution of every government. There is another problem: if we withdraw at this time, the "yellow" will come, Petrovic will come. It's the biggest disaster.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19909	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19910	In addition to many of the wrong things that Mr. Bushetic said, he concluded with one truth – the Democratic Party will come to power very quickly. You probably won't voluntarily go into opposition or put yourself in a risky situation to go to elections, pass or not pass the censorship, but the time has come, so in the elections we'll see how things are and whether your decision to help Kostunica's government was good or not good. I think the result is more than evident. Unfortunately, in this area we run here, you really, in my opinion, have crossed the line of good measures and taste and accused people of taking money; you have instructed the writing of the daily press as evidence, which, of course, is not only unfair, but represents a bad manner. What I can tell you in answer, I won't tell you what the press says, or the yellow, or any other, and of course it says about all of them – the thing is that they already rule on many things that happened in the 1990s and 2000s. As you know, the first-degree verdict was given to the defendants and accused of the murder of Ivan Stambolic and was mentioned in the explanation for the verdict by Slobodan Milosevic. It's not a press release, it's a court decision. You, Mr. Bushettic, have opened that topic and taken the paper as evidence. I'm calling for court rulings. I'm not saying whether they're good or not, but I'm just saying that the first-degree court ruled that the head of state, Milosevic, was convicted in the first degree for issuing the warrant and organising the murder of Ivan Stambolic. (President: not true. It's not a formula, don't blame it. ) The Vice-President has constant comments, but well, and this is an integral part of the parliamentaryism we live in. At the very end, Mr. Bushetic, you have a problem with President Tadic, I don't know why. Boris Tadic was elected president of the state by receiving 1,700,000 votes in times when a large number of people do not go to the polls, when a large number of people because of the gogot he passed in the 1990s believe politicians cannot solve their problems. It also reduced turnout compared to 1990 when there were indeed many worlds, because parliamentaryism and multilateralism were a new category and a new phenomenon, because a large number of people felt that through political decisions they could solve their life issues and go to elections; and of course the parties were getting more than in today's times and of course that candidates for presidents were getting more than in today's day. On fair terms, unlike when you were in power, when you were more or less able to appear in the state media, when the private media was not there, in a fair game and on equal terms with the other candidates the president of the state received presidential elections and conducted his presidential programme. He is an ambassador to the Serbian economy and is now doing so in America, as he did in Libya, China and Russia. He's trying to get information on what hurts Serbian citizens, and that's why there's a National Office. As much as it is in its power, within our constitutional system, it is fighting for the interests of Serbian citizens and of course it will do so in the future and it is doing it in a very good way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19911	I pray that when we quote the newspaper, we quote correctly. It is not Rade Markovic accused, nor convicted of organising, but completely for something else. The second thing, when it comes to media, is that there have been 300 local TV and 500 radio stations in Serbia since 2000, and according to the current minister, everything has been funded by some on the side to help the opposition. Here you go, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19912	Mr Petrovic, I didn't think the Democratic Party would get the largest number of votes, but it is a great danger to reunite this DOS company and not educate a government that would be a disaster for this country, because it was until 2003. This disaster, the most devastating government in Serbia, was your authority, DOS power. This thing about Slobodan Milosevic, you've made so many lies throughout your power, and today so many lies are the media, B92, all the newspapers, all the magazines, that it's a shame. We knew from the beginning that there were no dilemmas that Slobodan Milosevic was neither involved in the murder of Ivan Stambolic nor in the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic. These days, this stale Minister Mihajlovic writes a message to Slobodan Milosevic and says – I know, I have inconclusive evidence that you are not involved in the murder of Stambolic or in the attempted murder of Vuk Draskovic. We've known since the beginning. You know who did this? Read "The Guardian", where it is said that behind all the political murders in Serbia are foreign intelligence services, criminal structures and Serbian Quisling, and you see who is the Serbian kvisling. I'll give you that newspaper, and you'll read it. So don't talk about it anymore, because you got bored with God and the people, and that's an orderly lie, like many lies were told during 2001, 2002 and 2003. When we talk about Boris Tadic, so you boast that he won a million and a half votes, he got when everyone gathered together; he got 850,000 and compared to our leader that's five times less. Who can compare Milosevic and Tadic? He's going, he's going to see Libya and China. What's he doing in Libya and China? You had a programme until 2000 that we only had ties to Libya, China and Russia, and first you ran, Boris Tadic, to try some arrangements to make. You boast of free trade with Russia. That's what we did. It is the time of the government of Mirko Marjanovic and the authorities of Slobodan Milosevic and the SPS. Therefore, Tadic pledged to be an ambassador to the economy. Where's the contract closed? He's responsible, he's the president of the state. What's better in Serbia than when he's president of the state? It's getting worse and worse. He opened the People's Office, there's this Gilas, and it's important that he got a good hold of his advertising on RTS, and that's your policy. So it's quite clear that there's a big difference between us and you. We are not afraid of you, but I think your authority is the most devastating and worst solution for Serbia would be if you were in power again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19913	Does anyone else want to talk about this member? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19914	Mr. Angelkovic, I have one remark, you made the whole distraction when you realized that in 2003, the DOS regime was deposed in the way you described it. I must remind you that this was done by the Serbian Radical Party, 23 MPs of our party, including your colleagues. But not to deal with the thesis and to deceive the public when it comes to the state of the Serbian political scene and the influence the parties currently have on the electoral body and what their rating is. It is quite obvious that whenever there are elections, and we will do everything possible to be the early parliamentary elections in Serbia, the majority of voters will certainly get an SRS. This is the result of our hardworking, persistent work and the fact that we are only telling the voters in Serbia the truth. Today, when we talk about the pension law, we don't just talk to pensioners, as a target group and a future electoral body, even though they trust Serbian radicals the most, we also talk about those who still need to be able to retire, their children, their grandchildren, because this law, in view of the long run, as promoted by the minister and the Republic government, brings growing uncertainty to pensioners and those who need to retire. Article 79 of the existing law, which is actually amended by Article 21, proposed by Mr Lalovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, suffered changes related to the limited amount, the highest amount of pension. It's about Article 78 and a coefficient that can't be greater than four. However, when you changed this article 79, just like many in the hall, you confused some things and you wrongly suggested, I am now speaking to the ministry gentlemen, because the minister is no longer here, Dinkic is gone from the first day, because he is still, unfortunately, the one who cares about public finances; you are talking about Article 43, and in fact in this article he should have been incorporated, as so far, a member of the 42nd basic law. Article 42. The law states, in relation to Article 79 and 21 respectively, which are defined categories of insurance undertakings. He says – insurance workers - employees working on jobs where the insurance internship is accounted for with increased duration and who can, under special conditions, exercise the right to retire are services such as: Security and Information Agency, employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Take Vuk Draskovic out of this, he will definitely have to retire to disability one day, because with this incompetence he cannot count on going to an old age, as defined here. Then, employees of bodies and organisations working on counter-radio-scan operations, authorised officials for the rules on the enforcement of criminal sanctions", etc. You tried Article 21, or an existing member of 79, to define a disability pension for these persons who are said to be a special group of persons who have an unfettered job experience. It's simply impossible, because when they come to a certain age and, under the law of the prescribed conditions, they are calculated by that well-infected working experience, then they go into retirement. That is why in the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we have made it clear that the error is corrected because you have wrongly called for Article 43. He's just referring to an old age, not a disability pension. At the same time, this amount shall be held for the highest degree of limited pension, as referred to in Article 78, i.e. with the highest coefficient of four. A story that is particularly interested in the most vulnerable layers between pensioners and Serbian citizens persists. If you know, and I don't believe that all MPs in the ruling structure know, what is the lowest pension in Serbia, 6,200 and something, nearly 6,300 dinars, who is it that will tell us, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what is the highest pension in Serbia? We'd like to know, if you're talking about the most vulnerable, and it's clear that you don't want to worry about them, especially because of Article 22 and the way the next pension account is going, because those who now have 6,300, whose pension is the lowest, are going to have this kind of reckoning, in this nominal amount that's in the dinars, in a few years' time half less; if you compare, what we're going to do when we talk about Article 22, what they can buy from that consumer basket. We are now keenly interested in Minister Lalovic telling us, he must have the information, Dinkic would have to have it, but he has a lot of work to do, he is involved in the deception of the people in Kula and everywhere, to explain to us what is the highest pension, who are the ones who have the largest pension in Serbia. And in that comparison, you'll see clearly what astronomical figures are. We know that hypothetically Bogoljub Karic, one of the biggest frauds in this country, could also have a million euros in pension, if his salary is 328,000 euros, or how much he will report for next month. Tell us, since you do not want to deal with the lowest, most endangered categories in the way our party proposes, that pension coordination is done differently, which are the users of the highest pensions, to correct this, because it is absolutely pointless to delete Article 42 from Article 79. The law and that you want to incorporate, as regards the special group of insurance companies, the category of disability pensions in Article 79. That's impossible. There's only talk here about their benefited internship. It has nothing to do with the disability category.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19915	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been dealing with a lot of questions, I'd say quite irrelevant, given the law that's on the agenda. Somehow, they all swear on their left-wing ideas, not counting one or two political parties in this House. Everyone's talking about the rights of workers, the rights of pensioners, the rights of those who owe this country the most and this people. Finally, when it comes to resolving their key issues, their key problems, then party trade, then party agreements, agreements on the survival of authorities, are incomparably more important than that. It's something we have to change in this high house. I'm sorry these people are sitting here in the front row. I'd ask - where's one minister, where's the other minister? What better things do they have to do? Don't let anyone from G17 come forward and tell me something, because I'm going to answer something that's going to hurt your head. You'll hear what kind of vicious con men they've been dealing with and what they've had time for. I'd better keep my mouth shut until I get an official report from the authorities. You'll hear, you'll be amazed at what the con men did. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is bad law, criminal law. Where are your ministers, where are those two ministers? What do they have to do better today? What do they have more important today than taking care of the law they've put on the agenda and trying to convince the pensioners that they'll get better off that law? I guess it's more important to convince the pensioners that they'll be better off than to convince the IMF or anyone else. I've got a lot of telegrams, and I'm going to give you one of these this morning that says, "Please, Mr. Alexander Vukic, since you have parents, and the rest of you have parents, to pass the law according to this model, to increase your pension once a year, it's sad and embarrassing, so we ask all of you MPs not to respect it, because we're living to eat bread. Pre-grateful, Mirko Milaković, on behalf of the pensioner of the village of Kumodraž." It's not funny. I've only read what one of the people who feels that way is, and these G17-plus unfortunate people are laughing. I've only read one of the countless letters, the telegrams, that arrive at our Parliament club, and I'm convinced of your MPs' clubs. People seek protection, seek to live from what they have earned, from what they have earned over the tenth years of their work. Today in our society, we have a terrible relationship with the pensioners. It's not just about whether the pensions are on time or not. Somehow, as if everyone is racing to tell the pensioners – you are not important to us, we will take care of someone else. The pensioners built our cities. The pensioners are responsible for the vitality of our villages. Everything we have today, that's what our parents, our grandfathers left us. We didn't do it. We're just expected to leave something for our children. And do they decide anything? Does anyone ask them? Do you laugh at every letter and every telegram of any pensioner? Because it's much more important to you what you're going to do in the Property Directorate or some other public enterprise, or what a combination you're going to make. I think it's a shame. Serbian citizens, especially pensioners, expect a different and unmatched better relationship, in line with what you promised them. Now the age limit is increasing. Once a year, we'll coordinate with the cost of our lives. We can set it up any way we want. Who's going to figure out how and how many times on an annual level are pensioners going to get less than those who work? And they've already earned everything. It is not a question of whether they will be worthy and diligent; they were worthy and diligent during their working days. Now all they have to do is live, so they can buy their grandkids something, so they can take care of their children. We make it impossible for them to pass such a law. I know the state went on a business trip, and it's taking longer. I figured it out last night and New Sad. And at least we have time and courage should have us criticizing those who are far more successful than we are. Fat's gone to waste. We're all gone. It disappears slowly in front of us. We are slowly preparing the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. We're not doing anything. Instead of sending e-mails to all world addresses, some authorities are sending e-mails from [email protected] against Tomislav Nikolic to say that Vukic is against him. You bastards! I'm waiting for the report, so I'll let you know. I already know, I got information from the police and the computer was sent from. I'm just waiting for them to make official instructions to press charges. You should be ashamed and ashamed. That's what you do. Instead of dealing with how you're going to save the country, how you're going to keep your pensioners from starving, you're dealing with fraud and fraud. Get the lieutenants in there, Captain, I don't know who either. Why don't you go after the Minister? Why don't you go after Davinic, Dinkic, Marovic? Why aren't you chasing thieves at the highest level? The fish from the head stinks, not from the tail. No, they're protected like white bears. And then let's kidnap the pensioners, so they can be even more calm, so they can live even better. And how they, the pensioners, are going to live, it doesn't matter. And they think they can do it forever, and then they go to the Tower elections. You know how they go to the Tower elections? One goes, gathers in a home in the Russian Krustur peasants, hosts, and says: "If you vote for me, you will get so many credits; then another con man from the province government comes and says: vote for me, I will give you 20 million, but if you can vote for someone else, just don't vote for the radicals." Is that your policy? That's all you do, nothing else. So I ask both the people in The Tower and elsewhere in Serbia to show their desire for change, to show that they will not be corrupt and criminal government, to show that Serbia has enough power and energy to start changing things and to oppose it, to return the country to this country, to the most beautiful and only country we have. And she seems to have gone on a very, very long official trip. In no sphere of social life, nothing works. Let me ask you, how many people do this country feel like its own? How many of our flags do we have in our houses? Ask the American if there's an American who doesn't have a flag on his house? From the simplest things to who, as well as how he fights for his country. And how much you're fighting for the pensioners you've shown this law. Now some tell me an empty story – if you adopt this for me, if you don't adopt it for me, then I will or won't vote. Well, it's what you're going to vote for. I also apologize to this pensioner who sent me a telegram and everyone else who sent it. I went out to say the position of Serbian radicals on this issue, but in a way and to clear the conscience of all of us, to say -- well, we stood up, we said something against. Is there anything we can do for you? There's nothing we can do. Because you will gather, and whatever you have to vote, you will vote, just to have another day in power, to have another day's salary on the board of directors, another day's salary in a public enterprise, and nothing else. And you, citizens of Serbia, watch what you will and how you will. We don't care much. As far as Serbia's countries are concerned, there's no one on the official road to return it. I hope there is, and that is why we are dealing with politics, and I believe in both these people and many other honorable Serbian hosts, Serbian radicals, but all those who want true change and who want Serbia to be its own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19917	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19918	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, pensioners, unemployed, Serbian citizens, this is a key amendment in a law that is on the agenda, one of the key ones, but this depends on whether pensioners in Serbia will have to buy bread in a few months next year for three years. It's about basic life food, and everything else for them is going to be a mental noun. If the law is passed with Article 22, which is proposed by Minister Slobodan Lalovic and Kostunica's government, there will be a complete disaster for pensioners and all those who have to retire. Only someone who is morbid to the highest degree and who does not wish well for their nation or their citizens can think of something like this and hides behind the fact that it is a condition in negotiations with the IMF and that it is a fundamental thing that must be respected, because they are not only, as someone here said, bad and incompetent negotiators, but because of the fact that the IMF is more important to them than 1.3 million pensioners in Serbia, how many there are now and how many will be in the future, than their children. Because you know that many are forced to feed and support their children who have lost their jobs and to train their grandchildren, with such poor and miserable pensions. The consumer basket in Serbia and the way pensions are to be coordinated, careful, only once a year, with average earnings in Serbia, or with the cost of living in Serbia, is something that is incomprehensible to a reasonable man if he has this information in front of him. These are official data from the Republic Statistics Institute and those in grams, i.e. in milliliters, i.e. in kilowatts or impulses, say how much the average consumer basket costs in Serbia, I told you the day before, and now I repeat again, with false data and false prices. These groceries at these prices can't even be bought in discount stores. This fruit and this vegetable, which is also a mental noun for all pensioners starving in Serbia or the largest number of them, is nowhere in any market, not in Belgrade, not in the interior, not in the best-provided, not in the worst-provided market. Radeta's colleague, meanwhile, while you've been arguing about all sorts of nonsense and replacing thesis, calculated nicely how many cooked meals can be cooked with these groceries here. So, 23 meals, but only from vegetables, and only if you cook two meals of macaroni, because you want to convince the pensioners and citizens of Serbia that one four-member family can only use one kilogram of macaroni of white flour with eggs. That they eat pensioners and eat one family that has two children, is that normal? Would anyone in their right mind do a display like this based on the fact that he's coordinating pensions? Three meals of one kilo of rice can be cooked, but only rice and no other combination, just cooked rice, a little spicy, a little salty, and here you go, pensioners, eat, grandchildren, children. If you want to cook some of the sweet cabbage, boranium or peas in pods, as it stands here in these quantities, based on which the pension is coordinated, it's two or three meals. A total of 23 meals, no meat, no oil, no supplements, just cooked on water. A special scandal is a demonstration of the situation when it comes to the consumption of kilowatt-hours of electricity or the number of pulses spent. Let me ask you direct MPs from the ruling structure what are your bills for fixed and mobile phones? How are you not ashamed to vote for the pension to be calculated based on this cost of living, where is the landline bill 210 dinars? What do they need, standing on a fixed phone for a decoration, that eventually, God forbid, they call an ambulance or they call the police if someone's harassing them or if there's a crime around their building or where they live? How can they contact their loved ones? What should pensioners or supported members of their families do, and many of them, unfortunately, in Serbia, when they look at all that is a luxury for them, and for those who are in charge of little things today, because some of them are their wealth, such as the finance minister and the Serb tycoon with whom they are in a relationship, and those who suggest something like this, measure hundreds of millions of euros. This is a shame because Serbian citizens know that these honest and normal people would never wish them. We could never play this way with the fates of people who are old and powerless and with members of their families, who also need help, who do not have to eat. Why didn't you put in here what it cost one drug that's most wanted for pensioners, who are either heart patients, or suffer from boneache or have some other stomach or I don't know what other health problems. There are MPs among you doctors, and you know very well that the amount needed for pensioners' medicines in Serbia is far greater than those of the poor 210 dinars, as much as you provided for them to be their landline bill. This isn't just for one person. You're dividing all of that by four. When I speak, I speak in grams, as is my colleague and calculated for these 23 miserable cooked meals, from just one grocery. When we talk about dairy products, look at the case of milk or yogurt that it's two glasses a day for the whole family. If this is such a famously calculated consumer basket, i.e. these are the costs of living in Serbia with these falsely displayed prices of 23,000 dinars, this is simple mathematics, you don't have to be as smart for mathematics as this unfortunate Albianic, but make a nice calculation and see – 6,000 lowest pensions, 23,000 is this consumer basket, see if possible, these are falsely shown prices and quantities needed for one person, without the other most expensive costs included. So, the pensioner doesn't have to eat anything, let him go both barefoot and naked, don't get dressed, don't have to go to the doctor, don't have to use the meds. What does this look like? Who's gonna accept that? If you are willing, for the sake of trade and survival in power, places on boards, astronomical fees for it, or just because you think that in two or three months, one of you will do something, that in this way you will punish our oldest population and their family members and all those who follow and watch what with Serbia today, as Mr. Vukic said, the entire state leadership, and even the state, will take with them, go on one longer official trip, don't think that Serbian radicals will stop on this alone, because our fight against this way of rule and our endurance to fight for what is most necessary for the citizens from day to day will grow. You will see on Sunday, in the elections in only one municipality, in the municipality of Kula, once very well developed, where people lived much better. See what the price is for one square of living area - below each value; or, see how, for a short time, a municipality was robbed and robbed because of a corruption coalition that was in power there. Do not play, not with feelings, but with the lives of the people who deserve it the least; of course, none of the citizens of Serbia deserve it in this way. Thieves, bandits, criminals everywhere, and honest people, poor people who are old and powerless, do not give the opportunity to live, if this bill remains and this Article 22, to which the amendment was invested by counterpart Stamenkovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19919	Thank you. People's MP Zoran Krasic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19920	If the government had told us what a pension was, then probably all MPs would have their say about this member of the law, and the member is about harmonising pensions. If pension is social giving, if pension was provided by a pensioner, and I have to remind you that once the same pension was in advance because it's social giving, and now it's back, it goes long and late, then no one could suggest that pension coordination be done once a year. It used to be a monthly adjustment, depending on economic movements. For the sake of the public, I have to say, there was a time when statistics on the cost of living used to be used as a criterion, sometimes data on the movement of profits. Why were those two grounds taken? To find something to balance pensions as social giving with social needs and tailored to the economic situation in the country. The very idea of going to coordination once a year is wrong. That idea can't fix an emergency pension adjustment, as set out in the bill. In the 2003 Law, we now have a quarterly pension adjustment with a practically arithmetical collection of the average cost of living and profit growth. In order for you to understand this matter better, the government needs to swear that even employees will not grow profits in the year, but only once a year. If the government swears and provides it with its own policy, then the way you suggest it can go. But there is no government that could swear. Not because it does not have mechanisms, but because it is the opposite of economic logic. How do you limit salary and profit growth? If a man has achieved more productivity and a greater number of hours is working, he has to get a higher salary. This is indicative, since we are in the field of something that we discussed a few months ago when we talked about the Labour Act, collective bargaining, agreements, so you threw it all on NGOs, by system -- economic advice, social council, something to calm down, etc.; you ran away from responsibility and here it comes. So if pension is social giving, if pension provides social security to pensioners, then the amount of pension must somehow follow the social parameters that occur in life. In order to monitor these social parameters, pensions must also grow, in some cases and fall, if they are negative trends. We always refer to these two criteria and always the interested group refers to that criterion that has greater growth. If the cost of living is higher, then they say, we do not earn, but the cost of living, which we live on. If it's a higher profit growth, then everyone's calling for profits, because it's a higher percentage. It's a constant conflict in the pension fund, and everyone always knew about it. We have submitted an amendment that we ask to delete in the bill this idea of one pension adjustment over the year. I have to tell you, that doesn't mean we support what's in the law, that it's done four times a year. Now that the law has four times a year it's a state of activity, which gives some results; they're not good because they don't follow the cost of life. I have to tell you, we don't have the elemental conditions to change... I'm not slow, there are systems in which pension growth is once in a year, but these are those systems where inflation is between one, two or three percent on an annual basis. The substance wasn't lost in retirement. Where inflation is greater than 3%, different systems are applied. In our immediate environment, we have one country where twice a year it is coordinated, with the possibility of some extraordinary coordination, but we are not eligible for such a thing. You can technically specify once in three years of harmonisation, but whether someone will survive, because the amount of pension that is being received today must in some way follow what the social needs of the household are. So, as an objective category in society, not as a special category for pensioners only, but as an objective category. If you fail to allow the cost of your life to rise, not to allow your earnings to grow, then you can go with a provision like this, but those two things you can't stop. So there's a rise in the cost of living and a rise in profit. If you can't slow them down, then don't cut the pensioners, you don't have the options, you don't have the right, it's one social giving that man earned, it's not a gift, it's giving where the state takes the responsibility, it guarantees it. It's gonna be a long time before the state gives the pension fund. Those who speak – we will rule it out, lie to you. For a long time, the state will have to touch the pension fund. To set up a whole new system now, that there is 150% agreement on that new system, again the state will have to assist the pension fund. In order to understand the rude game of words and the rude game of numbers, I must tell you: sometimes the participation of the pension fund in public spending in the gross social product was far greater, but in 2001 these economists, such as Pitic, Djelic, Milosavljevic, Matkovic, changed the methodology, because neither the consumer basket was what it used to be. Even the calculation of the gross social product is no longer the way it used to be, in comparison to show the success of its expert authority. There has been a kind of confusion between nominal and real amount, not only of gross social product, but of all economic indicators, and even of statistics on some trends. I suggest you adopt this amendment to the Serbian Radical Party. I will also report for the two other amendments that exist for this article. I appreciate these two amendments as an attempt to correct something that the Government messed up with its proposal, but you can see for yourself what impasse we are in after the trip that was made in 2003 when the new Law on PIO was passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19921	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Zivorad Smiljanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19922	I spoke last time and presented the amount of pensions in the next 15 years, every five years, since the average salaries should grow around next year to be 300, for five years to be 300, so in 2015 400, and in 2020 500 euros. In a conversation with representatives of pensioners, first of all from Vojvodina, Krkobic said that we must, because that is what the IMF is asking us to do, and Zoran Angelkovic told us, on the executive board, in a conversation with him, that we must accept it. However, I have asked the pensioners to propose an amendment that would suit them and the pensioners have made us an amendment and I will read it to you, and it concerns Article 22, but I did not submit it because we Socialists have given a better amendment, which will bring pensioners in a better position. But the pensioners, in a panic that it would be worse, begged us to stop at least and stay on this level to keep it from going up. I will read to you the amendment, and he says – the way out of the situation is that, through amendments in the Serbian Parliament, an article is proposed to be deleted. 22nd and 75th. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO. The amendment would read: The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on PIO is deleted. 22nd and 75th. By deleting those members, it would remain in force for Article 80. The Law on PIOs that regulate the harmonisation of pensions per so-called Swiss formula - 50% with profit movement and 50% with cost of life moving. Depending on the growth and cost of living in the coming years, it is likely that there will be a need to supplement Article 80 of the law in order to prevent the constant decline of the average pension in the average income below a certain social level. If we accepted this, this clause would remain under the current law to coordinate pensions, so 50% of the cost of life, and that would lead to the 2010 average being 54%, meaning, at 65%, or 54.17% of the average salary, and in 2000, it was 42.65%. I didn't submit that amendment, because we Socialists actually suggested that pensions couldn't go down. I'll read you this amendment to Article 22 that we've submitted. It means - in Article 22. The draft law amending the existing Article 80 following Article 3 is added to the new position 4 which reads: "Pensions will be extraordinaryly harmonised from 1 January of the current year and in the case where the amount of the average pension paid in the insurance of employees for the previous year is less than 60% of the average earnings of employees in the territory of the Republic in the previous year according to published data from the authority responsible for statistics affairs. "So we suggest not to be less than 60%. What's the point? It is easy for Europe to coordinate with the cost of living, where salaries are from 2,000 to 3,000 euros, and if pensions are around 1,800 euros, and in Western Europe, wages haven't increased for years, or the cost of life has increased, and if they increase slightly, all this is coordinated. We cannot apply in Serbia what the Germans apply now, when we have an average profit of only 200 euros, in five years it will be 300 euros, in 10 years 400 euros, and in 2020 it will be 500 euros. Therefore, Serbia cannot apply what is applied in the west. I don't think those stories about how the IMF all dictates are true. Practically, they can recommend it. Slovenians did not listen to them, they entered the EU and saved themselves. So we said that we would insist on protecting the pensioner category and that it should not fall below 60% of the average salary, no matter what the IMF says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19923	If there's no more speakers on this amendment, break, since it's 13.50 hours. After the break, we will move to Article 22, where the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. Today we will only work until the end of the search in particular of this draft law, so item 1 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. Break to 14.50 hours. [[After break – 14.55]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon session. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Slobodan Adzic and Miloljub Albianic submitted to the 22nd amendment in the same text. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19925	Ladies and gentlemen, I am today when I spoke of the amendment to Article 19. The draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act issued the SPS's position, so that there is no manipulation in public, clear, public, no secrets, and three are the conditions to accept a set of pension laws. One is the integration of the pension rate (when the time comes we will explain it in detail), the second is the delay of the application of the law to raise the retirement age (also when it comes to order) and the third or first, however, it is the way of harmonising pensions, i.e. our request to preserve acquired pension values. The bill proposed in Article 22 to change the way pensions are adjusted by harmonising pensions once a year, on April 1st, with the cost of living, and from last year, unlike the one that was in force so far. Then, that pensions can be extraordinaryly coordinated when the cost of life, or when the price rises to a little over 5%. What can be seen in this article? First, that the alignment is done only with the cost of life moving; secondly, that it seems once a year; thirdly, it seems to be done in a way that takes into account the costs of the previous year and fourth, to somewhat monitor price increases by making extraordinary adjustments whenever 5% of pensions reach. Given our efforts that I was talking about at the beginning, given our position, given that we are a responsible party and that we know that we need financial consolidation of the system, but also that the state has to be guaranteed rights, we didn't say that we're not going to change anything, so long as it lasts. On the contrary, we have offered an amendment that protects pensioners' rights in these situations. Thus, we said that if the average amount of the pension of employees paid for the previous year is less than 60% of the amount of the average tax-free income and the contribution of employees in the territory of the Republic in the previous year, pensions will be outstandingly harmonised from 1 January of the current year for a percentage which ensures that the amount of the average pension for the previous year for employees in the insurance of employees is brought to the level of 60% of the average tax-free earnings and contributions paid in the previous year. That's our condition and suggestion. We think this way you'd keep the pensions of the pensioners acquired. I have to remind myself of what I said and in the principle of debate – the principle of harmonising pensions only with the cost of living is for stable countries with developed economies, for countries without inflation, so developed countries. There's nothing more than the cost of living. I also noted that something we disagree with here was taken as a basic reason – the financial consolidation of the system. We do not dispute this, but we dispute the proposal that pension is public spending and public spending needs to be reduced. We once again insist that the pension is acquired, that pension is insurance, that the worker while working pays a contribution for pension insurance not only to pay the current pension, but also to secure himself for a period of time when he does not work to have the right to receive a pension. If that's what we're talking about, in that case we think the pension has to keep that level of acquired law at the time it was acquired. This proposed law, i.e. this pension harmonisation member, confirms that pensions are small and so small that they will grow slower compared to earnings and that there will be a growing difference between earnings and pensions without the promoter predicting any protection. What's that supposed to mean? This could mean that one day pensions will fall so much compared to the average of earnings that they will even receive the lowest pensions and that at some point can become a social category, social pension and that the pension and disability insurance system will lose its meaning. For these reasons, and given that when the reform is comprehensive, when all three pillars of the pension system come to life – a mandatory, mandatory capitalised and voluntary pension fund, such a provision can be found, because there are other options that will contribute to a pensioner’s decent pension. Until then, while there is a mandatory pension fund, as it is today, we are in a position to make, as the promoter says, a reformer says, for some time, for the next ten years for which he will give the results, and in that time we have not protected the existing pensioners. They already paid a high price for pension insurance reforms once. Let me remind you, in 2002, at the federal level and in 2003 at the republican level, by adopting, first, the foundation of the pension insurance system, then the Republic Law on PIO is an important worsening of the pensioner's position. I will mention four things: firstly, not taking into account the ten best years, but all the years; secondly, lightning is, so in one day, the age limit is raised by three years for women and men; thirdly, I spoke today, the lowest pension established at the time when it was paid, lower than the existing; fourthly, a new system was introduced to coordinate pensions, so on. Swiss formula, when pensions are adjusted three months based on the cost of living and profit-by- 50%. The result, as the authorities then called it, today as if they were forgetting about it, pension system reforms, is that the pensioners were taken six pensions in a legal manner, so to speak. The result is that the cost of the reform was paid only by pensioners. I'll say one more thing: the average of pensions keeps falling from the average of 90, 85, 77, 72, 67, and now it's over 60%. It doesn't matter if we call it the average profit, whatever they want to give a name that fits anyone, but it has to be at that level, they don't have to use those words either. So, in order not to get into this situation, to protect existing pensioners, and to enable this consolidation to take place, we asked for a new position to be added in Article 22, which says that pensions must be coordinated in an extraordinary manner whenever they fall below 60% of the profit average on January 1st of the current year. Thus, by adopting this amendment, state, government, in addition to responsibility for the financial consolidation of pension-inhabited insurance, i.e. the fund, to make it sustainable, it publicly fulfils its undeniable obligation and responsibility, as a guarantee of pensioners' rights acquired from insurance. Also, the burden will not fall on pensioners alone, and the government will have an additional obligation to seek other solutions for the consolidation of the system, not only those that go on the burden of pensioners. In the end, I remind you once again, it is our condition, we do not hide it, we have spoken it openly, there are no secrets, this kind of protection of pensioners is necessary and allows to move on. In that sense, I call on the MPs to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19926	Thank you, Mr. Petronievich. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Three more minutes for the same parliamentary group, the word has Toma Busetic, and then, according to the same amendment, MP Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19927	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is certainly one of the most important members of this law. It is certain that the way and dynamics of harmonising pensions would be a bad solution for pensioners, for all current and future pensioners. Of course, this solution means slower pension growth compared to wages. But we need to know that even previous solutions - so-called. The Swiss formula also leads to very difficult solutions for pensioners, because simply by the Swiss formula we have reduced the average pension to 62% of the average salary today. So today's average pension is 62% compared to the average salary. So I say, this security proposed by the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the average pension cannot be less than 60% of the average salary, is a guarantee, is a good insurance that pensions do not go below that percentage and pensions continue to collapse. We know that our solutions by 2001 were the best solutions. We know that that's when the pensions were in line with the profit movement, with the salaries. We know that at that time, the average pension from the average salary was 90%. Those solutions were the best. This new solution, proposed by the current government, would certainly lead to the average pension being below 60% in a short time. With this guarantee of ours and our insurance, we'll have to stop this process. If we talk about some other countries in our environment, in Croatia the average pension is 55%, in Slovenia 54%, in Poland 49%, in Macedonia, 43%, in Spain, 42%, in Romania and 33% in Greece. We know this is not the best solution, but this is one minimum guarantee. We will persist in this amendment. I hope all MPs accept this amendment. He's very important. We know it's unacceptable for the IMF right now, but we've talked more than once that this government doesn't need to listen to the IMF blindly. In the principle debate, the minister said that we had to make sure that there were not enough budgets. But you know what our policy was, and today I'm talking about it -- there's no stability of the Fund without original funds. In our time, the original funds were up to 86% of the total pension needs. Today, the relationship between the original funds and the budget is 60-40%. (President: Time. ) In all these efforts to agree with trade unions and pensioners, we have found some compromise solution, a solution that is a guarantee for a while, but that guarantee is only until the next election. We can guarantee that this will be as long as we are in power. When that changes, everything can change. After all, we know when DOS came to power, in 2001, so to speak, all laws changed. The same can happen in 2006 or 2007 when elections are held. But this is our minimum condition and I think we will find the right solution and all MPs will vote for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19928	Thank you, Mr. Bushetti. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19929	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment would be fine if it had been proposed by the opposition parliamentary group, and we can now say that such a solution is better than what is in the proposal submitted by the government to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but the question is why is such a proposal delivered, to whose support those who delivered it count, from whom they expect votes. And then, for God's sake, we're going to fix it with one or two amendments, although the bad legal text is essentially going to stay. Second, where are the ministers? What is it, Mr. President of the National Assembly, that makes it smarter for Lalovic and Dinkic to do today? I know they're very smart, that they have important, important state affairs, that they talk in a duel, invented, with a lazanski for three hours, which no one will ever look at alive. I don't mind, but I have to ask you: where are the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where are they before the citizens of Serbia to explain? How are they not ashamed and ashamed to reduce the rights of pensioners, to de facto reduce their pensions, increase the age limit and destroy the position of our oldest citizens? Who gave them the right to treat our citizens that way? Is there anything more important than this high house? Is there anything more important than the National Assembly? What's more important to them? Is it to arrest any lieutenants and captains again, those who took millions of commissions, untouched? None of the ministers, the head of state, are clean; the captains and lieutenants are guilty. It's not! I brought you more telegrams. We got telegrams from Novi Sad, Belgrade, Leskovci, Vrsac, Tower, Subotics, where people pray, and I'm passing it on to you, and I know it doesn't mean anything to you or little to you, and pensioners are that you don't pass this law, that this law doesn't vote. They have nothing to do with the fact that some Carla del Ponte or someone is going to tell you that you're the leaders of the globe in the earth, and I don't know what, if they don't have to buy chocolate or a school bag to their grandchild, if they can't feed those who live with them, who can't support themselves, but they have to expect their children to bring them something, which is much, much more important than anything else. Is it enough for 60 percent of the average salary to be the lowest pension? Do we have this relationship today? We don't. Can a pensioner live, one who has 4, 5, 6 thousand pensions, can one who has an average of 10, 11 thousand dinars? Well, he can't. Since we're so worried, which we don't say, well, we MPs got a hundred grand pay yesterday, all of us. You've all got a full salary. You coming from the inside gets more. You got 80 grand, then you dropped it. This MP from G17 plus, who's drunk again and every time he's drunk, every time at 3:00 and 10 minutes here, he feels like alcohol... I ask you not to throw it away and don't sit on the bench, because it's the citizens of Serbia, but sit in your chair just as everyone else sits. I know you see white mice here now, but sit tight in the chair and behave politely in this room. Would you explain to this man how he should sit down? I don't blame him for these guys down at the restaurant, and here in the buffet, they serve brandy, and whiskey and everything. It's your private business. I don't mind that for 10 years, if he's been in some assembly of parliament, or in a republican or federal state, someone in a drunk state, but he shouldn't bother the other MPs of the National Assembly. We have a country today where you're going to pursue someone just because they think otherwise. I hear the district attorney's office, believe it or not, has filed charges against a journalist or one of the editors, Brkic. Why? Because he insulted the character and the work of Michael Polt or something. I have to ask: how is this possible and how does the prosecution not press charges for violating the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in every place, and its anthem and flag and everything that represents the Republic of Serbia? How are we not so up-to-date with state authorities when it comes to our interests and when it comes to our country? Serbian citizens just want to live normal; so do pensioners, they want to have their pensions. They cannot see that in this National Assembly, MPs receive 100,000 dinars and come to an alcoholic state at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There he is, running out. And you know he's dead drunk. Let him drink when his assembly session is over, but let's not drink during the National Assembly session. It's his private business, let him do whatever he wants. Then we'll raise our hand and you'll all raise your hand – let's put this out for me, because the government will keep working, and the IMF will praise us, and the pensioners will starve, so it's no big deal. Here, I read you the telegrams here. Look at how many there are. All parts of Serbia require that pensioners do not adopt the law. Would adopting this amendment make it any better? Yeah, it would have been easier for them, but it would have been very bad and very difficult anyway. And don't pass this law. You don't have to rule for four years. You don't have to rule forever. You weren't born in a chair. Get off the line! I'll remind you, on October 5th, Djindjic called for talks and Kostunica in the presidency about the transitional government, we said -- we're not going with any DOS party to any transitional government, it doesn't take us three months to collect papers and I don't know what, and we're out of there. No one in the chair was born. Get out of the way. Let the people decide on the choices they want and what they want and what people want to change in this country, and not to act that way—e, we, folks, take a lot of care of you, here's an amendment; if you knew, it wouldn't be without us, it wouldn't go away without us, and now you know, when the vote comes, so we have to vote, we have to, what else, we have to vote for it so that someone else doesn't come to power. Some people talk about yellow coming to power. Well, he won't. You know damn well he won't. You know well which political party is the strongest in Serbia today. And not because one of us longs very much to come to power, for, as you have seen, we are not men who will forcely do so, nor in any other undemocratic way; we will wait for elections and wait for the people's will. But don't tell your pensioners – you're doing great because nobody's comfortable and because people feel desperate, don't make your main concern in the Assembly today, instead of pensioners, be better at leading the SCG team in basketball. Well, you wouldn't. She's just a picture and an opportunity of the situation in society and how none of us are fighting for our country. And we politicians have the least rights to transfer to any player, any basketball player or anyone else, they've brought much more to this country than most of us. So I ask you once again to think about the bill in general, that you don't have to look for an alibi and excuses for your voters – yeah, we're looking for that too. Vote against this law, so let's see what kind of government it is that continues to work in that way, what kind of government it is that, when the most important law is on the agenda, there is no representative here. Because they have better things to do. What are they doing today? Who are they arresting today? Lieutenant, captain, who? And their pockets are getting fatter and deeper, day after day, week after week. You'll see how people react in the Tower elections on Sunday. Maybe someone would say that this constituency is more favourable to someone else. Here, I tell you in advance -- you'll see, because people are sick of incompetent authorities, they're sick of irresponsible authorities. They're tired of looking for reasons to justify something somewhere. Remember, no one in this House is eternal, no one's chair is eternal. You could have learned that from the past 15 years, from whatever period of history you want. Nobody burned until dawn. It's better to be honest and to leave it in time than to torture to the end and then to show that nothing interferes with the government and the rule of the citizens, you don't have the management of the people. Serbian citizens want to change. Serbian citizens want this law not to be passed. They want pensioners to have at least this age line, so you don't increase it. He wants pensioners to get at least two or three times a year to get that relationship in line with salary growth, not the cost of their lives. He wants pensioners to do a lot of things. It is our duty to give them at least what they deserve, a basic respect and that they can live a life of worthy men. Most of us have parents or at least we know, and those who don't, how much they've been struggling, how hard they've lived for their lives. And don't think about it from your angle and how much money we're going to raise here at the register. We Serbian radicals will do something to the people and bring back as much as we can. We will return through the construction of houses both in Bobište near Leskovec, and in Jasa Tomic, in Međa, and in computers for our schools and children in Kosovo and Metohija, etc., and the rest of you look to whom you return, and the people are increasingly hungry and sadder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19930	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 45th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 51. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Article 51 states: Article 171 adds Article 2 which reads as follows: "The funds of the fund can, in accordance with the Fund's act, be used for the social standard of users", it means pensioners, "up to 0,10% of the total income of the fund based on the contribution". Since this applies to Article 171, it reads in the original text or the applicable law as follows: "Retirement and invalidity insurance funds are used only for the purposes of a specific law, for: 1) pension and pension and disability benefits; 2) the cost of the work of the fund authority and for the performance of administrative, analytical, financial, administrative, technical and other pension and disability insurance activities; (3) other obligations laid down by law. "The Serbian Radical Party's amendment should be completely deleted. The government's intention was to introduce the possibility that funds could be used for the social standard of pension users, up to 0.10% of the total contribution-based income of the fund, since the government of the Republic of Serbia reportedly improves the overall standard of pension users. If we know that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the worst minister is exactly the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Mr. Slobodan Lalovic, that is why we have put the amendment in place, because we are sure that as the SRS we are fighting to prevent the purposeless spending of funds of the fund, above all for purposes not covered by mandatory pension and disability insurance. If we know that over 1,300,000 pensioners are living off these pensions, and we know that they built this country, that they have entrusted this country, that many factories have built, and that this government has sold all these factories into depravity after 5 October, a large number of workers are out of work, the request of the Serbian Radical Party is that we have to give these pensioners a life that will be decent people. How can we trust Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Mr. Slobodan Lalovic, if he himself says, in an analysis of the effects of this law, that by raising the border by two years compared to the existing solution, the period of participation of insurance companies in the pension and disability insurance system will be extended and the pressure on the budget will be reduced with regard to the necessary funds for the payment of pensions. Since 5 October 2000, the former government has first increased the age limit by three years, and this current government is now trying, with the support of the SPS, to increase this age line by two more years. The basis of all this is to reduce the pressure on the budget. Obviously, the budget is most interesting and important for the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you have, in addition, an analysis that the Government proposes, that the effect of this law is next - twice a year, not quarterly as so far, and that this overcomes the problem of lack of funds in the fund and provides for regular pension payments, which is a general interest, so two main effects are: to reduce the pressure on the budget and the general interest. First, the Serbian Radical Party is not sure there will be regular pension payments under such authority. Secondly, what we're sure about right now is that that pension won't be adequate. If we know that inflation is what it is, that the finance minister is hiding in an inadequate way that inflation, that it falsely shows how much each citizen's consumer basket is, then we are sure that the effects of this law, not counting what they want when it comes to the budget, will certainly not be realised. Since I am sure that Slobodan Lalovic, as the most unsuccessful minister in this government, will not support this amendment, I am sure that as a respected MP of the republican parliament, he will vote for the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party when it comes to voting day, as he only appears as an MP when he should vote and support himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19932	Here you are, Miss Jovanovic, looking for a word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19933	It's not your first time, Mr. President, to avoid me when I'm looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as if you don't understand why this could be the case. If you had respected the Rules of Procedure, since you should be the first among the equals here, you would have requested or interrupted the meeting until the competent ministers came to the Assembly Hall. I must warn you that you're supposed to be a precipice and a way to address the MPs yesterday told the MPs what awaits them during the working day. Minister Lalovic and Mladjan Dinkic, who obviously have a lot of work to do, were also able to inform themselves or inform them of what awaits them today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You are also aware of the fact that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is the right of the promoter, and it is such a possibility that the law can be withdrawn in the middle of a search, and even now that we are talking about amendments, therefore the law in particular, because of the fact that the proponent in the meantime realized that the law is harmful to the citizens, by the group to which it applies. In this case, it's not just pensioners, it's a lot of potentials, but members of their families who support themselves from these poor and miserable pensions. We have a situation today (and this amendment will continue to be spoken of by Mr Krasic, I mean the amendment of Dr Goran Cvetanović) that Minister Lalović – otherwise the man who has been through all the regimes, since the Broz communist time, through the arrival of DOS in this inter-periode, what he was doing, at the head of various trade unions, and now has no party, no matter, a free shooter, a free promoter – is returning something called a social standard as a category under the form of a fund, i.e. the possibility of theft and abuse. I really don't understand how it's possible for any of the MPs, including you critics, and you support the government, to sit in the O.R., and there's no minister here. This debate is pointless. Let Lalovic come and explain to us what this amendment is, what this member is. Because, you know, we don't experience the most legislative body according to your archaic rules, as you have imagined; we Serbian radicals from the first day when our president Dr. Seselj was the only MP here, and on the other hand, there were always more and more of us, today we have the most, we believe that the living word and debate for the assembly speaker can contribute to finding a solution or, if not, to that solution, explain to the citizens who is to blame. The fact that you invite us to attend board meetings and talk to the minister there, excuse me, but 81 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are not members of the committee responsible for these laws and are not bound by it, but rather wants to speak for the speaker and explain why the law is executed. Why is there no minister here, and not -- in some towers outside, going out and explaining himself with the messengers? Well, that doesn't make sense. Last time there was the Labour Act, which you were with his help, and you wanted to blame the competent congregation services, counterfeited, the minister communicated nonstop, with the coffee shop, with the MPs in the hallway. But what does that look like? Ask him to come back here and explain to us the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He did not honor us, nor do these people who send numerous telegrams, and from minute to minute couriers come with increasing telegrams of support to us Serbian radicals for defending the interests of pensioners. He did not come, nor did the government send us its report on this, in writing, what position on the amendment of Dr Goran Cvetanovic, because it is obvious that a form of robbery is being introduced, which we warn and we find it extremely inappropriate to continue working on in these conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19934	Thank you, Ms. Jovanovic, although it is not an injury that has been sought, but it has only been reported by the Rules of Procedure, I am certainly obliged to make an explanation. So all MPs received the opinion of the amendment promoters; it is also up to the minister to give the final statement, during the afternoon debate he was, now the representatives of the ministry are present and they cannot respond individually, they choose themselves. The minister is in the assembly, as you testified, and he will definitely come down any minute now. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. I'll intervene, I'm sorry, he's just a representative of the committee's proposal, I'm sorry, but I've come forward for what I've read. Of course, I say whether she accepts it or not, and all MPs have the right to attend board meetings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19935	They have the right to attend, but we do not have the government's position on these amendments. If it's printed, so now it's shared, that's another thing. We haven't won yet, but we know about the government's position. A member of the 51st Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment, demanding that the member be deleted. Why? Because something that's been thrown out unprincipledly is being introduced. Now I have to remind you that in 2003 maybe one of those things that had to be regulated in this particular way was this, and that's the social standard in the way it was before in practice. This was rejected because in 2003 it was said that the new concept of the PIO law contains only those fundamental rights, there is no obligation for some additional rights, such as rehabilitation, assistance, because it originally belongs to some other areas, but it is just and lacks funds in the pension fund that these obligations cannot be fulfilled. After two years, he returns to some percentage. Why? So, that whoever runs the fund and runs the government could sit down and deal with the pension organisations, meet them, that some chairman of the pension organization's local board there is making some lists of who's going to take a bath from the pensioners. Why? Is it possible in these conditions when one story is being run that the funds are missing, and now something else is being introduced into the law, though, is as an alternative if it appears and it's only proof that there is no concept, there is no vision of what should be done in PIO. What is much more dangerous, which has passed in this debate, that is Article 22, has passed the amendment of Miloljub Albianic. The government accepted it by hand and announced it on all mouths – twice the pensions will be coordinated. And how will they coordinate? It's not enough again. He says this, Article 22: "The pension is coordinated from 1 April and 1 October of the current year, based on statistical data, with the cost of living on the territory of the Republic in the previous six months. "You see, the government has now accepted twice, thanks to the DSS who submitted the same amendment, so it withdrew, and the G17 plus; the government is generous, it won't be once, it'll be twice. We want four times what it's like in the existing law. With all due respect to this amendment of yours, through which you of the SPS have said -- either the government falls, or this, or what you're taking here as the bottom line of harmonising the average pension, the average salary, therefore, as some degree of minimum. And you know what you did? You said like this: Kostunica eats meat every day, and all the other members of the government eat beans; on average they eat beans with meat. But that's not true. That's not true. In your amendment, you need another piece of how you get the index, right? Yeah, and there's the problem. You tied him to 60%, Ljiljana Nestorovic to 65% and these deceived you, their amendment became an integral part of the bill. It won't be once, it'll be twice, and now on all the TVs they're going to say, no, it's just work, so what the SPS did, we've done even more. It's that game that's going on with us, there's nothing more. You can't tie a pensioner's pension to it growing in the future depending on whether the average pension, and 1,200 thousand is pensioners, to be in some relationship with the average salary of 1,200 thousand employees, because the average on average gives me something to personally reflect. It's a mistake, but I appreciate your intentions. If this law passes in principle, we will support this amendment because it is far better than what is proposed, but it is still far from what is just. The government's having problems with the budget, what cares about pensioners, let the government run an economic policy so inflation is 3%, no problem will be that four times the pension is coordinated, one by 2%, another by 5%, etc., but here is the systemic problem. You'll see about that other law that's coming, about voluntary funds. There is mathematics on how to raise free funds for which there will be no obligation for years, to place these funds into charters of values issued by the state and that the state provides funds in the budget, to serve holes in its mental thinking about politics in this country. You can see how the media chooses the topics that will appear when. At a time when we need to break power around this set of laws, very significant, imaginary affairs, some stories: drive over here, drive over there, we ask for resolution, he resigns, and here he continues to rule. Every time Mladjan Dinkic starts something, he makes nice media preparation for five or six days until it comes to the agenda. As soon as it comes to the agenda, he's gone, there's a third topic now. Now the public is having fun with the generals, with the colonels, with the colonels, whether the Council of Marovic was angry or not, and on the Finance Committee he tells us about the report of the budget inspection, and there are no reports, there are only papers, photocopyed contract. No reports, no final budget inspection. When we explained to him that it wasn't a budget report, he didn't know what it was. Please take care of what's done. In 2003, it was said that this law on pension-inhabited insurance is a minimum, below it can't even theoretically go, we will go to the upgrade, the second pillar, the third pillar, to improve the status of pensioners. Now, 60% of the income -- contributions, 40% of the sea from the budget. It used to be a completely different percentage. In times of "unnatural," "red-black" coalitions, bombings, everything and everything. Now we're pushing the social standard. Why? To keep some retired officials from rebelling among the pensioners. He's moaning that he doesn't have the resources, and this is where the social standard is created. Poor pensioners think they'll all be covered by the team. No, they were never covered. It's going to be covered by a pension elite that needs to shut up, not make noises, not lift. We know that manners. The Commission for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest – inserted academics. It's an insult for an academic to be on one of those committees. Some other commissions, some experts again, by the system "shut their mouths, give them some crumbs and they'll be quiet". Don't be surprised, in the next step, you need to shut your mouth, according to the crumb system, Natashi Kandić, Sonja Biserko, etc. So, on average, you really eat meatloaf, but when you look at the plate, there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19936	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19937	One short replica to Mr. Krasic. He's a great speaker, he understands this matter perfectly, but believe that the Swiss formula is a worse solution than our amendment. Our amendment is a better solution than the Swiss formula. Why? If the Swiss formula was kept, without this amendment that's in play today, the average pension would be reduced below 60%. The Swiss formula was introduced in 2002, when the average pension from the average salary was 90%, already in 2003 the average pension was 82%, in 2004 73%, in 2005 63%, in 2006 it would be 56-57%. This amendment, where it is said that the average pension cannot be less than 60% of the average salary, is a much better solution than the Swiss formula itself. Of course the best solution was to coordinate pensions with wages, but it was only in our time. Obviously, the system has changed, both in the Assembly and in Serbia, the majority mood to go to this system, but it is quite clear that this system is devastating, because it leads to a large polarisation of society, where the mass of pensioners, the mass of workers will be with minimum salaries, the mass of unemployed without any pay, and on the other hand, 10% of the population with huge profits, with huge privileges. This amendment applies to the largest number of pensioners, to 700,000-800,000 people. If you radicals support this, it'll be good. Will these international financial organisations accept it? Of course, maybe not, but that's another question.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19938	This was a kind of replica, but I don't think the exposure of Tom Busetic was a replica of your exposure, so I'm giving you the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19939	I fully understand that it's hard to understand what I'm talking about, but it comes down to the following: I'm in favour of monthly pension coordination. If he couldn't, and he couldn't, if I had made such an amendment, it would be a revolution here, they wouldn't even want to talk. If someone proposes to coordinate once a year, I will submit an amendment asking for it to be deleted. But if one of us from a prank, as these have now done, as we consider these things, they submit the amendment and say - 1 April, 1st October, twice, the government of the obituaries accepts it, then your amendment has been disavuished, and Ljiljana Nestorovic and our amendment, because they will now step on you to support it, because they went to meet you. What you didn't understand, your amendment requires something else. You said-- average pension, average salary, synchronization is done if, so you said 60% there, etc. For my personal pension, which is below average, that average growth rate guarantees me the same or lower ratio compared to the average pension and when it is harmonised. You did not bind your amendment to the fact that it did not have paragraph 1, point 2, but you added it, and points 1 and 2 speak of retirement, of the individual category. That's what this is about. At the very least, make sure we vote for that amendment because it's an idea to stop the Sunflower pension. You have no reason to worry. And there's just one more piece of it -- who's going to do the weighting of that rate? Two averages are compared. My pension was below average, and when I get a percentage, all those above average, they'll be fine, and we below average, nothing means that percentage to us, we're still constantly stagnating. It's a mathematical problem. You put it in as a foreign body after two attitudes that talk about pension coordination as individual pensions. But it's no problem, we'll support you because we know that the idea is good - to stop the Sunflower of these pensions. I'm distracting you, they've been through something here - twice over the year, it's become an integral part of the bill. You know, it ends with a vote in principle and a vote in full, in the end. That's the prank your coalition partners made for you. That's what this is about. As far as the story of the coordination systems is concerned, this system that half a percent of that coordination depends on the cost of living, and half of it is a system that has been pushed intensively by the European Investment Bank since July 2001. However, any adverse consequences of this system can be removed by measures of current economic policy which guarantee relatively successful control of the cost of life and profit growth in some of the frameworks that are tolerable. But they created a political system where local self-government affects the cost of living, and the government doesn't want to influence. Well, you have a price bill. Have you seen the price bill we've passed? Any noise can raise prices, the government doesn't ask questions. Look at the other instruments. Here's a system to destroy the designed, designed, directed by the IMF, the European Investment Bank and all these experts with evening courses. At any point, you can run an analysis and see that it's a system error to destroy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19940	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 65th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Sreto Peric submitted to the 70th amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19941	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 70 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. I, as well as most citizens of Serbia, and in particular the category of pensioners, know why, in addition to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance at this meeting, people's MPs are offered the following draft laws: the law on the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance for certain categories of insurance undertakings and the proposal for a law on public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the commitment of the Republic Fund to employees and another category of pensioners. It's all done to confuse the pensioners and not to pay attention to what this government actually wants to do. to make it more difficult for pensioners anyway. In these amendments and the additions of the law in three ways, it was tried to do so, i.e. the pensioners of Serbia, to put them in an even more difficult position than the situation is now. You've heard that there's been a debate a few times, how many times it's been proposed and how many times it's been proposed by this bill. It is proposed that the alignment be only once, and it is miraculous on April 1st, and then Milojub Albianic proposes to do so on October 1st, so it is accepted. But let me just say today to Micko that it is 129th day since adoption, i.e. from a positive assessment of the Performance Study, and believe that the citizens of Serbia have not felt that anything is better in any segment of their lives and lives. When he explained why he would support this law, with the adoption of two or three amendments that are very important and important, he said - that we should try to get the talks started, so that it would be better. It was a positive assessment of the feasibility study on May 12th of this year, but nothing has changed. It won't change now that you give support, when they accept these two or three amendments, which is the price of your vote. Nothing will change, but Serbian pensioners will be brought into a very difficult situation. Then, the age limit -- it was 60 years old, and the DOS government increased to 63 years old, and now it is proposed 65 years for men, or 60 years for women. One amendment proposes to postpone this until 2009 or 2012, as if something special were to be achieved by the team. Nothing will be achieved by the team. Finally, the reduction of pensions as the third category that makes it particularly difficult for pensioners is the lack of a pension increase with the average salaries of employees, i.e. the earnings of employees in Serbia. Someone here said that pensioners simply won't feel anything at some later time if there are better days in Serbia. We hope it will be better, but of course after the extraordinary parliamentary elections, when Serbian radicals come to power, it will be better and then there will be some improvement, but through this law, pensioners will have nothing to do with it, because the increase in pensions is not about average earnings. It is said here that income from which pensions should be covered from 1987, earlier even, until 2004 where income was 50% relative to pension expenditure, or from contributions was 50%. You remember well that certain politicians predicted that we would import labour in 2004 and 2005. If we were to employ our citizens to the extent that this government was supposed to provide a job environment, then there would certainly be much more resources in this already existing fund and then pensions could be bigger than they are now. The government, a strike of the government, which they support and are called for, has hit the most sensitive category of people in Serbia, impacting those in Serbia who, when it comes to telephone services, utility services for water and electricity, pay the most regularly. She hit it according to that category of Serbian residents who, if you will, regularly go to the polls. We are not now entering what is their option in voting, but it is a category of population that, besides our youth and children, deserves special attention from us who are involved in politics. You know that we recently passed the Law on Higher Education and you saw what kind of relationship we have with our students and what quality, after all, we'll get when the students finish their studies. Now all we've got are pensioners and we've got to finish the job, finish it, and then we've done the right thing. Someone in their pre-election presidential campaign argued they would be an ambassador to the Serbian economy. I'd rather say he's a gravedigger of the Serbian economy, because that man promised to increase the number of employees, and there's nothing. It's a great hiker who travels from country to country, and there's nothing from the security of conditions for a better life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19942	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19943	In the next few members, the legislator virtually admits that he was wrong and I can say that he is denying himself, because how else do you interpret these members who are going, which are Articles 70, 71, 72, 73 and 74? In the form of transitional and final provisions, he finds the feller that exists in Article 19. Proposal for a law, following this amendment which it does to Article 4. A bill of law, where it increases the number of years to gain age pension rights. Then, of course, he's trying to stretch it out somehow, because he can't cut it overnight, so he can say that from tomorrow they all have to go when they're 65, because there's a period coming up. Then, in particular, when it comes to senior pensioners, it gives some dynamics about what will happen in 2006, 2007 and 2008, so that I don't read now, but to convince people, people, by the system of increasing years of internships, and by so much it is reduced as the requirement of an insurance and accounting internship that at the end of 2008, it will balance and come to the principle of 65 - 15. It takes someone to survive, because one category will appear that is not recognised by the hair of the pension right, it must wait and wait for the year to reduce the necessary retirement period, so of course next year it comes true. It's taking a while. It's being delayed in a very unprincipled way. But I have to tell you that this principle that you want to establish, 65 years old and 60 years old, you will only see how painful it will be for this country. Do not compare Serbia to Germany. If you're making that comparison, then you're starting to make a mistake. Do not blindly stick to data and statistics on the number of insurance companies, the number of pensioners, average earnings, average pensions, public finances, etc. They are not the alpha and omega of life in Serbia's budget and public finances, they are not. Evidence that he's a pathological man, wants to prove some surplus, and we know he's gone nowhere, shows us a surplus, and no expenses paid since February last year. Anyone can be successful if they don't pay ten pensions. What do we do next? The people should live in the meantime. Someone calculated that six pension pensions for pensioners in the meantime were denied various locks of coordination, delays, absence of compensation for interest, etc. I can tell you there's no way to do that anymore. There's no way to do that when it comes to this population. Remember, from our budget at least 10 years will have to be paid into this pension-inhabitation fund, and even to make the best transformation. What you are proposing in a set of pension regulations is not a reform, because there is no analytical program to see what pension is, what is a contribution, what is it when a employer pays a contribution, what is it when a contribution is paid on the basis of what is an employee's earnings. What's the mandatory part that would have to go to the Insurance Fund? What's voluntary retirement insurance? What are the rights, obligations, etc? We don't have that system, we don't have the paper, we don't have the program, we don't have the analysis, we don't have the projection. What's going to happen on the demographic plan? What's going to happen on a business plan? When will the interest fall? When are the jobs going to open? Let me remind you, we're in the year when we import labour, so it turns out to the media, a few years ago it was announced. There's nothing from imports, we're now the state where people get kicked out of work. The white Schengen visa, you remember - I can't watch the youth waiting in front of the embassy, we'll do anything to get into that European Union, that the sooner our children leave, and now they're waiting even more. The dots don't count, forget the one who promised. With pension-involved insurance, if you've interpreted what the SRS is saying as a rematch, something empty, etc. Or persistently political, then you're very wrong. We're all potential pensioners here. You make the law for yourself, you don't pass this law for your parents. This law will concern you, too. Think of what it will be like for you as pensioners when you see this provision, and you say, "Who is the fool who wrote it for 65 years, and your son should remind you?" Dad, you raised your hand for it. Take care. Here we warned Gordana Matkovic, I think five days of the debate over this Law on PIO, why it's no good, why it can't be passed, why it can't be suffered, why it can't be all in the same basket. The woman didn't want to hear it, she wanted to vote as soon as possible. We warned Ljiljana Cholic. We warned Mladjan Dinkic, and he trampled, like in a glass shop. Think about it, there's big system stuff where there's no political breakage at this level. If someone wants to get committed to that population for what I don't know, and I know there were such statements in 2001, then I have to say that the one who said that, and the ones who repeated it, made a big mistake, because he talked more about himself than the others. Let's make one quality pension-inhabitation system, on almost similar principles of health insurance systems and unemployment insurance systems, where the contribution that is charged to go to and part of general solidarity, which is driven by the state's norm, and in the part that I'm going to master and have the right to allocate on another level the extra funds for social security under the property rights system over those funds. If you are contentious, it is no harm, take the Serbian Radical Party programme, it was all written, as early as 1994. The first analysis was made in 1991. They've been developed to the point of all three pillars. It's no shame. Everyone took that system later. Three years ago, the Americans set out on that mixed system because they saw their private funds being shot. You remember what happened to that big agency that was a voluntary fund, which held the funds of its employees -- the company went bankrupt, and what happened to the members of the voluntary fund, the employees, with their funds. In America, there was a big affair, America's richest pension funds are pension funds. We're going to have a very rich pension fund, but it's only going to have that advantage that in 15 years, it's not going to pay anybody anything, because nobody's going to get that right, because the fund's starting from the beginning. A large amount of funds will be reported. There will also be mob money, from Cyprus, from exotic islands, in different names. Therefore, in silence, this law should pass under regular number 2. That's why Dinkic won't come, not this one, and not to talk about Kostunica, he can't even think about this. The theme is serious. You will see these transitional and final provisions, as they will be in practice. We're warning you in advance what might happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19944	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 70th Amendment were submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19945	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, speaking on amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, I have several times clearly highlighted the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia. I repeat, he's public, it's not a secret. So there's no speculation, no trade, and for those of you who care about the SPS, I don't care. We were also clear in the principle debate. Two of our key objections to amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act relate to: first, conditions for obtaining pension rights; second, the preservation of the value of acquired rights. I was talking about the preservation of the value of acquired rights earlier, explaining the amendment that we're asking for when pensions are brought into line, a safeguard mechanism by which the state guarantees pensioners that their average pensions will not fall below 60% of the profit average. Of course, it would be adjusted for a percentage of the individual (if there were no dilemma, because there is a confusion) for each pensioner what is the difference between the average of earnings and the average of pensions. One of our key conditions is that we are also asking for the rise of the age limit to be moved, i.e. to delay application by two years. Article 70, in direct connection with Article 4 of the proposed law, which states that Article 19 (1) to (3) changes and says: under one, that he retires when he is 65 years old for men and 60 years for women and at least 15 years for women; when he is 40 (a man), or 35 (a woman) and at least 53 years of life. The truth works, to be clear, this 35-year-old condition for women and 40 for men was and remains, and that's the basic condition. So it's only increased for men from 63 to 65 and for women from 58 to 60. Another condition has been introduced, when 45 years of insurance are completed, regardless of the years of life. Article 70 provides that these provisions of Article 4 of the Law, which regulate the right to retirement, are to be applied or increased by a period of four years. So, raising the age limit by two years is projected by this member to increase by four years, so that next year it would increase by half a year, it would be 58.5, and next year -- 2008. - a year and a half and a year would be the full application of this Article of the Fourth Law. We have proposed to postpone the application of this provision until 2008. So, in 2006 and 2007, the conditions so far apply, and since 2008, this law has been applied half a year since then, which means until 2011. That is the essence of our amendment. Why did we do that? First, in order not to have any disputes or any misunderstandings, each of us aims to work, to have working conditions, to have living conditions, to be able to work as long as possible. It's one human goal that everyone needs to pursue, and it's not controversial. There is another issue here: the conditions in which Serbia is located at a time when the age limit is changed. These conditions, where 65 and 60 years of life are retired, can be applied in developed countries, with a stable economy, with great employment, with a small number of unemployed. It's not controversial, but in this country where there are millions of unemployed, who can't get a job, in this country where one of the most endangered categories is that of the population that is in the other half of the working century, which even the largest number of layoffs has for that category of the population that is in the second half of the working century, which is not that he can't get a job anymore, but are in a situation where they have to chase years of life, when he's going to retire... Again, I don't know which time: 2002, when the age limit was raised suddenly in three years, the entire generations of people couldn't retire, because they lost the border in three years. The same generation, which reaches an existing 58-year limit for women and 63 for men, will have to chase again for two years without a job. It's not natural for me to deem and worry about what others think and what others fight for; I'm talking about what I suggest and what I fight for. So for these reasons, when we have a large number of unemployed in the second half of our lives, when we have a large number of otherwise unemployed, and we have to create some employment space, it's not appropriate to raise the age limit in these conditions from 58 to 60 and from 63 to 65 years. There is obviously no need now, but there is no interference again – I am convinced that the promoter did not seek other solutions, and he could find them. I mentioned, it was here in the game once -- to make a degree, so you could retire at 65 and 15 years of internship, but you can also get at 60 and 25 years of work. There are other options. I mentioned the example of Germany, where you can retire at age 60, I'm talking about men, but it's 18 percent less retirement. So there's a much greater number of options and there's a possibility and a right to a man who retires to choose whether or not he will accept these options. With regard to Article 71... I'm a rational man, and I don't think we'll do anything more if we talk anymore. This is an explanation for Article 71, since I have an amendment to that article. He predicted that only certain categories of workers could go under the old law in the next two years. Since we are proposing for all employees to move this member of the law until 2008, and since 2008 to be gradually applied, we believe that the member is too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19946	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the basic text of the law, the legislator in this article suggests raising the age line, or strengthening the conditions for obtaining the age pension from 63 to 65, when it comes to men and 58 to 60, when it comes to women. In these transitional provisions, the phasing-up of these stricter conditions is proposed, so that all these measures go from 2006, the age limit is extended by six months each year until 2008. Our amendment, as counterpart Petronijevic said earlier, is heading towards a delay in this step, not from 2006 but from 2008 to 2011, so that this 65-year-old condition for men and 60-year-old women would only be around 2011. We think our amendment is correct. When someone says these amendments of ours aren't going to do much, I don't think they're right. It's just that there's a lot going on with these amendments of ours. It is a very important amendment that speaks of the way and dynamics of harmonising pensions, because simply, as I said before, the Swiss formula would, in two years, lead to the average pensions being below 60 percent of the average salary. On the other hand, it is quite clear to us that the most important thing for the stability of the fund is the growth of the original funds and the growth of contributions, but it is very difficult to count on the growth of contributions in the situation where we have a constant reduction in the number of employees. It is not about new employment now, because it is clear that new employment in Serbia is almost gone. Thinks of the number of employees compared to last year. I think it's down by even one or two percent. So, without this new employment, there is no rise in original funds. On the other hand, one possible solution is to increase the contribution rate. If we want to have stable funds, if we want the pension fund to be stable, why don't we even grow the contributions, why don't we go higher? Simply, in many countries, more developed than we are, where it is constantly said that you need to spread your profits, we have a situation, for example in Czechoslovakia, that the rate of contribution is 27 percent. In our time, the rate of contribution was 30, and 28, and 26 percent, and now we've reached 22 percent. In these conditions, we come to the conclusion that everything depends on the budget. There's a lot of funding in the budget, somewhere around 86 billion this year goes to pensioners. If we increase the rate of contribution, it is certain that these resources would be lower. On the other hand, we know that when it comes to the pension fund, a good part of the funding seems to me somewhere around 30 billion, the Health Insurance Fund is being paid. Why would the pensioners go now with the pension fund paying the health fund? Because the health fund has very small budget donations. It's all a matter of state. But it's quite clear that it's this government's policy. We in the SPS can't bear responsibility as if we're a majority partner. We are here as a corrective factor and to mitigate all possible negative consequences. We know well what our policy was about both privatisation and law-making. When we talk specifically about this amendment, about raising the conditions for retirement, you know that in our time it was a 60-year-old pension for men, 55-year-olds for women. In our time we also had early retirements -- 55 years for men, we had early pensions for women, and that was 50 years, of course with a certain reduction. But all those solutions were good solutions. We had a case that during this debate some DOS or DS MPs say – my people, our workers are in a difficult position and those who do, do difficult and complex jobs, are eager to retire. We agree with that, but it was in 2002 that they increased the age limit from 60 to 63, when it came to men and from 55 to 58, when it comes to women. That's quite clear. When we talk about the age limit, all of this will be moved by 2011, i.e. from 2008 to 2011, and this is a good solution. What's going to happen in 2008? We know that in 2006 or 2007, the elections are at the latest, the responsibility will be borne by a new government, perhaps a new assembly majority, and we know that both the new government and the new assembly majority can at any time change all possible laws, so it is illusory to talk about certain guarantees and say – let's guarantee it for 2020 or 2030. The guarantees are quite enough, and if we say so – we guarantee this only by the end of 2007, because in 2008 with the new government, with the new parliamentary majority, everything can change. I think this amendment is good and the MPs will support this proposal to move the age line from 2008 to 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19948	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Vesna Obradovic and Vladimir Homan together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new article 70a be added after article 70a. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 71 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Vojislav Milajić and the MPs of the people, Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic, submitted. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all one clarification: the amendment to article 71 was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. Whether other MPs have submitted an amendment in a similar or same text, it is absolutely irrelevant and should not be merged, when the president says: the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic, and only then did the amendment stand together, or vice versa. Otherwise, I vigorously protest the fundamental disrespect of the National Assembly as a legislative home by this independent minister, because here, the second day is how we debated; the first time we discussed in principle and now that we are discussing amendments the minister comes, tells his story, picks up and goes. This law, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, brings those who are half-starved, above all I mean pensioners below average, pensioners who receive four, five or six thousand pensions, to the situation that they literally starve. I think the minister was obliged to sit here and answer parliamentary questions. National MP Vojislav Milajic is asking for article 71 to be deleted. I will read the provisions of this article: "Extremely from the provisions of the article. 4th and 70th of this law, the person whose work has ceased, as well as the person whose employment has ceased due to bankruptcy, liquidation, i.e. in all cases of termination of the employer's work, no later than 31 December 2007, the right to retirement is obtained when he is 63 (a man) or 58 (a woman) years of life and at least 20 years of retirement, no later than 31 December 2007. "At other times, some social benefits have been allowed for people to survive when their work relationship stops, but not by their guilt. Today, when you lose your job, you have severance or no severance, you are socially secured for a year or a year and a half and then you are literally on the street and you are literally hungry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this amendment should be adopted and Article 71 of this bill should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19950	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19951	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, here are also in Article 70 and Article 71, on which amendments have been made to our MPs, there is a legal gap that I have tried to explain and an amendment to Article 4 of the Law. Before I explain what this is about, I must remind the MPs, because I see that they do not read the text of the bill, and the motioner himself has failed to pay attention to the concepts that already exist in the law, which are explained, chapter 7, the pension internship, article 44, says - pension internship on the basis of which they are acquired and the rights of pension disability insurance are covered by the time that counts in the insurance internship and the special internship under the provisions of this law. The accent is a special internship according to the provisions of this law. Under point 2), it is said – a time which, as an insurance internship and a special internship, is included in the retirement period according to the rules which were in force until the entry into force of this law. In the provision of Article 60, a special internship is said to – to the insurance officer – to the woman who gave birth to a third child on this basis – a special two-year period is included. See the provision of Article 4 or amended Article 19 of the existing Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. There is no longer a concept of a pension internship that implies, or contains, a special internship. There is a problem with the fact that women who have a third child have this special insurance period being unable to use it, because there is no concept of retirement internship in the provision of Articles 4 and 19 of the existing law, when a consolidated text is done. If you adopt such provisions in Articles 70 and 71, if you adopt them in the original text or in the amended text, as proposed by the MPs in the amendment, after 2009, this special internship will have no significance, although it is recognised, in accordance with the provisions of the laws that follow. Please, it's a legal void to be intervened on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19952	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19953	Mr. Todorovic tried to explain, but what's worth it, the minister doesn't have. Gentlemen, if you follow this transmission via television, you will realize that you are in Article 4. The bill of law when you changed the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement forgot your retirement, you put in an insurance internship, so a special internship fell off and the possibility of women being recognised for a third child for two years. It's just an elemental ignorance. The question is why, then, in the provision of Article 60, the right to a special internship for a woman who gave birth to a third child is recognised, but let it go to the souls of these. This amendment to Article 71. The bill of law... You see, the government came to terms like this - one who stops working until 31.12.2007, because in that period, his company is shut down because of bankruptcy or liquidation, he can retire under more favourable conditions, and these are those that are in force in today's law, 63 years of life, 58 years for women and at least 20 years of retirement. So, a retirement internship, within it and a special internship, is recognised to a woman if her company goes bankrupt by 31.12.2007. Here is another evidence that the promoter totally lost his orientation when changing Article 4 or Article 19, Article 25, and those who rely on a retirement internship, age and retirement internship. How is that possible? Is that justifiable reason for a more favourable condition than a general person to exercise his right to retire because his company went into liquidation or bankruptcy? This is an invitation for employers: so go to voluntary liquidation, you'll finish the job, and those who are 63 and 58 years old and 20 years of retirement, that means only those women are recognised for two years of special internship, and others are not. Absolutely inapplicable law when adopted. You get angry when I call these teachers, experts, this isn't something Karic's university could learn, not even at Karic's, remember, with that academic you couldn't learn what's in our law. If you were going to throw out your retirement and put it all as an insurance internship, then why didn't you change the 60th and say, "The woman who gave birth to a third child has no right to a two-year-old internship, which is a state of honor." Write it out loud and clear. And if you had something against women, here you are, the next members. You're 45-year-old limbs, these Democrats to 48, and now you're going to 50 years, so you're raising the age limit. In widowers too, in the parents supported by the insurance company, you also raise the age limit. Then come on, write down how long it takes to balance the budget. That's much more humane. Say it - it takes 300,000 pensioners to kill themselves, then there's room in the budget; write it clearly, it's better for people to be clear than for them to suffer, because it's simple and time-consuming, as the year goes, you're reducing the right, don't do it. You socialists, because of this nonsense called a retirement internship and a definition, should not vote for this bill in principle, because they have thrown out a special internship, not in the provisions of the law, but in fact in Article 19. Now, Article 19 of attitude 1 in their direction has an insurance internship, no retirement internship. So, these women who gave birth to a third child, they're not recognised when they're supposed to retire. Think about it, you socialists, about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19954	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister finally showed up after his afternoon vacation here, so he can listen to the amendments. This is about the amendment submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic and reads to delete Article 72. It's just a sequel to what we've been trying to explain all afternoon, but we've been explaining in empty chairs. I'd like to mention just a few things that you're doing here to our citizens, the pensioners. Since the arrival of DOS and the change of directors, which is still in PIO, 400 people have been employed more per party line. It's a data that's very easy to check, so if you compare systematicization from before and now. There were also talk of various loans, housing. Also, they pointed out to me that in the past ten days, about 300 people from the PIO fund have been in Canja for a few weeks. Why am I saying that? We're all wondering how much it costs, making money on all kinds of things, hiring party personnel, and taking off their pensioners. Why don't you go first, so we can discuss it further. Also one piece of information: one of the assistant ministers and vice president of the board of directors of PIO; I had to say it. What have you done with this law? So you're sharpening the harsh conditions that exist anyway. Instead of 62, you're retired at 65 years, three years from now, you're extending your internship. And now the situation in the country is this: the data that 36,000 pensioners die a year, these are, but unfortunately, what the state is now and how this government is doing, is increasing mortality, because there's a growing crisis, so it's less likely to buy drugs, there's no money for food, and there's no more dignity. Practically, in three years, there will be over 100,000 pensioners less. Is that your solution? Is that what you wanted to do, and are you waiting for it? I think you should be ashamed of the way you think. Since pensioners are the most vulnerable part of our population, for years now, they've been destroying, or demeaning, I've been wondering, by some logical thought, what else do you want from them; you and your coalition partners are starting, as we've discovered so far, only money and it's mostly motive. So the prize question would be – what do our pensioners have, and you need it? One logical answer that can be found are apartments. Since you are the government of continuity with the former DOS, remember former Minister Kori Udovicki who announced two or three years ago that pensioners will have to sell apartments, because what they want with such large apartments, so they can pay for electricity. That's when it came to what's coming for both us and our pensioners. Now it seems that you've come to the conclusion of that goal, to make pensioners literally have nothing to eat, to sell apartments, and you and your tycoons buy it at a bargain price. Approximatelyly, it can also be passed on to the public debt situation that you are trying to buy at very favourable prices. You are also identified by pensioners with some very hateful people in the past, because as some others hated other people and nations, you do not like poverty and pensioners. They're disturbing you on your way to Europe, they're ruining your picture when you turn on the TV "Dnevnik", and you, Mr. Minister, probably when you turn on "Dnevnik" there all flowers, it's nice in the country, people live well, but the picture is dreary in reality and it shows how much you've brought us and what you've actually done to us and I wonder how long we can keep quiet. I appeal to the MPs, someone here said, I think Mr. Vukic, that both your parents and our parents are pensioners, but let's pay attention to them. I suppose you're helping your parents with your salaries, so it still makes sense, they can survive, but they have friends, neighbors, they have cheeks, if one of the MPs doesn't. I'd ask you not to embarrass your parents if you have a sole instead of a cheek. I also ask you to vote by your conscience, in the truth, not by party obedience, even though you do it all the time in the past. I urge you to vote against this law in general, so you don't embarrass yourself, so that in five years you don't bang on your head why you did it, and that you don't stay in black letters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19956	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 72nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's session of the Assembly, we have done everything possible to make it very clear what our conditions are to support this law. They repeat this once again: first, the conditions for obtaining pension rights, which we ask for to be postponed until 2008 and from 2008 to 2012, to carry out the change during that period. We have explained and explained again: the conditions in which Serbia is now located, the number of unemployed, the big problem of people in the second half of the working century, are not the conditions in which the provision can be applied. The direct consequence of this amendment, which is an amendment to Article 70 of this Law, is also amendments to the article. 72, 73, 74. It also refers to the movement of the application of this provision: a member of the 72nd Family Pensions, a member of the limbs, a member of the 73rd in widows and a member of the 74th in parents. So it's about family pensions. The same Corps, we're asking to move the application of raising the retirement age from 58 to 60, or from 60 to 65, and also to move by two years of application to family pensions, from 48 to 50, from 53 to 55, etc. So that's our essential remark, that's our essential requirement when it comes to obtaining conditions for retirement. Another requirement we tried to explain today is to preserve the value of the pension right acquired, that is to protect it, that it cannot fall below 60% of the average pension compared to the average earnings. We discussed what it means and why we do it. We're doing it to protect our existing pensioners until the conditions are met that the entire system will come to life with all three pillars of insurance. When it is, it will obviously be more favourable conditions for it to be applied. Until then, there must be this protection mechanism for the current generation of pensioners. It's two of our key objections, our two demands, our amendments we're asking for to be adopted, in which case we would support the law. So, members 72, 73 and 74, who are talking about family pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19958	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19959	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that certain parliamentary groups are struggling not to raise an age line, or that the conditions for retirement and family pension are not getting worse, but I have been startled by people from the profession, by the professional public, or by MPs who know this issue well. They did not respond when it comes to amended Article 117 of the existing law, where a new position is added after Article 1, where it is said: "The beneficiary of the family pension that acquires the property of the insurance company is suspended from the payment of the family pension. "In the principle debate, I wondered why discrimination if every pensioner, except for pensioners who got a pension based on loss of ability, meant absolute inability to work, which is natural, can't work, has the right to work, why a family pension user can't work. I think it was in earlier provisions and that was a problem, so the Constitutional Court challenged it as an unconstitutional provision, and now a provision is being introduced that is unconstitutional to me. If a family pension user can't live off that little pension and is forced to do something, earn, feed the family, why is that right denied? I don't see any reason for that, because there's no excuse. This is particularly about discrimination. That's why it was better to intervene in this part so that these rights don't get worse. I think it's a more favourable solution in the current law, and the new proposal is highly unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19960	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, in fact, the essence of political life in Serbia. We now hear very clearly from a parliamentary group without which this law cannot be voted that if several attached amendments are not accepted they will not vote for the law and the law will fall. The government doesn't have an opinion. The government hopes to be able to reverse the position of the SPS parliamentary group, which is here. I remind you, no matter what we're in the O.R., the words that the MP said before me are words spoken in public. That should also be known by the minister and the entire government, who did not have time to sit down and think about what amendments he accepts, which amendments do not accept. It is one of the most serious problems the government currently has ahead of it; with NIS restructuring and perhaps several other important problems, this is one of the most important. You act like the law on aquariums, about goldfish. This is clearly spoken from this pay phone - if you do not accept this amendment, there will be no law. What are we still discussing? Is the amendment accepted or not? Do you think you can convert such a publicly spoken word? It would be a shame if the law passed without the amendment accepted. Then there really are people in the Assembly with whom there is no need to exchange curtous words, in terms of "good afternoon" and "goodbye." Minister, where is the responsibility if we spend this much time in vain and eventually the law falls? Will it go into those old stories of yours – my dear pensioners, you have a bad law, but your grandchildren will then benefit from this law. So I ask you to bring this bill seriously to an end. After all, if you adopt him now, we'll have to apply him, at least in a form in which it's impossible to change. We're gonna have to change something. Obviously, from your point of view, Mr. Secretary... If I were a minister, even if I didn't have a party behind me, I wouldn't stand it if the MP told me the whole parliamentary group wouldn't vote for the law unless you accepted the amendment. You keep your mouth shut. Do you accept this amendment or not? Is there any point in us discussing this or not, and what is it waiting for? What kind of persuasion can be when this is spoken publicly, frankly, this wasn't a statement to the press. Obviously, there's not too much room for maneuvers anymore. That's not what Hansel Dacic said. This is what one of the MPs said. I understand that Ivica Dacic has other concerns when he says it can be changed. I ask the question whether you really consider us insecure people, whether you consider the Serbian public to be insecure. The whole country is thinking about pensions, hundreds of thousands of people are turning over their workbooks. Who knows how many pensioners think about how next month's payoffs will go, and you don't have a view of whether the law will be passed or not. You have no position at all whether it's important for you to have the law passed or not. Since nothing is asking you to go out for a pay phone and say – Mr. MP, let me explain to you, your MP group, you were wrong, you didn't get a good look at it, or you could say - Mr. MP, why are you blackmailing us, or saying - we're interrupting work on this law, it's obvious that the law can't pass. I am telling you, on the day when all the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will be voted in the hall, they will vote against. If the Democratic Party also meets the agreement that all its MPs be in the hall and vote against it remains to trust in God that someone can reverse the SPS's position as speaker in the year ahead of the elections. So please, Minister, don't look at me, I don't deserve your underestimating view, at least because of what I'm dealing with and I have some results behind me, and so I ask you to make a statement about the fate of this law, whether it's important to you or not, and what you're willing to do to pass the law, whether the debate in the Assembly is important to you or not, whether you came here just to pass the time; if you want time to sit at home and sing better, but to come to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19962	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19963	Since one MP has shown great concern for the fate of the law, apparently the government, I appreciate that concern absolutely and I will give some information that I think is important. First I would like to inform the MPs, I do not know if you have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, that the Committee has adopted one of the major amendments concerning this matter, which is that pensions go to coordination twice a year. The amendment that the Committee first adopted I accepted on behalf of the government, so it is now an integral part of the law. It's the first thing that probably interests the MPs. As for what is mentioned here, it has often been mentioned about amendments to the SPS MPs, about the relationship of 60% of the average pension and salary, this morning also adopted an amendment defining those 60%, with a view to three years from the date of adoption of the law, such a provision. We will see, of course, how it will be in the voting day, but it is our belief that we will adopt this law, that its solutions and objectives will achieve the desired effects. We also expect two things to be clear following the adoption of the law. The first thing is that Serbia continues to carry out the reform processes strongly and secondly, which was mentioned here, unfortunately I was absent because of the commitments, and I will mention once again, although I know that in the public part it is unpopular, it is also that I expect that we will expect an arrangement with the IMF, or a programme that has concluded three years ago that government will succeed in ending this year, which will bring great benefits to this country, citizens and pensioners, which we have been talking about here for a long time. It is a very interesting thing about all of this: individual pension law solutions are criticised, it is said that pensioners will be threatened; the only thing that has remained all the time, of course very consciously, is an alternative to such solutions. So, regardless of the reactions and the throw-offs, the bottom line of the whole story is that if you're criticizing something, if you have objections, then you have to have a proposal for a solution, otherwise it's completely infertile, as it usually is in Serbia. I've talked about it several times, what we're doing right now -- we're seeing some basic facts and in accordance with the behaviour of one responsible government, and in line with the behaviour of responsible authorities in Europe, unlike how the government has been acting here for a long time, I've repeatedly talked about how the pension fund of the 1980s got into a crisis. It's 2005. Is it necessary to wait another 30 years to react? What's done now is done at twelve and five, not five to twelve. I also said that this government could pay out pensions for its term of office as they pay off, but that would be the same behavior as when it puts its head in the sand, to transfer responsibility to a future government, so let it rub its nose with the reality of Serbia. It's something, regardless of the facial expressions, which is out of the question when it comes to this government and when it comes to the work that I'm doing. I know it's not popular, when it's much more popular to shed tears and worry, but I think things are much more serious than that. This isn't about making some kind of political point, this is about doing something for this country and society. Reforming pension law, and here is the mention of restructuring of NIS, public enterprises, Serbian social enterprises which, by the way, I assume you know if you live in reality, is often mentioned here if you live in reality... I think it's those who want to implement the necessary reforms that live in that reality, and the reality of Serbia comes down to the next, besides, because there's often interest in seeing reality here. In front of this government and this ministry, a number of social enterprises in Serbia seeking help for social programmes are in line to seek the help to survive, to be saved, to succeed in privatising successfully. The alternative is that we don't do anything and let everything die. So there's no way this government is gonna let everything die, as popular and unpopular as it is, but vice versa, to keep everything alive that can be alive. Let me also mention that it is said that people in the transition and restructuring process are losing jobs. For God's sake, they're losing in the restructuring process, someone's revealing America. The real situation is next, talk to the company people -- there are so many and so many of us, if you offer us a social programme there's a chance, no one guarantees, that this company will survive with that and that number of people, that someone who wants to buy a company, invest and start living. It's the reality of Serbia. Go to any company and you'll hear the same story. Like the reality of Serbia, the reality of Serbia is necessary to reform the pension system. Why is she running? I said here at the beginning, but I guess we don't hear from each other because there are other needs. So, we have a situation where one of them pays contributions, one of them gets a pension. It is now a situation in Serbia. We have a situation that Serbia belongs to the ten oldest societies in the world. We have a demographic situation that 15% of our population is up to 30 years old. I'd like to see, that's what I said at the beginning, who manages to solve it, get the Nobel Prize right away. How can pensions be paid without reforming the system? Who can get that? (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: you two are looking for the Nobel Prize. I'm not asking, but I'm proposing to one of you who finds a solution. So we've found a solution. I know this doesn't feel right, but we've found a solution. The solution is that we will implement these amendments to the law and, regardless of concern, adopt these amendments to the law in this assembly, which will also be passed by a law on voluntary pension funds. It'll be the third pillar of the system. We will implement the necessary reform of the pension system and achieve that in the perspective of people in Serbia do not worry about getting a pension. The alternative is to finish, as there are some countries around, to put the law next, perhaps more like it by many – we will collect contributions, pensioners have the right to receive pensions, etc., and then stand stuck, according to how much funds are collected. Then you don't know for a month how much pension there will be, depending on one uncertain circumstance. So, what we're doing is going to achieve a few goals: fund stability, regular pension payments, that's at pension fund level; another big goal, which I was talking about, and pensioners are aware of, of course, that in this way, we're going to solve a key problem with this policy, which is the problem of unemployment in Serbia, that by redistributing the social product in favour of investing here, we're going to increase employment. Every pensioner knows that neither the mid-term nor long-term without an increase in employment has any of this fund. Only if we increase the amount of contributions we collect, which is a larger number of employees, can there be long-term stabilisation of the pension fund, the basic state fund. I'd still mention it, because it's characteristic, I've heard the story about this retirement internship, the members of the Fourth Law, and so on. Of course, criticism is criticism, that's quite all right. But what I'd like to point out is: it's especially about the right for a third child and a retirement internship for that. I would mention this: the current legal solution is to have the right to retire at 20 years of insurance, 18 years of age, and for example. Retirement - two years. We say 15 years is enough insurance. So we're reducing that line down there. That's what I'm saying, when something's being commented, it's all about commenting. In the end, regardless of the concerns that have been expressed, the law will be passed with solutions that are acceptable, which are good for both this country and the pensioners and for the goals we achieve. On that point, I urge you to wait until Thursday or Friday, depending on when the vote will be. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19964	Replica, the word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19965	I watched the minister carefully as he spoke. I've seen several shows he's been taking part in lately explaining reform proposals. Minister, if I were still the technical director of the cemetery in Kragujevac, you'd be my best ceremonial funeral master. I think you'd be able to laugh at the funeral. One more thing to tell you, the minister who says the MPs shed tears, a minister who doesn't have so much morals when his party leaves the government to go out with the party, can be such a ceremonial master. The Minister who tells the pensioners - accept these solutions, over 15 years, will be fine, who doesn't think there's a pensioner who's received an average of more than five years of retirement, really needs to strangle us here in front of this assembly. With all this, such confidence that Thursday you will pass the law. The man comes out before you and says we won't vote unless you accept the amendments. You didn't accept the amendments, and then you say, we're going to vote that law in a form that's acceptable. At least we've been doing this job longer than you, Minister. Don't throw us away, Minister, but tell us how you think we're gonna pass that law. If you convince us that the solutions are good for pensioners, better than the existing ones, we will vote for that law. If you convince us that the pension law will increase your employment twice, I will vote in favour of that law. But I haven't heard of a transition society that pension laws have encouraged employment. I haven't heard of a firm in Serbia, with the exception of two or three, which deals mostly with alcohol and some djjams, which came to better production by privatising, more employment. It was mostly privatization to get people a business space, a brand, a product they needed, and most of all to fire all workers. Mostly, I haven't heard of a social programme that helped Serbia. When someone falls on the social program, there's no help. If you think, for example, of a solution from the Car Factory in Kragujevac, that employment, education, as you called the WHO, expired for two years, the workers deceived the government before you, but you have very similar supervision in this regard. They're on the street now. It's that social program. If you mean 100, 200, 500 euros for a year's internship, is that a social programme? Buy for that TV in the first store, used car, you get to import a used car with a large number of years, after three months these people are back on the street, waiting for our government to complain they're out of work. One more thing to explain to me, is it possible that you in the Serbian government are so masochists that you are consciously working on laws that undermine your popularity? Are you going to convince us that you're sacrificing yourself for this country and for the next governments that you won't be in, I promise you now, that they wouldn't have a pension problem? What a good man you are, Mr. Minister, how you are one of God's kind, like a sheep of God. If this wasn't the condition of the IMF for the other thing, because your policy is scale, you're looking at your reputation being ruined in Serbia, and you're looking at what might bring that sauce back. It's not that arrangement with the IMF, in fact, conditioned by this law, so you moved and you said, we're going to suffer two or three months of criticism over this bill, we're going to present it to reform, and then we're going to have this conversation with the IMF that's going to bring us benefits, and then we're going to privatise NIS, the money will come, and the people will forget our pension law. There's no government that makes the law that's bad for her. There's no government in the world unless there's something behind it. Because what would you, Minister, miss your chance to enter the O.R. whenever you want? Why? To make it easier for another government after that? No, Minister. What put you in the position of the minister of law who is very dangerous to every political party? Because you represent no political party. Does Serbia remember who before you was Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Policy? He used to hang around this phone booth, give us political speeches, what he didn't do to us. Now he's gone public. He has a capital that he acquired as a minister, something in Rakovica, something in Zemun, a big house, he's no longer a minister, and the government got away with it. None of the Democratic Party has held responsibility for what the government has done worst to the workers. That's what Vojislav Kostunica does. He pushed Minister Lalovic to endanger the pensioners. Look, I'm not sure, as far as I know Kostunica, that in two months he won't say it's all your fault, that he didn't know, about how your conversations with the IMF ran. So please, you have explained to us the law, who has accepted you - accepted, who is not - no, you have written one amendment from this patriotic company that cuts money in Serbia - you have accepted that amendment. All I care about is what happens to the SPS amendments. If it could have been paid, they wouldn't have gone public with the story of not voting for the law. If it happens Thursday that we don't pass the law, Minister, I expect the first moral act of your life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19966	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, MP Zoran Krasic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19967	I will make a brief review of only that part of what Mr Lalovic, minister and MP, was saying, to point out to the public. You see, two MPs came out here to say that there's one big problem in the law, as far as the "retirement internship" is concerned. Now, you see, instead of the minister coming out here for a pay phone, so he can make a connection between Article 19, Articles 60 and that other member there, etc., there's a member who says "retirementary internship", he includes an insurance internship, a special internship, and a special member says -- a special internship means two years for a third child, a woman who has given birth to a third child for another two years. A special internship and an insurance internship makes the concept of a retirement internship. Now, that concept of retirement does not exist in Article 19. It's out. Now the minister instead of admitting the mistake and saying, come on, we'll make an amendment, we'll sort something out here, because it's basically not a two-year internship, he says -- we've now given better conditions, and he forgot to talk about the original right of a woman for a third-born child. You see how he's master of manipulation. He says it's more favourable now. He's not saying it's 65 years of life and 15 years of internship now, but he says it was 20, and we took it off to 15. Master manipulation. I'm not surprised you're not being treated at the International Labour Organization, that you cheated on them, that you tricked us all about the Labour Act. And this law will have to be falsified, remember you in power. Last time he succumbed to that Markovic. He's taken over everything. Now who's going to take that obligation to forge? I don't believe anything Lalovic said. Everything he says, it's a twist, a twist, etc. At 63 they raise to 65 and they say -- that's more favourable, and there's a story about social programs going on right now, about employment. Who's stopping you from hiring people? Who's stopping you from hiring people? Who's holding you back from privatizing, but normal privatisation? Tadic won't give it to you. Okay, that's you socialists go with the banners, so demonstrate. You see, this power of manipulation, Nikola Todorovic pointed to a failure, where the internship was lost. There is a provision on special training for women, but in fact they are not recognised under conditions for obtaining pension rights. No, we expected the minister to say very honestly -- oh, a mistake, instead of an insurance internship, we should have written a "retired internship". No, he keeps going his own way. It has to be the opposite of what radicals suggest, because it's not good at all. I can understand that something can't be accepted ideologically, but you won't even make a technical mistake, not even a technical mistake. So you don't want to correct a notional mistake. You push hard and persistent. Now, that's the problem. Mr. Lalovic, you've been celebrated as Secretary of the Extraprofit Commission. You've had quite a celebration! You've had quite a celebration in the union. You've had quite a celebration in one party, the other party, the third, the fourth, the fifth party. You've had quite a celebration as young Dinkic's right hand, but I must tell you one thing. In the army, finances would be in absolute order if, by any chance, your friend Aleksandar Radovic was also in financial control, but since Aleksandar Radovic, the one who escaped at the time of the 2002 elections, remember, because he couldn't come to control Davinic and what was there, is an affair immediately. You're in that triumvirate. You don't belong to any political party. If you belonged to a political party, you would share the fate of any political party with which you are in any relationship. You see how: this party with three MPs entered the account of the G17 plus. After a month, you went to a special assembly club. What happened happened. These two are gone, and this one's taking care of the state, big worries. Every week we listen to the same story -- he and his spokesman from the Ministry sit down and talk. In this ministry, everyone from Social Democracy, including Orlic's wife, etc., was employed, etc. I don't know about the snorkels, but I do know that every normal one would drive out that Ljiljana, which is a flyer here when she's voting, who collects all the services, and allegedly writes books, gives some interpretations, dispersions, etc. You tried to register the employers' association through that hunter from Zemun. Finally, that association fell. This union thing you've been stalling, and these planted conversations with Smiljanic, well, it's all recognized. Well, you know everything in this country, people. You know it all! You're withdrawing this bill. Don't deliberately take it out on your pensioners. We'll talk more about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19968	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go. It's a replica to the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19969	I'm not angry that you didn't respect my opinion on this matter. I understand that someone else is writing the texts of the law, and the government is signing, as a proposer. Then you don't get to read every detail. It's complex matter, complex matter, a lot of detail, so it took careful reading of the whole law, after this intervention of certain provisions, to bring it all together. But if you wanted to answer as you replied to me, there's something called home records. There's a regulation called the Labour Records Act, so it's all defined by what it's supposed to be and what it's based on, it's written and kept a certain record. Here, Article 129, paragraph 2, point 14, is said to be kept records. "The parent records include the following insurance data," and lists everything and says in point 14 "about the retirement internship - by species. "Why keep track of something that doesn't stand or use later? I would understand if you had such a philosophy, if you had decided to delete article 60, or if you had an intervention in article 44, which speaks, i.e. the whole chapter, about the retirement internship. You know why, Minister? Due to point 2), which says – the time that is like the insurance internship and the special period calculated in the retirement period, according to the regulations that were in force until the date of entry into force of this law. You know what he's talking about? It's about soldiers, combatants who died in the war, or were disabled, losing their ability to work, etc., and their internship counts for double duration. If you delete it now as a special condition, you will have a lot of problems with young people who, defending this country, have suffered war injuries and have lost their ability to work, or have reduced their ability to work. I see here, what's the custom, that text writers make sure that when they list certain terms, they define them nicely. The existing law has thrown out some provisions, or some concepts, so it has made a mess of things. You continued with that logic, and you could change something at least in the part that refers to disabled workers, i.e. the concept of disability, reduced working skills, etc. If you dropped this point 2) of article 44, we'll have a lot of problems. So we need to remove the legal gaps and get as much as we can to the solution. These provisions do not affect the problem of reforming the system. They're talking about conditions and gaining rights. The extent of the right is something else. I understand that, all the difficulties and problems. For me, there is little in the text of this law of what you say and what is the real reform of the pension insurance system. There is more and more than that part of raising the age line and part of how pensions are calculated, or pension coordination. There is much outside the text of this proposal, and there is a broad concept of reform. In that sense, you may be defending your associates, I don't know who wrote this text, he didn't pay attention, but it's incorrect to say, and we have that in the former point 2) or point 1), that provision was 65 years of life and 15 years of internship, and before and now it's left, only the point has been moved. That didn't solve the problem. So either you erase what's meant to be a special internship, or don't mislead the mothers who have a third child to have an internship, that doesn't mean anything to them, we certainly understood each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19970	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this amendment is indeed of a very technical nature, it is clear, because we propose to delete Article 73, in which extension stages are regulated, according to this bill projection, a year of internship when it can be the heir to a family pension or it can get the right to that pension. I propose, and it is in line with our amendment to Article 8, that, although not so well, there remains a solution to the existing law, where this age line will move two years from now. And this is one of the evidence that we're in one anti-reform law, but it's no wonder, because we've heard from a large number of speakers that it's about a man, I mean a minister, who has no one to account for in public, can lay down to the prime minister, who is once again capable, and sometimes very pragmatic to make a decision. Here, your ex-party was a handsome experiment for him. What fate you will experience for this we do not know, but we do know and suspect that the fate of the citizens of Serbia, pensioners, present and future will be very uncertain. Pensions will certainly be lower, and of course, since pension has become an obvious social category, this special group of those who will enjoy family pensions in a certain way will be further affected. You see, the other generator of this kind of law is behind it all, he's an expert in creating and finding different financial machines, who listens to the IMF's advice and well, there sees some kind of bounceboard, maybe the future. After all, this group is actively joining various European institutions, sausages through the form of different recognitions, representing the country; there you will find many experts from that group, and where citizens, where at least in a political sense, will see it in the next elections. What I was about to say is that the social part of this proposal's weight on these two groups of pensioners, so it's men-- family pensions, they have to wait until they're 55 years old to become pensioners. If you look at it now through two basic categories, those that are agricultural or those that were family employees -- as a rule where one works, social opportunities are very bad, and that's clear, because if it was luck, two would work and something would get done, there would be any legacy. If someone who lived in a marriage, let's say, in a specific case of this amendment, the wife died, and he's waiting to turn 55 to get a family pension, the question is whether there are morals, elements and reasons for so long a delay to wait another two years. Apparently, there were bad living conditions in there, because it was one person who was employed, and the other was the one who needed to receive a share. There are few who are in the position of generals, former high pensions, so the generals and their wives or vice versa, so they can wait a little while and hang on to that pension, wait a few years longer, that was in the previous article. It was a much lower level before, so in 2002 and 2003 it rose and now it's still going to heaven. Imagine the agricultural variant, where farmers are now sending and paying their pensions to their women, just as they are encouraged by the existing legal solution that has been in place so far, that they will be retired before, and since they are both employed, they have a question of when who will end their lives in hard and hard work and if they have a chance to make a pension on the basis of one who paid for family pensions, which we know is extremely poor, extremely low for farmers, there is no dilemma there because it is beyond any comment. It's technically just his name. They are under the circumstances that they pay for treatment, to serve state needs, spent electricity, they have to go to a store for everyone, as well as those who are employed, in-house households, poor, weak, waiting for a certain percentage of the family pension, I don't know how it is possible to wait another two years? Often, at first sight, it's about relatively young people. The agricultural population is characterized by the fact that it works to the grave. The peasant works as long as he can, he works to the end and de facto he will, but under the inn-coherent conditions, the one to whom the pension does not have much to do, and much is expected of him. We don't see any reason why in such a tragic situation, in this subpopulation that will be affected by the law, delayed and moved for another two years. And the point of intervention is, just when we talked about Article 8, we don't change the limits if we can in this way improve the law, which is basically bad. It's an IMF law, created for other opportunities, other circumstances, and not for our country, not for our misfortune. But that's what it is, if you accept it, and we believe you won't. Perhaps we would do something on this second subpopulation of those who have a very bitter and painful life and who await such an unfortunate circumstance, and if the husband waits for a certain number of years to get a pension after a woman's death, it's a big gap and unnecessary gap in walking until that right is achieved. We therefore think that you should carefully consider this amendment, as well as many other amendments. Of course, this is more of a consequence, more of a reference to considering our amendment intervention to Article 8, which essentially regulates it, and if you don't think about it, we're not going to support this law in principle. I think there will be enough of those who will support our decision not to support this law and that the law will be doomed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19972	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19973	Mr. Markovic, don't offer the Minister a word, he has nothing left to say. What he said wasn't good. It was later heard from Mr Nikolic's replica that we expect the first moral act Thursday or Friday, whenever there is a vote, since we will see that certain Members will vote. This is indeed a scandalous amendment to the bill, which was referred to by Professor Milet Poscurica, who, on behalf of the parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to Article 73 and is related to Article 8. It's a bill of law. Not only that engagement that Mr. Nikolic is still the director of the Kragujeva cemetery, your position on this matter applies, but I really think you would be able to tell people nicely with your hand – here you go, the way is open, commit suicide, do something with yourself, because I am the minister, told me the IMF that I should do so, I will do it for the future of generations etc. You in the worst way possible want to tell people, and this is about widows who lost their life mate, friends, wives, someone they've spent certain years with, that they're going to have to wait another two years to get their pension right. Where will your soul, Mr. Minister? Do you even count on those people who did it, or God forbid it happens to someone today, in a situation where a lot of people in that age get sick, and from the worst and most severe diseases, they look at this, watch and think about what's going to happen to them. How can you even think in such a way that you are bound by the figures of an IMF, and that you know the rate (unfortunately, very high) of mortality in Serbia and that you know that people are not able to heal, but most often because of the unremembered, anywhere in the world, bombing and aggression on our country for 78 days (probably you forgot it, Mr. Minister, that it happened in Serbia), and especially Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and it is mostly a woman population (and there is Dr. Momchilov, who also knows much more about it, as other doctors who face it every day), are sick and very early ending their lifetime. You are now telling their spouses that they have to wait another two years, from 53 to 55. You can, Minister, stretch to your will and sleep and yawn and talk unrelated and drink coffee, but you're destroying Serbian citizens. I am now from the assembly pay phone again, who knows which way, I am also telling workers and pensioners that you are one of the key culprits, and along with this Dinkic you are one of the most hated characters in Serbia. Wherever I go, here I was the other day in The Tower, I was in Sivco, last night I was called by some of the citizens on the phone that I met at that party, because Sunday's election in that municipality, and they can't understand that you're talking to such cynicism at all, as you were on one of the televisions with a national frequency telling you about the fact that you have to do it, that they told you. Indeed, when the workers remember how you talked to this Mike, your friend (and he to you - Lale) on that show on state TV before the adoption of the Labour Act and what a degree of cynicism, and forged the law; you were voted by the MPs and you had the insolence after three months to come with amendments to the amendments that we adopted, or most of them created to improve that law, so I wonder how you sleep, how you go from here, how you even think about life, it's not clear to me at all. You know, you're telling people, and it's really possible that it happened, or God forbid it happens, that these people are now 53 years old and they're left without their mate and you're saying, you have to wait another two years to exercise your right. It's really unremembered, such a relationship. And, worst of all, you are not like these learned individual MPs of the congregation who, with theatre performances and speeches, advocate some proposal of a ruling coalition or government, and perhaps intimately not convinced of that. What is worst of all, Slobodan Lalovic, you as an MP and as a minister believe in all this, and you really, in a way that is only suitable for you, represent these methods of accounting with citizens according to the IMF model. We warn the general public and citizens, especially pensioners and all those who, in this way and by this law that you propose, should gain the right to retire, that this is one of the worst possible moves a government can come up with, one minister and citizen of this country, in relation to its fellow citizens or residents in the country in which it lives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19974	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19975	Dear People's MPs, I will use these three minutes first to ask the parliamentary question of the Minister of Labour that I asked when considering the Labour Act -- how many new employees have received a job in privatised enterprises, and how many have been left without a job? Does having no answer mean that this is an extremely good relationship with the new employees or is it the other way around? Secondly, regarding the proposed text of the PIO law, I have a question for the minister. It is said that there are no funds in the Pensions Fund, and that there are funds to reconstruct 500 squares of the PIO branch building in the Kingdom, to build new 300 squares, that the pre-calculation value is about 2m euros, that the investor is the Republic Fund PIO and that it will cost approximately two and a half million euros when the investment is completed. The contractor is from Novi Sad, and those who work in the construction of the King and the surrounding cities have as much as you want. I've talked about these investors many times and about those who perform these works, which is so-called. The urban mafia. When I compare this investment from a fund that does not have the means to pay pensions or debt to pensioners, but will give bonds that many will not experience to collect, or this privatisation mafia will be kidnapped into indemnity to buy what else can be bought and what they are interested in through privatisation, comparing these 500 square square blocks of reconstruction and 300 square square squares of superstructure, I must say that these rooms have so far satisfied the Health Insurance Fund, the PIO for the Kingdom Municipality. What was the interest and reason, the justifiable reason for this situation now to be reconstructed and surmounted? By contrast, there is no Minister Dinkic here, who is to be present, in the process of bank bankruptcy in Serbia and sales, is now left in the end only to sell huge business spaces in the most recent centres of Serbia's cities. The "Invest Bank" building in the nearest center of Kraljev, of 1,200 square meters, was auctioned and not sold for 2m euros. It is likely to be sold in either a second or a third bid, or possibly perhaps far below 2m, and perhaps for a million euros. Compare now 500 square squares of reconstructed space and 300 squares, which is just being built for two and a half million euros, and 1,200 squares of the Invest Bank building for about a million euros. Who kidnaps and robs still here in Serbia? Is this what the government, the funds, the ministry, the urban mafia, the financial mafia and the rest of them are doing, so pensioners can't have pensions that they can't survive? Most people can't survive with the pensions they get. In the end, as it is possible for pensioners to wait three days in front of the post office throughout Serbia, which I have seen many times in the Kingdom, because there is no cash to be paid for, therefore, that church girl they receive twice a month. Who retains these funds, and the excuse is that there is no cash, because the fund transfers to the Post Office to the account, and why is that money not paid to them the moment it was transferred?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19976	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19977	I'd just like to give you two information. The first thing is that there is a question here that a government is going to propose a law that is, as they say, to its harm. On the first day we worked under this law, I said it was the essence and that Kostunica's government is a government that introduces new standards into Serbia's political life. So what can be harmful to the government can be very useful to the citizens and to the state. Unlike most governments, we have a completely different approach. I fully understand that many express the infidelity that it is possible that this is happening in Serbia. I want to tell Serbian citizens one more time -- yes, that's what's happening. Regardless of any future elections, votes and anything else, this is about the state and this is about eight million people, what the future will be like. One more thing to say, for the next two years, until the end of this government's term, even though it surprises some of those present, we're going to do about 90% of what's called transition, the unpopular, the hard one. Indeed, after that, when another government comes, it will have an incomparably easier situation, but this government does not view it that way. She thinks we should do it in the best interests of the citizens and the state. I'd like to remind you, it's also expressed to the infidel that it's possible that some government is doing something against itself. It's not against itself, it's for itself, if we're responsible for this country. Every time you do something for the state and the citizens, it's also for the government. I guess that's normal. I would like to remind you that recently in rich Germany, Schroeder has passed regulations, his government has passed regulations in the field of employment, very unpopular, where, in addition to other things, public works need to pay the euro per hour, etc., which is something below each level for Germany. So Mr. Schroeder and the German government did something that was unpopular for the government, but something that was necessary for Germany to make Germany a normal state, with normal citizens. It is a standard introduced by Kostunica's government and it is the most significant legacy it will leave behind. I don't believe that after her, any government will have the courage to go below that standard, to lay down regulations harmful to citizens, but good for me, to be popular. Now we're going to introduce a comparison of pensions, coordinate with profits, and destroy the fund in half a year. Is that normal? No, of course not. Just one piece of information. It has been spoken here many times by the MPs, it has been spoken of with the right -- where is the property from that pension fund? There is a belief in the public that a lot of funding from the pension fund has been spent on various things. I think it's a rational and good approach. We're preparing a law on the property of a pension fund, which we want to cover, based on everything we can come up with, paperwork and clues, the property of a fund, whether it's the "Sava Center", who it is, what it is and from that fund property, then the fund will be able to strengthen its financial position, whether it rents it, sell it if it doesn't need something, etc. I would also like to tell the MPs that they will have a relatively quickly before them and the law on the property of the PIO Fund, which I think is a very important thing and most MPs have talked about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19978	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 73 of the amendment, with correction, together are the mid-term MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19979	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is bad, the law is restrictive, if only two provisions are observed, provisions in members relating to the way and dynamics of pension harmonisation and to raising the age line. For that very reason, we have submitted these amendments. We will insist on these amendments and expect the support of all MPs here, and SRS MP Toma Nikolic has promised us earlier, he says -- I will vote for your amendments, however, they are solid. When it comes to members 73, 74, and 72, it's about family pensions, and these members are restrictive. I'd like to remind you how it was in our time, I always want to point out that pensioners know about pensioners, that they know about pensioners, even family people, how it was at the time of the SPS, in that difficult time, but with honor. The limbs came right at 45, widows with 50 and parents at 60. When the DOS came or, rather, DS, these conditions were significantly sharpened. When it comes to limbs - 48, widows - 53 and 63 for parents. Now the minister is even more restrictively suggesting: 50, 55 and 65 years. Of course, the government here, as well as in several other members, proposes the phasing out of the age limit from 2006 to 2008. We, as well as when it comes to the age limit for pensioners, have made a new amendment that implies a graduality by 2011. We think this proposal is good, but again I want to point out that we are going to insist on our amendments, so the average pension is at least 60% of the average salary. I expect the support of all parliamentary groups and to delay the application of tightening conditions to obtain an age pension. The minister came out, and I wanted to say a few more things. When it comes to the stability of the fund, we keep talking about not having enough money. One of the most important conditions for the stability of the fund are contributions, are original funds. There are more opportunities to ensure the stability of the fund. One of these options is raising the contribution rate. Our contribution rate is 22% now. All this is explained by the fact that investors will come in this way, because in Serbia there will be good conditions to start production. However, these investments have nothing to do with it. At this point, the most important thing is to save the stability of the funds and the ability to pay off pensions. On the other hand, we have a situation to reduce the number of employees. In the last four years alone, 500,000 people have lost their jobs. When 500,000 people lose their jobs, no wages, no pension payments, no health insurance payments, no salary taxes. So that's a huge deficit for every government register. For example, when we talk about Pomoravlje, about my end and about the Parachin cementery, there were 3,000 workers, who paid contributions for pension insurance, health insurance and income tax. Now there's 700 of them, less than in 2000. Now there's about 750,000 tons of production, in our time there's a million tons. That's another big question. On the other hand, when we talk about some rationalization, the minister comes out, and I wanted to ask him a question, is it true, I don't know, the Director of the Republic Pension Insurance Office has only received 500 workers in the last two or three years. That's a terrible thing. Or, when representatives of the Democratic Party, or head Dusan Petrovic, spoke of it as necessary and necessary to reduce the administration. There were 9,000 employees working in state authorities until 2000. Today, there are 27,000 in those same organs. It's hypocrisis and hypocrisy -- let's cut it down, and they've just received 20,000 people. That's terrible. Or, the minister talks about the social programme and says that all social programs are good. Believe me, in Serbia, no social programme is good, not even the tobacco industry's social programme, where people received 30,000 - 40,000 euros. The most important thing for every man is the job and those who got 40,000 euros, it's spent for a few years, and they're without any chance of finding another job. That's why the SPS policy has always been, and today, that the state has to take care of everything. All relevant political parties in parliament will say here – private property is law, private property is better and more efficient. We agree only to the extent that private property is in some way the necessity of modern times, but the state, if there is no socialism, has to take care of everything, of every company, of every company, of every institution, because this experience has shown us in Serbia what we have of these huge sales in Serbia. Foreigners who came, when we talk even about good sales, they all fired workers, there were fewer employees everywhere, and there were reduced salaries in each place, production is nowhere to be increased significantly. What's the epilogue of everything? The extraprofit is worn by these strangers. There's no special investment. If there are, they're not foreign investments, they're from their countries, they're investments they've received, and they're from domestic production, where they worked, they're from our country. So there's a series of possibilities when we're talking about this fund being stabilised. Stabilization is new employment, stabilisation can also mean slightly greater contributions. That's a fact. Finally, since I will no longer appear under this law and amendments, I want to underline once again that we continue to insist that all of our amendments be adopted, we especially expect support when it comes to how pensions are coordinated, that pensions must be 60% at least of the average wage. It's a good amendment and in my opinion it's still a better solution than the Swiss formula, because the Swiss formula in two and a half years led to the average pension from 90% to 63%. It'd be even worse. We insist that the age limit be moved until 2008 and 2011, and what will be 2008, what will be in 2011, some new government, some new assembly will decide on it, but it is very important that all MPs in the Assembly accept this amendment at this time. We expect it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19980	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 74 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would only at first remind the chairman, Mr. Angelkovic, that there was a small incident in the day before yesterday when I presented the law in principle. During a time period of one minute, the bell was constantly turned on. The chairman said he unconsciously did it, that it was not intentional. I accepted that. When I think about it a little bit more, if it's not conscious then it's reflex. Since I was a doctor then I went a little further, I allowed myself – what is the reflex, conditional in any case or political?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19982	Mr. Momchilov, when you ask, I have to answer. In order for it to be reflex or by accident, I would have to use my hand, consciously or unconsciously. Since it's obviously made for smaller people, and I'm taller, then I've pressed my foot, more specifically my knee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19983	If it was already a political reflex, I thought it was no wonder, what would be the incentive of the primary to have such a reflex in such a place. I'm sure it would be an incentive if someone started criticizing the unsuspecting government, their leg went down immediately, and that's one automation later. The conditional reflex requires an extra one. What's that extra? It's a radical. If you're not criticizing, your leg's going down. It happened to me, and after a minute of pressure, I had to leave the pay phone thinking I'd wasted my time, and it's not my turn to break the Rules of Procedure. But I had ten more minutes to talk. Please, Mr. Angelkovic, don't let the same situation happen, I was afraid that the reflex wasn't working tonight, so I could put what I wanted in peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19984	I'll give you back your time, two minutes you've won the prize, and I'll make it up to you the first time you want, so you don't turn out to be damaged by my reflex. I have no intention of damaging you for one second.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19985	I didn't even say that. I just tried to give one rational explanation when the bell rang a minute. In the name of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 74 and, in line with this so far as it has been presented several times, we believe that it is necessary to delete this member because he says that an exceptional provision of Article 9 of this Law is granted by the parent when he graduates, and then the cascade increase in the censorship of the years, which is already present in other categories that are treated by members 71 and beyond. Since Mr. Minister was here, he left us again, I was very surprised when he said - you're criticizing, not giving solutions. We gave, but he was gone. Why didn't he listen? Mr Krasic has repeatedly said what we Serbian radicals think is a good solution. First, what I want to resent is the minister, and you're going to tell him why he's giggling on other people's feathers. That's the man who didn't write that law. He and you don't deny it. I again quote Predrag Kovacevic on the round table - Reforming the pension system in Serbia "Until the pension of three pillars", in November of last year. According to Mr Kovacevic of the Ministry of Finance -- the law worked by a team of experts from the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, "Bering Point", colleagues from Croatia. There's no Ministry of Labour. In principle debate, I told you: October of the month in Cavtat in Croatia a referendum - Pension Reform in Serbia, and the conference is called - Second International Conference, Pension Fund, Capital Market and Financial Environment. Who's the referent? No Serb is a participant, not one from Serbia. He's referring to Mrs. Rosa Chiape. I have an entire exhibition, I can give you in slides, where the solutions that this law includes are given. So that story, that some foreigners, let's say the IMF is more caring than ourselves, smarter and knows better, comes into our house, what's our interest to accept, as if we're underage, I don't want to say "stupid," because we're not, and we need to believe that someone's party interest is more important than our domestic interest, I don't think it's absolutely standing and that's what the problem is. It's not true that the motive is to make us feel better. No, it is a noose and a twist on the hands by the IMF that this must be fulfilled by the end of this year in the context of the restructuring of the public sector and the promises previously made, as the violent adoption of the law on the termination of the NIS law is the same story and that is true. Don't lie to our MPs and the public here. You have to do this to get a continuation of the arrangement, in order to welcome it well in 2006, when a billion and six hundred million will arrive for payment. That's the good that's waiting for us. Tell that to the people. Mr. Secretary has brought a whole series of false data, untrue and half-truths here. He told us what it's like in the world, what it's like anyway. He says in an interview, and it's on the government site, the government hung it as very important, his statement says -- most of the world's countries have been working long ago, so it's time for us to move that border too. Then he says -- 14% of the social product goes to pensions in Serbia, while on average it is 8.1 in OECD countries. So it's been working longer, so it's time for us to move in. I ask him, why doesn't he say how much work is done in Italy? Do men at 58, women at 56 retire? Is the country of Italy some left-wing country not to be looked at? I ask him what it's like in Denmark. Is that where you go when you're 60 and 62? I don't want to ask him about any other countries. It was the same story that was the relationship between retirement and salary. I'm asking you, is there a 60 to 100% pension income in France? Is it possible in Germany 72% of gross personal income pensions, or is that not true? Is in Slovenia 75% of gross personal income that pension? Of course, I'm not speaking in my mind. Here's the data. There's all kinds of data. This is a dynamic area, reforms are being introduced, the situation changes from day to day. But this is the point. Germany won't even change its system from the foundation, it won't go into reform, it's just trying to fix its system. It is said – we are very unique for this pension fund, 22% of our income goes to that pension fund. Look in Hungary: 22 plus 6. They have three pillars. So, not the first and third, as we introduce voluntarily, they have a mandatory one. When you take 20 - 26, how much is that? Not to read those figures to you in Poland, they're even bigger. It's already close to what Toma Bushetic was saying when the Socialists had it. Slovenia stands out 24.35% of personal income for its pension funds. Why don't you say so? There are also those who stand out far less, that's true. But, give it to the continent, think Holistically of the matter. Don't rip off anything that tells you. So, the situation is colorful. This is the reality of Europe. Europe does not require anyone to adopt legislation. She only has directives that must be respected. Europe is interested in free flow of people, goods and money. These are the directives Europe requires, all the rest of you tell someone else that Europe is asking us to. To be perfectly clear, to respond to your Mr. Secretary and pass on, the SRS in its program, which was written years ago, has all three pillars. We believe that a good pension system must rely on all three pillars: and on this primary one, which has been with us so far, that we should gradually introduce this secondary one, as it will say - mandatory, but which will be privatised, which will go to the market where they will capitalise with the assets of a man who knows the name and last name, with all the risks that the market carries. We think there's room for that one, but everything needs to be introduced gradually and slowly. Today there's no excuse to go to the third pillar. Why? What reality is in the country of Serbia, that's what we talked about. We have 1.500,000 pensioners. How many unemployed we have - the figure is from 800 to millions. How much is in the gray economy of citizens? The average personal income, you say, is 200 euros, someone says 180; official Europe says 180 euros is the average personal income. Maybe they're wrong, you didn't tell them exactly. And the average pension of 138 euros. The most important thing is this moment -- that 90% of our pensioners today have a pension of less than 180 euros. You now want to put most of them in an extremely difficult position with this reform, as you imagined. I said now I'm starting to talk about what the SRS is proposing. Absolutely not to shift the burden of transition to the most vulnerabilable category of our population, which is our pensioners. There are two other categories that are equally vulnerabilities, and perhaps more vulnerabilities, these are children and disabled people. Except that you have not yet attacked children with such regulations by the narod, pensioners, disabled and suffering the consequences of an inhumane rule. It's your idea to cut 14.3 out of the budget, and then the gross social product will grow, then that money goes into investment. You say that's a condition. We say no. You hire these millions of unemployed, you get these out of the gray economy to start working, and then you'll have a better relationship, you won't be 1:1 as you say, although he's a little bit bigger than 1.2, so you'll be able to get that fund, that first pillar to strengthen, that pillar of solidarity that he's been up to now. But you say there's no money. And where are those four to six billion that you've advocated here in 2000 and you're talking about -- they're about to arrive, or they're here, so they're gone. What these loans are going to be, whose payment comes next year, and they're going to be $1.6 billion or euros, I don't know exactly. What did it go into? I ask you, why, when you talk about it all, don't tell the real truth to people why there's no investment in this country? In all the OSCE documents, as well as other organizations, and I admit, I don't know these international organisations, you know that far better, and the abbreviations and the vast international organisations, it is said everywhere that the central problem of our society is corruption. Another problem is disrespect for legality, which suggests that it's insecure to invest here. How could you get the money? Of course, by privatizing. What do you do with privatisation - past government, present, from an affair to an affair? "Danon," not to mention, a bunch of affairs. Check this out with the military sale, crack the pumpkins around the prey, sell the buildings, sell out the property of the army. He can't do it without a scandal. A thief to a thief. Wherever you bury, you see corruption and what's wrong. That's why there's no investment. Say it. You don't have the strength or the will, the desire for those carriers of that corruption, which the press points to, you often call it "yellow" because of it... You are inclined to bring the press to court, a real court, for expressing your free opinion, and you will not be caught in the real problem, which would be a solution, which is a fight against corruption. Only someone else will be able to do that. Mr. Minister said we shed tears here. So what? Come on and let's pour, and it's for people. Is it more of a problem for me whether to be honest or dishonest? Do we Pharisees, like you, carry the papers that others wrote to you and read here? There's a much better explanation in the paper for these laws than we've heard from the resolution ministers. You underestimate us fellow Members of the people and the citizens of our country. You've been calculated exactly what this law will bring. Coli Smiljanic read Mr Nenadic's study, which was detailed and presented in a journal on 29 August. He said, "If the current conditions remain, the Swiss system, if it is true that in 2011, the average personal income of 500 euros, the maximum pension will be 200 euros and if it does not stay." It's not clear to me: the Socialist gentlemen say, our former coalition partners, that they will correct one amendment to this law, that they will ask for an average of 60% of their personal income. I don't understand the mechanism. If you set up a mechanism for the pension to remain 60% of gross personal income, then the law falls. It's impossible for the law, with these mechanisms that it predicted, to secure this level of pension. That's impossible. What's it gonna be? A prank, I can already feel it in the air, a wolf full of sheep on the count. That way, only this parliament can vote this law. The hoax is made up. The prank is good, and that's why you have these answers -- stuck up, mumbled, by the minister, that no one understands anything, and that's what's most likely going to happen. I just want to say this in the end. This government has shown its true face. This parliament will show its moral face. We with good wages, which are 100,000 and more, have no moral right to take away the poor and what little they have. We can do this, but the big shit's gonna stay and a big shame on us, 'cause we're hitting on pensioners. And who are the pensioners? Our neighbors, our relatives. They're people who've been fairly singled out all their working lives and we can't take them. They've done their job. They fulfilled their obligation. You can't take from whoever already did everything he could for the sake of some retired generation. If you do that, it's sassy and it's a thief. It's stealing, at least. These people have endured ten years of sanctions, bombings, living nearly ten years shorter than their environment, and these are people who are far sicker than in the environment; they can't be as good as in developed countries living in prosperity and where there's no war here. These are, after all, you tell us that I speak demagoguely, those of our parents, grandparents who separate us from that church and our grandchildren from their pensions. Now, you've been hit. Shame on you if you pass a law like this. The Serbian Radical Party will never do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19986	I thank Mr. Momchilov. I gave you two minutes at the beginning, two minutes after 15, so I owe you another six minutes. I'll make it up to you, don't worry about the bell that was for technical reasons. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. We're moving on. Members of the 74th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic, Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 75 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miloljub Albianic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Combat and Social Affairs adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Slobodan Adzic has withdrawn the amendment to Article 75 at a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The 75th Amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and MPs Meho Omerovic and Ljiljana Nestorovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to article 75 was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. The fact that some other MPs have submitted amendments in the same text is their problem, not the People's MP Milorad Mircic's. I don't suppose they prescribed his amendment. National MP Milorad Mircic is seeking his amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SRS, to delete article 75. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, although it is clear to the citizens of Serbia who have followed this transfer, and to the MPs, that everything is clear about this law, but in order to be clear, I will also read this article 75. "Extremely from the provision of Article 22 of this Law," and Article 22, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, refers to harmonising pension growth once a year, or since an amendment by Albianic was adopted, then it will be twice a year, according to the minister. How will coordination still be done, that is, how will pension coordination be avoided with cost growth and profit growth? He says this: "1 as of 1 April 2006, with the cost of living and the average income of employees in the territory of the Republic in the previous six months, in a percentage representing a sum of 62.5% of the growth rate, i.e. the cost of life and 37.5% of the growth rate, respectively." So, in addition to these two alignments, we've asked all four alignments over the year to stay. Here, pensions will be coordinated if, for example, the cost of life increases exceeds 62.5 percent, and if the earnings go over 37.5%; for the cost of living, what economic policy you're leading, I'm sure they'll cross over, but for salary growth I'm not the safest. From 1 April 2007 percentage 75, i.e. 75:25; from 1 April 2008 87.5:12,5 etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 75 is to be deleted from the law. The amendment by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic and article 75 should be adopted and all amendments by the Serbian Radical Party should be deleted, leaving four adjustments during the year. The fact that you gentlemen may be complaining that you cannot provide funds, so it is very easy to get out of it – resign, call the elections, and let the citizens choose those who are capable of providing and producing, and pensions, and wages, and standards and everything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19988	I thank Mr. Markovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19989	From the point of view of this provision as stated in Article 75, which we have submitted the amendment, that is one thing, and then this amendment that we are asking for the erasure of that article 75, for the reasons we have stated for days, loses every sense if one small prank is being taken into account again, that the government has accepted the amendment to Article 75, which was submitted by MP Milojub Albianic. It is an amendment that also follows the amendment to Article 22, which the government adopted, where pension harmonisation is decided to take place twice a year. It is the spring and autumn alignment, April 1st and October 1st. Now, in these transitional and final provisions, the geniuses figured out how to do it in 2006, 2007 and 2008. Why? Because in those three years, the second harmonisation of the law with the part where the conditions for obtaining pension rights for years of age are changed. All these problems the government is trying in the transitional and final provisions to impose on us are solved if the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party to Articles 4, 6, 7, 8 and 22 are adopted. So all the problems have been solved and therefore, of course, these amendments that we have submitted to Articles 70, 71, 72, 73, 74 and 75 are to be adopted. It's a bill of law. Because the need for transitional and final provisions is also lost, and for this massacre and dissipation of three years of these rights adjustments, unfortunately, adapting rights to the conditions laid down by the law. What is likely to be used in promoting one of these truly uninvolved draft laws is the key two arguments. The first is reportedly some IMF request, or ultimatum, cannot change anything, nor for a decimal. The second argument used is that there are not enough funds in the PIO Fund. These arguments are falling into the water. Why? You have a positive study, so now on October 5th, you start with these other negotiations, so there are several tranches approved by the IMF and the entire World Bank system and particularly European investment banks and funds. When it's all summed up, it's a pretty big amount. Furthermore, to remind you, you forgot your Minister Parivodic's promise to move from September 1st to a terrible investment in Serbia. You forgot that 2005 was a year of employment and labour imports. You forget the 6.5 billion that have long been waiting for you at the border. You forget it's been written off to the London and Paris Club, it seems to me 66%, maybe a little bit more. You forget 4.5 billion is in Cyprus. You forget that successful privatisation has been made and that several billion euros have come every year. You forget all that, but don't forget there's a lack of income in the PIO Fund. Anyone who is retired, who expects to receive that pension, can freely ask you a question -- where that money is, because you promoted that contract between voters and political parties, Micunovic said, although there is no such thing in theory, that is, once upon a time, and it has long been abandoned that theory of a social contract, but never mind, he is allowed to sin, he is allowed to do all things. When this debate, when questions are asked, you can see for yourself that there is no answer and with the right of pensioners say – our resources exist, only let the Government bring it out in public, to the light of the day to see it. Borka Vukic said it wasn't true that there was a crime, it's not true that there were funds. There are funds, you get that money back. Velimir Ilic went, Batic went, they found the money. Mladjan Dinkic went and found the money for the first time, the second time he went and said nothing. So math is very simple. Here, on the basis of what is known to all Serbian citizens, I have agreed on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. Even Dinkic still went and said – we have a surplus, we don't know what to do with the money. Let me remind you, when we adopted the budget and budget rebalancing that Mr Dinkic said that something over two billion is detached from privatisation to pay off pensions. You remember that, and if you don't remember, take a stenogram and read what's promised. That's what I'm saying. Of course, that didn't get into the public debt story, and the debt went public debt. Public debt is now a whole new thing that's been invented. So, incomes exist, they're recorded. They're probably at the National Bank of Serbia and she's holding that money, who knows where she keeps those deposits. The answer to that question we have been waiting for a year and a half, we cannot get it, there is no answer from Jelasic where foreign reserves are held, what is the structure of the foreign reserves. There's no answer to that question. Furthermore, obviously the trend of economic development, since we have almost read it to us, leaders in the Balkans, and this fits with your password -- Serbia in the first place, Serbia leader in the Balkans, etc... How come there's no leader in the Balkans and there's no one here for these minimum pensions? You've got to say something - we're telling the truth here, and we're a little advertised here, so we're a little over the top. So, the revenue and expenditure side related to public spending in this part of pension-inhabited insurance is in line. Then why do you hate pensioners? Because they didn't vote for you? That's no reason to hate someone. Why are you passing a law like this that's probably one-third of the people's MPs present here to guess, if not in a year, then in two, three or four years. I ask some MPs a question – you will run out of mandate, you know what problems it is to hire an MP in a company, that there are MPs who are almost 60 years old, and where when they lose their employment, they will have some internship but they cannot meet the conditions for retirement, did you think about yourself when you supported this concept of the law? Of course you haven't thought about yourself because you feel that you are there to give from God, think about it a little bit. Next, how do we increase the income of our mandatory funds? It's very simple to increase the number of employees. What did the government do to increase the number of employees? She gave social programs as an alternative or as some kind of euthanasia -- we give a social programme, you from Telekom who wants to go, depending on the years of internships, you can take 20 or 30,000 euros. We have a situation and with a state administration similar, you remember the Sutanovac; the federal government broke down, the Sutanovac "massed" 24 salaries, got a job. Dinkic's wife, and she's working again at some ministry, even though she's taken severance. Are these pensioners in a similar position? Is anyone able, who is 48 or 58 and so many years of internship, to manage as these people do? It's not possible. How to reconcile the spending from the pension fund? It's very simple. You have accepted the system of reckoning points; if you had moved on to the system of some classes, so that you would have divided the rights of five or six border amounts, so that it would be a coefficient of 1, 2, 3 or 4, so that 1 would be 10,000, 2 would be 15,000, 3 would be 20,000, and you would have balanced the social status of the pensioner. This is how you held back the image of injustice from working relationships, and in the meantime the legal concept of working relationship changed. You haven't thought about it, you don't want to. You say, "We've been tightened by the IMF." Why didn't the IMF tighten you up for foreign reserve? No, because that's where other people's money is kept, money that provides some security, artificial security, saves the course, insults everyone here, loses the incentive to work. Why would someone who has some money invest in the economy, when with that money they can make on the financial market, on the basis of interest, make more income than they do to organize production and to work and take the risk of employees and to be pressured, chased, recruited in the form of any of these inspection services. Has anyone lost motive to work, and here everything is ruined for this economic motive - the Ericson affair, the sugar affair, the Janjusevic-Kolesar affair, not to order, you know how many of these affairs themselves. The question is who owns these cements. The one in Popovac says it's not a side, it's ours. You know, the ones that appear in the tenders, there in Amsterdam in some warehouse, registered, and who knows who you're talking about some troubles. We've got the Sabre, 13,000 arrested, something's gonna clear up - there's nothing. You can see that now they're going after each other and they're not getting rid of each other again. Why isn't he getting rid of it? Because there is no strategic view of either individual separatists in terms of social life, nor is there generally a political consensus. It happens to us now that this law is criticised by those who voted in favour of this law two years ago and praised it as something of a god given, which is inevitable and God given to our pensioners. That's what's going on with us. There's no system, and there's no one who thinks that he can profit from this pay phone from a pensioner with a story that dear pensioners make a terrible mistake. When it comes to pensioners, no one wins, and all the parties lose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-21-0.u19990	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MPs Slobodan Adzic and Miloljub Albianic submitted, in the same text, an amendment proposing that a new member of 75a be added after article 75a. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the basis of Article 140(5), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 75b be added after Articles 75 and 75a. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment to be legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
