ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 94 MPs. Before I approach the establishment of the number of MPs present in the hall, let me remind you, on this day, exactly one year ago, thanks to the votes of all of you, it was possible for the first time since World War II to raise the flag of the Republic of Serbia, with its national coat of arms, here on the Assembly building. Here's another card of mine. It'll probably be flag day someday. Thank you. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are more than 87 people, or more than one third of MPs, and that we have the opportunity to start a working day. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from being attended by MP Marko Djurisic. We move to a joint principled search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – I would like to thank the Vice-Presidents who further referred me to what was happening yesterday. On this basis, the first word has been made by MP Rajko Baralic, so let the MP Stefan Zankov prepare, and then the MP Milan Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18849	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Balinovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few minutes is available to the SPS parliamentary group for these two laws. Let me say a few sentences. Yesterday, Zarko Obradovic, on behalf of the SPS, made the basic views of our political party and our parliamentary group regarding these two laws. I'll talk about something else. Yesterday, it was said that we were changing laws that were passed in 1990, 1991 and 1992. Of course, it's hard to change the laws passed by the SPS. That is why competent legislators are needed, and MPs who understand very much the essence of the state administration are needed. DOS wasn't into it, he was into something else, and that's why we didn't have these laws here. It would be best if we had adopted these laws, and if we had previously adopted a new constitution, then we would have had ease and different, so to speak, a mechanism that would give us more freedom in this matter. But I understand why that is. Those who believed they could bring the constitution, when they had 176, didn't, and now it's a complicated legal and constitutional procedure. One day, we won't mind this one, except for a few adjustments that only time requires to be changed. Why are these two laws important? Because the citizens of one state are expecting... (and I must say that it is ungrateful when you are the first speaker in the morning, because there is a large larma in the hall, in this way a number of MPs express non-legality, which is not good; we have started to work, we have to allow the speaker to say what he has come up with) So it is important for the citizens of a state to have an effective state administration. She doesn't always have to be big, but it would be desirable to be cheap. What was going on here? There are two data: from 5 October to today, the number of officials, in a broader sense, in the administration increased by 27, or 32,000. Minister Dinkic argues it is 32,000, and some other data say it is 27,000, with some federal authorities, such as Carina, moving to a republican level, so it's in that number as well. But definitely, over 25,000 new systematic jobs in the administration are from October 5th to today. It doesn't have to be bad in itself, but it turned out to be bad. Why? Because in these 25,000 new jobs, in a personal sense, there was employment of a large number of incompetent, often unmotivated for certain jobs, without any experience. I have to say, in a number of cases, and without good intentions, the people who first worked day, for the first time received a work book, doing very important state affairs, some of them were at the very top of the importance for one country and its citizens. Now we are passing some laws that should, if possible, preserve in a certain sense and ensure that such things do not happen in the future. Yeah, it's just that she's left real because of that way of hiring people. I have to say here, there are political parties that have completely disappeared from Serbia's political scene, such as the Democratic Party of Serbia, which today has 2.5 thousand people in the state apparatus. If you want me to list where they are, I can, although some of them have left the party. These are: The Institute of Consensus, Justice, various other areas, where, without any standard, a vast number of people were employed who were either members of the Democratic Christian Party or were conditioned to become members of the Christian Party. There's more, of course. There are many people here in Parliament from New Democracy and the current Liberals. There's at least 30 deputies in this building who came in here with that party book. Look, now we're passing some laws that need to regulate it one way or another, of course, there's still what I'm talking about, as you know, and we're going to face it in the coming years. On the other hand, a huge number of competent people with great experience in management either moved to marginal tasks or practically lost any work obligations, some here only pro forms come, some under this or those pressures had to change all that, etc. I look forward to any law that puts order in this area. It would be best if we were a rich country, so when someone comes to power to say so – my administration goes with me, now someone else comes and brings their administration. We're far from it. That's why there's a law that needs to regulate how government officials are employed. Also, I want to underline the position of my SPS parliamentary group – it is good that the Government Act is passed, it is good that we will pass these two laws, it is good that we have some other laws, but it is not good that there is no strength, there is no courage in Parliament. The MPs are afraid of someone. They have no power to pass the Law on the National Assembly. I don't know who's afraid of who. I don't know who promised who. Our parliamentary group will not vote for the budget this year if, at least, there is no budget of the National Assembly. It is no longer normal for us to put up with the supremation carried out over the legislative authority. If we are responsible people, if we understand the job we are here for and whose name we are here and whose interests we represent, then once we say that Parliament, this home and its essence are the most that exists in the democracy of a country and in the system we share power, and in its very essence. I would be happy if we had a law on the National Assembly, if we knew what this was about, if we weren't subject to anyone's goodwill and charity. I'm not talking about material resources. I'm talking about other questions. We should be what the citizens expect us to be. And citizens expect us, first of all, to be independent, to respond to our political agenda, to the political will that we have come to Parliament and on the basis of this political will to ask the Government and all other things that belong to us under the law and the Constitution to do certain state affairs, in the Constitution and the law prescribed. No ministers, no governments, no agencies, no regulatory bodies, no NGOs, can be older and cannot be head of parliament. Now it is a situation in some cases, I apologize. So I advocate and beg the MPs, who understand what I'm talking about, and I believe everyone here knows what I'm talking about, to launch an initiative to pass a law on the National Assembly, because that's the least we're expected to do. If we are unable to pass the Law on the National Assembly then our credibility is at stake, and I have to say, and someone's goodwill and good intentions don't take much to agree on, we had practically half a step to the solution. For reasons that are political, we have not passed the Law on the National Assembly. And now everyone in Serbia will have everything regulated, only the MP won't be able to have the right to counsel, nor can he get a computer, nor can he have a phone line that can provide for a visit to the Internet, nor can he have a chair to sit down as a man, nor can a whole series of other things do, and I go to board sessions regularly. My colleagues know that I often visit committees and we are referred there – every inspector in Serbia has a computer, has a car, and that's good, but it's not good that every MP in Serbia doesn't have a computer and it's not good that five cars serve 250 MPs in the National Assembly, and it's not good that the National Assembly depends on the goodwill of anyone. The National Assembly is the hat of everything. If we don't give ourselves that meaning that belongs to us under the Constitution, then no one will give it to us. And, therefore, I am in favour of passing a law on the National Assembly, which, with a set of these laws that we are talking about here, was a round-off legislative process, which would ensure that we can function uninterruptedly and normally. I remind you and speak for the public, we have had a case of this kind, a fine case, the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, Emilia Krstic, as you know, the only citizen of this country who was in a working relationship, who gave birth to a baby and on that basis could not exercise the right to maternity leave, because from party discipline, from understanding the essence and responsibility is no longer a national MP, a new colleague came to this place. If she had been a maid in the National Assembly, if she had done anything else, she would have exercised that right. That's not allowed. It is impossible, I know that a MP cannot be elected for a certain time, as no judge can be chosen, but there must be a law on the National Assembly to predict how this will be regulated. I apologize to Emilia Krstic for mentioning her name. I asked the board who was in charge, which is the Administrative Board, to resolve this issue and never resolve it, even though there were promises. I'm asking my colleagues from that committee again to give me an answer to that question. I asked her to have every opportunity, like any mother who gives birth at any other job in Serbia. So that's why I'm saying that Serbian citizens understand that they are not MPs who are on the pages of some newspapers and that Parliament is not what is on the pages of some so-called. Newspaper. This is a serious place where 100 laws are passed annually, where great energy is spent. It also takes a high degree of tolerance, a great understanding, great knowledge, a huge engagement to do all this. That's why I expect you, Mr. President, and I expect each of us to launch the initiative and pass a law on the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18850	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in inflation of the legislative proposals sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have reached the state administration and civil servants. This topic is important, but in the opinion of Serbian radicals, it is much more important to speak in the Serbian Assembly these days about Kosovo and Metohija, which is why, judging by your reaction to the latest events that took place below, the government of the Republic of Serbia is not ready to object to anyone or to oppose anyone. It's like there wasn't a reaction. There are other burning topics that plague all citizens of Serbia, from national issues, as I said, to economic and social issues. Prices are unconstitutional and the fact is that the standard of living is never lower. But, okay, we'll talk about this today. The organization of the state administration is not good and there are many shortcomings. The basic cause of this lies in the fact that the authorities of the state administration are ordinary instruments of parties in power, which are being misused to the extreme limits for their narrow party interests, especially today when the government is also divided by a feudal principle, where each party participating in the government controls certain resolutions throughout the country. The situation has not been great either during and over the period of the rule of all previous regimes, since there has been a multi-party in Serbia, but the instrumentalisation and abuse of perfection have led to a five-octobaric powder that, following a revolutionary shift of power, employs a large number of members of its parties, so that the number of people in the state administration has increased three times, contrary to all their promises of rationalisation of the state administration. Today, the state administration is working three times as many people as five years ago. The "care" of all of you from the great DOS five years ago, so I don't make any difference in the relations of the previous and this government today, for the state administration dates back to when you were in opposition. All remember lies and manipulation that Serbia is a police state with 100,000 police officers, forcing fear into the bones of all state officials and officials and sending a message that many of them will be rushed and fired from work. Later it turned out that the MIP worker was about 25,000, that there were few and the competition for the reception of new workers was constantly open. There were many abuses when the great DOS was in power, when it was directly controlled by the state apparatus and made it its own toy. With people who have controlled the executive power since 5 October 2000, no legal solution will have a major impact on the work of the state administration, because, for reasons I have just said, there is no political will and willingness to settle this area in one real way. The only SRS has the power to regulate the state administration, because Serbian radicals have been leading us to ideas and attitudes that, practically since the formation of the party, we have not changed at any price, as our party's president, Dr Vojislav Seselj, shows. Unlike us, all of you from the large DOS are led by a personal, mostly material interest, as well as when last Monday's vote, when it was traded, no less than "the oil industry of Serbia". As far as the text of the bill itself is concerned, it deals mainly with cosmetic and termological changes, the type of "not sewn but neck", probably simply by translating the laws of other countries and making some "frankenstein" laws, failed combinations whose application in practice is likely to be impossible, as well as with a large number of other laws adopted in this assembly. In some legislation in the world, there are ministries that have deputies, some of which have state secretaries, as well as deputies. I'm talking about the executive system. With us, if this bill is passed, the State Secretary will be the deputy minister. And that's better than the minister being deputy secretary of state. A joke aside, you absolutely didn't need this here. There is also the Council of Ministers, as the advisory body of the Minister and the like. where it is necessary to hire its members, such as this SDP, practically hired all its members with its minister, Lalovic, who has 10 assistants or deputies, does not matter. In the end, if you really want to make a shift in a qualitative sense, of course, not in quantitative, depolitize, professionalise and rationalize the state administration and find ways to deal with corruption in the state administration, to defeat bureaucracy and create a service whose purpose of existence will be satisfied with the legal and physical persons in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18852	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18853	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr Secretary, certainly it is good for the state administration to depolitize. It is good that it is gradually turning from the domain of the mere government into something that is a public service, so that the daily life of Serbian citizens is more tolerable. The affairs of the state administration are becoming more and more numerous. Just to remind ourselves: first, domestic legislation, as we know, must be consistent with the European legislation; secondly, every new regulation must contain an analysis of the effects of the same regulation. Thirdly, the State Administration must also have trained officials to implement the law on free access to information of public importance. So, honourable fellow MPs, all this requires teams of very serious and trained people, first of all, experts who cannot, nor are allowed to exchange with any change of government. That is why I think it is good to adopt two reform laws and to regulate the area of state administration. In the state administration, like any organization, you have to know who's doing what and why he's responsible. In the current state administration of our state of Serbia, such a situation and such an organisation is not on stage. State officials are being replaced. They are political functions, but they are also people who, as a rule, have no practice and needy knowledge and organise their own work in the state administration. So they're not just bad officials who associate us with arrogance, cruelty and bureaucracy. Only a small number of people in a good work organisation don't know and won't work. The problem is primarily that the affairs of the state administration are run by people without experience and, unfortunately, often without an intelligence that can replace the lack of that same experience. If the adoption and implementation of these laws will limit the terror of government and policy over profession and profession, over one structure that must be set up so that the shift of power is carried out in a way that is almost not felt, then I support both of these laws. But I doubt that. Because of the lack of such laws, classical retribution is also being carried out these days against people whose primary sin is that they are members of the SDP. It is well known that SDP is the only leftist party to be in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which split up with this government due to the concept of privatising public enterprises and their reorganisations. We were the only party in the ruling coalition that, respecting the union agreements, opposed one such reorganisation and privatisation and therefore naturally came to our dissension. Because a left-wing democratic, true left-wing party like SDP couldn't support one concept of reorganisation and privatisation of public enterprises, which doesn't match those whose skin it was in this case, which is our natural allies, I mean unions. Because of these different concepts, something that has been going on for the past few days was not supposed to happen, which is a classic revenge against representatives of the SDP. It is illogical that without analysis, without which and how the Coordination Centre worked, led by Mr Nebojsa Covic, a man simply shifts from his functions. So the arrogance and brutality that the government has dealt with with high-ranking state officials shows that it should not work. I think a law like this, in a situation where it's applied, when the time comes, will prevent and prevent one of these classic retributions. It is normal that civil servants are people who are loyal and loyal to the governing structure, but I will remind you that it is abnormal and that something that has been going on in the past few days, a document signed by ministerial assistants to show their loyalty to Vojislav Kostunica, they signed an act in which they say "we are making ourselves available to you, Mr. President". I think that one such policy and one such practice of such laws should be avoided in the future and in such a way make one state administration that will rightly come up with the right words as a service of citizens. Let's not let politics separate us from something human, let's not let someone just because they're a member of the SDP, and it's called Jelena Dolnic, at a preschool facility on Zvezkara, loses her job because the DSS director has changed, because that's probably how she realized the message of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica. Let's not let someone just as a member of the SDP, the assistant director of some homes, secondary schools, students in the city of Belgrade, be removed at the moment and before the decision on the removal of Nebojja Covic comes into effect, is removed by the director, too, just because Gordana Petrovic is a member of the SDP. I think that the way the reorganisation of the state administration started, through the dismissal of those who are currently members of the SDP, tomorrow may be members of some other parties, I think we should return to what is our basic duty and fundamental obligation, which is to serve the citizens of Serbia who chose us and, above all, to turn the state administration into a public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18854	The word has a National MP Milan Markovic, and let MP Petar Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18855	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice this speech by Mr Meha Omerovic, but everything he said about the SDP now applies to DS from the moment Vojislav Kostunica came into power, and you supported him in all of it, so I can tell you that I have understanding of all of what you've said, I'm just sorry that you remembered to say it too late. When this law was withdrawn on the state administration three months ago, I expected a different law to be found before the MPs again, because of the general belief that the law was withdrawn, and the minister did not deny it at any time because the law was not good. However, we have received the same law and we have received this bill on civil servants and what is most often heard about this public speaker by the government's representatives is that this is being adopted in order to depolitise the state administration, that it will be a guarantee of depolitisation of the state administration and so on. That's why we of the DS have decided that in the same way we are criticising this law, the general places and the principles that this government has run, to show that we can't trust the word of government officials when they say this will be the basis for depolitisation of the state administration. Why do we think this will not be the basis for depolitisation, but rather the opposite that this will be a way to ensure the power of the DSS both in the post-election period and after their loss of political power, that it will ensure its influence on state authority through state officials. Because all of the actions of the government of Vojislav Kostunica since it was formed, so far, have been deeply politicised and because everything that is done in Serbia has been practically divided into power and opposition, and what has been divided into power is shared between the parties that do so, which are: SPS, DSS, G17 and New Serbia Mr Velje Ilic. How can we say that anything created by the government of Vojislav Kostunica will be depoliticized when, for example, the President of the Securities Commission, Milko Stimac, is elected from these benches from the seat of the MP and officials of one of the ruling parties. It was a body that had to be extremely independent, but you didn't take care of it. You are aware that you have 131 MPs and you have been allowed everything and have chosen Mr Milk Stimec as President of the Securities Commission. Afterwards, there have been serious problems that have been raised just in the ability of the executive authorities to influence the members and president of the Securities Commission. It wasn't just you who made a mistake. Unfortunately, the Securities Commission is composed of officials from nearly all parties that exist in Serbia. You as authorities are the most responsible not to and should not have allowed it, even those others who wanted to have their own officials on the same cliché in an independent body. Then there were these huge problems concerning the privatisation of "Knjiza Miloš", which led to the unconsciousness of Mr Milk Stimec right into the office of Deputy Prime Minister Labus and so on, although it would be perfectly logical that there was no communication in this context, especially not informal communication between the Deputy Prime Minister and the President of the Securities Commission. After that, Mr Milko Stimac made some statements, which do not contribute to the ruling coalition and the government of the Republic of Serbia and so on. Of course, it's not the only case. As soon as the Ministry Act was passed, we of the DS warned that we could not establish Serbia by political parties acting in power. All ministries are divided between parties. As far as I know, it's given up on some original agreement, which is that one party lets the minister, the other one, that as much as – you control each other, but you practically divided everything by the length of the minister and down; that resolution belongs to the DSS, this portfolio belongs to the SAA, except the ministers, they don't have ministers, this vault belongs to Velija Ilic and New Serbia, this portfolio is the third one belonging to the G17. We all know that and the public knows that the judiciary, the administration, especially what the citizens may be most interested in, unfortunately, we are a society where it is very important, so-called. The ministries of force belong to the DSS, that the economic portfolio belongs to G17 plus, that Mr. Velija Ilic belongs to the Ministry of Capital Investments, which once consisted of three ministries, and now they are one and that the SPS belong to some other furniture that penetrates all these portfolios, but since it supports the minority government it is logical. What did we get in that way? We have received a country that is difficult for you, within the ruling coalition itself, to be able to consistently make some decisions and implement them afterwards in practice, because otherwise the issue of a coalition that is normally made up of different parties that have different views on many important things, starts with relations with Montenegro, and, moreover, it would be logical that when one of your parties takes a resolution that it will sovereignly implement its party's policy in that portfolio. Very often, this was the end of the fact that the interests of the party were, precisely, members of the party through that portfolio. And if you remember that when we have a problem as a state, then other ministers come out and say – but we can't do anything about it, it belongs to the SPO. So we had an incredible problem at JAT. You know that the problem lasted for months, there were strikes, they want the director to change, they don't want the director to change, and then the minister of capital investment says – but it belongs to the SPO. We cannot use that logic to try to develop an effective state when some state resources belong to some parties. The state resource cannot belong to a foreigner. The party may have the responsibility to manage some state resources, but it cannot belong in such a way that no one can simply point out that something in that vault is wrong and that something needs to be changed. I'll tell you honestly and all the criticisms you've had at the expense of the previous governments. I think that the government of Zoran Zivkovic was far better than the government of Vojislav Kostunica and by its results, and also by this concept that the government, inherited by the government of Zoran Djindjic, took over. So, you remember that in that government, given that many of you participated in this government, especially for a time the DSS, but in that total government participated in the G17, you remember that it wasn't that kind of feudalization. On the one hand, we had a large number of ministers who were not members of political parties, and on the other hand within the ministry could never have happened to be appointed, to be a minister and to be a God in that portfolio, because he simply had deputies from another party who would somehow hold him back in the exercise of his authority. That is why I think it was a far better system and that this system should be applied in future situations when we have coalition governments. It would be good never to share Serbia with coalition governments again in the way that the government of Vojislav Kostunica looked, without being able to react effectively as prime minister when there are some problems in a segment that does not belong to its party. On the other hand, I admit your method is good for preserving power. You shared it that way. Each resolution means a number of MPs and your authority, regardless of the very poor results, works and you maintain that majority and on all the exams you have had in Parliament so far, you have managed to provide most of the 126 and more to survive in power. I think it should have been an advantage to give that solution, so at the cost of not taking so long, because the state's interest is not to keep someone in power as much as it can, but to stay in power for as long as it's useful for the state. The fact is, at one point, we have to try to change our practice that as any government comes to change everything from assistants to deputies to the last official. Here I fully agree, but I say - you are not the authority that has this legitimacy, nor are you, unfortunately, who would have this legitimacy in accordance with our actions. Of course, it's a very controversial situation. Obviously, an independent body dealing with civil servants should approach a solution. That's why I don't think you did the right thing by going out with this law. So, some independent body, though, has never meant anything to you before, so I don't even know if it's going to mean anything in the future. The only thing I can say is that if the DS comes to the opportunity to exercise power again, it will not repeat the mistakes that are being observed between 2000 and 2003, and it certainly will not do what you've been doing since 2003, or since 2004, and so far since you came to power, especially because we believe that you who criticized our mistakes should not have repeated them or even in some segments that you are worse than us. You had to, if you were already criticizing these things to prove yourself better, not to continue what was bad, and frankly what was good in our government you did not continue. The MPs here have repeatedly raised the question of the public in the work and I ask you how to secure the public in the work if we have ministers who are not ready to respect their constitutional obligations. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group and this is also an appeal to you, Mr. Secretary, that if you can help us, I have also appealed to Minister Vuksanovic, and that is, for example, on February 2, 2005, we have asked the parliamentary question to Minister Velimir Ilic and we have not received the answer to that question today and we will probably never get it. We asked five questions on 2 February 2005 Minister Ilic and we didn't get answers today. It can't be that Minister Ilic's having a hard time answering questions. They're not God-awful questions. We have asked questions about a certain loss of 9.5 billion, which the ministry has made, that certain companies have been brought into an unhappiness, that the Ministry has been working local roads beyond its jurisdiction. You know that local roads are within the jurisdiction of local self-government, and the Ministry did so in those environments where they had candidates from New Serbia; there the Ministry of Capital Investments used up taxpayers' money with their powers and worked local roads. We asked Minister Ilic to explain it to us. Of course, since Minister Ilic had a pre-election promise of some legalisation with costs of five euros per square cent, we asked him to explain it, too, etc. These questions, I believe, are not pleasant to Minister Ilic, but it is impossible that he could not have answered. He could've put someone in charge and responded the way politicians can respond and it was all round and round and round. This is simply about the minister's relationship to the National Assembly, the minister's relationship to his obligations stemming in the extreme case from the Constitution, including some democratic practice, procedures, traditions, etc. Then what's worth the law to us, what's the Rules of Procedure worth to us, when we have a minister you can't touch, you can't tell him anything, he's able to insult you all in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you're not allowed to do anything, because he's blackmailing your government with a number of MPs. It's just that the question is how ready you are to go in to tolerate everything and everything just to survive in power. And then are you even better than those who do things like that or in some way you give them support to keep doing things like that? So, when you go out and talk about these things here, about the public, about the efficiency of the state administration, about a politicism, you understand, I hope, why we don't trust you, and why we can't vote for this -- because we think this will provide you with an instrument to continue the politicalization of the state the way you started the day after Vojislav Kostunica brought out the exposés of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have to go back to that question, because I find this question very important, which is a way that speaks a lot about the character of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, perhaps also about him personally as a politician, the way Nebojsa Covic was resolved. If you want to resolve any official who is at the head, in this case the Coordination Body or the head of any body or organisation that performs tasks that are extremely important to this country, you cannot do it overnight by raising one of its MPs' hands for some law or not raising his hand for some law. I agree with you, the SDP never knew how to stick to coalition agreements and they always liked to pick up points on the side. At the very least, the DSS did it in the period when the DS was in power and it's a bad manner that exists on our political scene, I'd say a political hypocrisy. When someone in power is supposed to be in power, and when there is an opposition, it should be an opposition, but it cannot use the good side of the government and be an opposition. It just doesn't work. You simply changed Mr. Nebojsa Covic overnight for purely political reasons and say you are ready to advocate some a politicism. Only political reasons concerning respect for the coalition agreement in one segment. The deadline was 24 hours, without having carried out an analysis of the consequences its replacement may have for the interests of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija or Serbia's interests. I'm not saying it'll cause good or bad consequences at all. I don't think his shift is going to cause anything, maybe it will. I'm just asking a question about how you allowed yourself to just take that shift so cruelly without thinking about whether or not you'd have consequences for the country. It's just a question for you, nothing further than that. He can't have a party relationship to that extent to determine the country's relations. So, the relationship between the two parties, between the two men, between Vojislav Kostunica and Neboja Covic, cannot be taken to the extent that political moves are not analysed. It's not just the Prime Minister because he has a majority. He must consider, have responsibility for what he does, and understand that every move he makes, one way or another, every message he makes can have long-term good or bad consequences. Right away, I think Nebojsa Covic should be removed because he joined all of you when you invited Serbs to boycott the elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Today, I think it is clear to everyone that it was one of the biggest mistakes, if not the biggest mistake, and perhaps the only mistake in Serbia's policy towards Kosovo and Metohija since 5 October. That mistake will be paid for a long time, and the question is whether they will ever be able to fully adjudicate the consequences of the mistake that we made at the time when you, led by the local party interests and the desire to reach as many points here, invited Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija not to go to these elections. I'd like you to explain, you're right that it's not a topic, but one day to explain what we got from the Serbs not going to the elections in Kosovo and Metohija, what Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija got, except that we only managed to push our fingers deeper around those who decide both fate and us here. As for the law on civil servants, I will no longer deal with these general topics, three types of civil servants are introduced, three ways of ranking, and I think these tenants, they are auxiliary technical staff, but I think that through, or I would like to hear what you think and whether through the very text of the law that their position of auxiliary technical staff may be a little too marked, as people who have in some way a second-rate position as employees by the state of Serbia. You say – the rights and duties of civil servants not governed by this or by a special law or by other regulation are subject to general labour regulations and a special collective contract for public authorities. It means that this matter will be surrounded by a labour law, a special law that I see should be passed by this law and by a collective contract. So basically, four laws will apply to this matter and I don't think that's good, even if it's subsidized by the Labour Law. I'm interested in what is a special law that will surround this system, so what is a special law that needs to be passed. I don't know why you've so strictly placed members of 25th and 26th to discuss additional work and the need for a civil servant to inform of additional work. I agree with you that there should be some order here, that there is this agreement of the manager when it comes to certain affairs, but I think you've set it up for members 25 and 26 too strictly. You say that the consent of the executive is not necessary, so you say scientific research, etc., but you have a lot of people in the ministries and here in the National Assembly who publish their works in professional journals, they are members of some boards of directors, experts in legal character relating to our science, so I ask you what will happen to them, whether they have to inform the Secretary of the Assembly and ask permission for it or not. In principle, the Secretary of the Assembly and anyone who is normal would give permission to be trained in this way and on boards of such magazines, etc. I don't think so, because it could be the source of some abuse today or tomorrow, for a year or two or for three. Why would someone ask for the consent of their manager? So these are some questions I'd like you to answer. Finally, I will conclude, therefore, because of the general policy that you have led in the previous year and a few days, because of one acute relationship with the DS, as an opposition party, because of the persecution, I must say, and because you have shown to each other that you are exclusively taking political interests and that you can be very cruel in dealings with each other, and because I think that all segments of society have been deeply divided into four ruling parties, i.e. five (because we are constantly leaving out the SPO, which actively participates in this government), means, on five parties, you have divided the whole society, because of all this we cannot vote for the law, which is just the depolitisation of the state administration, because the bill promoter has politicalized everything and what we cannot politize. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18856	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. We go in order, the first word has a proposing representative, Zoran Balinovac, then MP Dusan Prorokovic, and then MP Rajko Baralic, unless you, Mr Baralic, reported to the Business as a replica. So, first Rajko Baralic, then Dusan Prophetic. Mr Balinovac, as a representative of the promoter, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18857	Thank you, Mr. President. My esteemed predecessor made several claims and asked a few questions. I'll try to challenge those claims that have been made, and I'll answer the questions. As for the so-called so-called. unilateral concepts of ministries, that is a question, if you agree, which we could leave for the end of the principle debate, given that there are broader implications, and it is not directly related to the Law on State Administration, more specifically to the bill of law. You said you couldn't trust me on the word that the depoliticalization of the state administration would be carried out, nor can you trust this government on the word that it's frame, owned and capable of doing so. Mr. Markovic, we don't invite you to take our word for it. It's not the purpose of this law, it's not the whole conversation about depolitizing the state administration to have someone come before this pay phone and say, "We're saying we're going to depolitize the state administration." The purpose of all of this, of depoliticisation, is to set clear and precise legal rules that will be such that, independently of the will of politicians, they will carry out depolitisation, independent of the word Zoran Balinovac, independent of any word, independent of any opinion on whether it is necessary or not. So, in this law these bases are laid. If the law is passed, it will also oblige those who like it and those who do not like it and those who are proponents of depoliticalism and those who are not. So, the essence of the law, the rule of law, that I tried to explain yesterday, is that no one can be trusted by word. Let's just leave it to it. It's the law that imposes obligations. It's the law that says what to do and what not to do. It's the law that orders. The word thing has nothing to do with it. On the other hand, I have to say, DS representatives have not convinced me, or have not quoted those weaknesses in the law that prevents depolitisation. So, the only weaknesses they have shown are not really about the law, but about the analysis of the current government, which is, of course, valuable. The opposition also seems to be critical of the current government. I'm talking about the fact that I expected a review of laws and legal solutions, that someone simply tells me – this legal solution prevents depolitisation, here, Mr. Balinovac, we don't trust you because that article reads to you anyway. I didn't hear that. So we're talking about different topics. Faith or infidelity is one question, and the legal order is clear, and it must be implemented if the law is passed. You asked me questions regarding special laws. In the field of labour, there is a general law, and that is the Labour Act. In Article 2(2), that general law authorised the National Assembly to make matters, which it deems special to state authorities, offices differently, by its special law. So this law on civil servants is already proving to be a special law in relation to the Labour Act. In other words, in everything that this law does not explicitly resolve, the Labour Act will apply as a general law. It's the ratio of general and special law. On the other hand, we have certain categories of employees who cannot fit into the general official regime. You must admit that an officer at the Ministry of Finance or an official at the Ministry of Faith cannot have the same position and cannot have fully, therefore, not in all details differently, the same position as an BIA official, a customs officer or some officer with special police powers. We allow certain questions in these situations, but only individual questions relating to the status of these officials are different offices of this law. So there's an intervening recognition of reality that they're all not the same. It is not a modernity and speciality of Serbian law either, but it is all Western countries that have one single official law, and then for those special categories of officials, such as in unitary states, the chief of staff is an official. In these unitary states, where the military is included in the service system, special laws are always passed, etc. As for further work, I understood your noble intentions not to deny anyone the right to work further. But we also predicted one disciplinary charter, which prohibits anyone from violating the provisions on additional work. So, he can't deny even a clerk the right to additional work. In the event that the conditions for additional work exist legally, if the right is denied, the official shall be at the disposal of the appeal. Otherwise, the provisions on additional work have been adopted by one Convention of the Council of Europe, which has provided for the Code of Ethics of Civil Servants and recommended that countries, either enter them into their legislation or adopt them in the form of specific codes. Some provisions have been taken from the Code of the Council of Europe, just when it comes to conflict of interest, and some will bring high officials' advice, taking care of the Council of Europe. So, in this Code of Ethics, which was adopted by the Council of Europe, it is simply required to inform the alleged additional work of a civil servant and a system of approval simply so that, public interest, whose official is a representative, he does business that is of public interest, would not collude with his private interests which he can have in additional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18858	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18859	Thank you, Mr. President. A member of the Rules of Procedure who regulates that everyone is obliged to speak the truth behind the pay phone, last night and this morning, an esteemed colleague is talking about some pillar in the government holding the SPS. The SPS is, in itself, a pillar and without it little can happen in this country, but it is not a pillar of power. You don't have to say it that way around here. The SPS members are by one of the boards of directors and supervisors, performing a supervisory function over those whose minority support they provide. That's one thing. The second thing, please, 36,000 SPS members were cleared after October 5th, you arrested 1,712 people. Crisis headquarters lynched 94 people. Nebojsa Covic, who is responsible for disarming five Belgrade OUPs, has seized about 5,000 long automatic pipes, 1,000 of which have never been found. You have a report from the Security Committee. A murder of one of those rifles has been committed in New Belgrade these days. He's supposed to go into arrest, not be removed. It can't work that way, whatever democracy, revolution. Once the line is drawn and it is said – this one has done according to the law, and this one is not. Bozidar Djelic and Aleksandar Radovic, an officer of the French intelligence service – better known in Serbia as a faceless man and a candidate for some places in Serbia today, had morning briefings to be arrested, and only then to prove them guilty, all ministers, all assistants, all deputies. Dear gentlemen, the criteria must be the same for everyone. God forbid, it didn't happen again, it didn't come back, but whining over the fate of those who, by political will, became what they became, and today, on the basis of the same political will, it's not appropriate, like Mr. Vladan Begovic's inappropriate resignation, who held with the same-minded, with a gun on his neck by the former director of customs administration, as he became director. That didn't bother him. What kind of morality is he talking about today? Whatever the director of customs was before that, remember, he was removed by pointing a gun at his head and it was photographed by television. It's not normal. It's important that we just know what this is about. Whoever came into power, he will come out of power just as he entered it. That's what she needs to know. The best way is the election. There's no alternative to that process. No kidnapping, no burning, no revolution in any way being carried out is good. Those tracks are still deep. TV's on fire, Parliament's on fire, this is on fire, that's on fire. I'm asking anyone with basic honesty if we're going to arrest those people who never returned to the Federal Parliament over 250 art items. Here, half of them are in... (Athens) At Chuck's. (President: Time. ) The white salon of Prince Paul, of the rose tree, was not burned and was never found. Where is she, please? He couldn't put himself in the act. That we only know what it's all about and that we're not talking about things that just aren't right. Today, the SPS ministers are responding because they have abused their official position, because they have been paying off a bread picker for Kosovo in Uroševec, past the budget. Boza Djelic later changed it and renamed it a violation, so each of his ministers did the same thing, but he does not answer for it. It's important that we know what's going on, and it's important that we don't ever let that happen again. That's why it's important that we have the law, that we have a democratic state, that we have democratic authority, that we have an opposition that has a legitimate right to its opposition political struggle, but never again, with a rifle in hand, and in this way, a lynching and misrepresenting everything that was before, someone is in a position to exercise power. It is not a topic, I apologize to my colleagues, but do not honor the Socialist Party of Serbia for what is not the case, as please do not be lawyers of the Social Democratic Party, which today only has in Serbia in the National Employment Service in every city of employees of 10 to 50 people. What's this about? Let them go to the elections, let them say what their weight is, let's see how many MPs they can bring to parliament, and then let's say if they can or can't do it. If one more scam, every honor, they've cheated five times who they've been with so far, they've cheated on him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18860	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, Mr. Prophetic, in the meantime. The Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18861	I'd like to give you this statement by the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President. You are required to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. You haven't responded to a few undosed statements from my predecessor for this pay phone. First of all, you must have the same archaic. If you say the SPS members are arrested without a basis, you cannot call from this pay phone to arrest Nebojsa Covic. It's not our job. It's not our job. It's not our job to talk about who's supposed to be arrested, because we don't want to make that state. We're making a state where the judiciary, the prosecution, the judges, decide who gets arrested, who doesn't. This Nebojsa Covic did not become evil and bad yesterday when Kostunica replaced him. He was the whole time you were supporting him. And that is best when someone falls from a position that you do not live up to it, for someone will ask you, and what about now? When you go to the hunt, you go to kill the wolf, not that you go after they kill him, to rip his tail or to measure him how heavy and long he was. That's my attitude. I don't want you to run the state like that and just let me tell you, you said you weren't a pillar of power, and I'm telling you you're not even a pillar of opposition. In Serbia, the political scene is divided into power and opposition. Then whose pole are you? You're a pillar of power and don't talk about the best solutions to the election. Let's go to the election. What – from the pay phone is the best solution? The election, and you don't give the election?- I'm sorry. It's up to you if there's gonna be a choice, from you entering this room. When it's a day to vote on this law, if you don't enter the O.R., we have elections. It takes elections as soon as possible, except you won't. Now what? Now you're going to attack Davinic, too, probably, so when he replaces Kostunica again tomorrow, you're going to attack him too. That's not how you do it. Attack him when he's strong, when he's strong, when he's powerful, and not when he's being replaced by Vojislav Kostunica, so now to prove Vojislav Kostunica that you're ready and you're ready to step on a dead man. When did you replace Nebojsa Covic? To a comment from the O.R., which has not been heard. For voting 500 million each, under two three billion dinars to spend on the name of Kosovo and Metohija, in the budget, every time you voted. What were you giving him? Then why don't you rebel. There is no more reason to mention Nebojsa Covic here. He was yours, now he's not yours. What do we care? "We didn't eat onions, we didn't smell onions!" It's not a good role. Some have done it in this political history of Serbia, and some have done it before. If Nebojsa Covic is not good, let Vojislav Kostunica say. I don't want to hear it from you from the SPS. If the SDP is wrong, Vojislav Kostunica should say so. Why would the SPS say that when it's not a pillar of power? You say you have several members on board. Why don't you have the 48,000 you had on October 5th? You didn't fight for those 48,000 that were then replaced, but for a few of them now on boards. It's your function now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18862	The word is made by MP Dusan Prorokovic, who first reported for the replica, and then by MP Milan Markovic, who answered for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18863	If you don't see the MPs answer for a word, I don't know what to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18864	I'm not asking you, you tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18865	I've applied for a replica of the presentation of MP Baralic. The president. All right, let's see if there's any grounds. The word has a National MP Dusan Prorokovic, then Milan Markovic, then Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18866	I think the replica at the moment is slightly deplaced for the presentation of Vice President Markovic. The debate went the other way. But because of the public and the stenogram, I want to deny some of his allegations. The speech lasted 18 minutes. There were few sentences in which Vojislav Kostunica was not mentioned, and there were also few sentences in which the law was mentioned, and I think it is a bad manner to change. First, several ministers were mentioned, so here's an example of Velja Ilic and his vindictiveness is that he kept the deputy minister from his previous term, so the man who was a member of the DS. You have the Minister of Science, Mr. Aleksandr Popovic, who kept all the deputies and assistants, just from the previous call. We have Mr. Alexander Gracanc, it seems to me that the Director of the Action Fund or some institution at the Ministry of Economy, the man was a candidate for the SPS in the September 2000 elections, Aleksandar Vlahovic received him as an expert, a master of economic science who should be doing the job, and then Minister Bubalo kept him in the same position. I don't want to get into this man's political orientation if he's professional, qualified to do a certain job, let him do it, but no one can be removed from political functions because of their political determination from the state administration. Yeah, but the government doesn't, and this law is just trying to regulate it. Our state administration is burdened by a large bureaucratic procedure, a large bureaucratic burden, as well as all state administrations in the Member States of the former Yugoslavia – some have successfully solved it, some countries such as ours have failed to cope. Mr Markovicu, in a previous meeting of over 180 DOS MPs, only one insisted on passing one of these laws and, in general, on the treatment of the issue of state administration, which was professor. Stevan Lilich. No one thought to raise one of these questions. We even had MPs who spoke, we didn't come to power to now pass a law depoliticalizing the state administration, and we have to hire our own. This is the real reform work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. A regulatory body will be formed to be called the High Official Council. I think that advice should work as well as other advice that has been established in the meantime. Of course, I don't have the illusion that everything will be and function as it does in the UK. There will be attempts to abuse it, but also the high official council and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with its committees must control the process. If you want to compare what happened in this area in the previous and current government, let's not compare Zoran Zivkovic and Vojislav Kostunica, it is still incomparable. I think it's also demeaning. Let's compare what the Provincial Government has done in this respect, in which you are in power and the Republic Government, in which we are in power: to see what criteria people choose, who are secretaries in the Regional Government, that is, deputies and ministerial assistants, how all this works and how control mechanisms have been built. Then we'll see clearly what is whose political agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18867	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milan Markovic, a replica of the exhibition because it is directly mentioned in Mr Baralic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18868	I have the right to a replica for both Mr Baralic and the Ministry's representative, so this is in principle not fair, because when someone comes out on the line, and before that several of them have talked about him, he has no opportunity to answer to all of them, so we will try as quickly as possible. Your answer is what it was, and I have no intention of doing business with you on these issues. I'm glad you told me about these laws and that you made that part clear to me. Yesterday I tried to tell you, our discussion is political, because we think that this law has direct political consequences that are being looked at in that officials will be appointed for a five-year term, which will be DSS officers and in this way you want to extend your authority even after the elections, which we find incorrect. That's our position, and that's why our discussion is in that direction. We based the whole discussion on what the DSS did in the past three years and in the relations between the parties and the ruling coalition, which is obviously a basic feature of belonging to a particular party. So, they're deeply politicized and those questions that, by their nature, shouldn't be politicized in the way this government does, so I don't think there's any reason for me to do anything special with you. I fenced myself, I said that the SPS doesn't have power from the top down, but I wanted to say what I am, Ivica Dacic, the head of the parliamentary club and the chairman of the board of directors, says that there is nothing that can be done without you in Serbia. Those are the words of Ivica Dacic, I trust Ivica Dacic, and I know that there is nothing that can be done in Serbia without the SPS and that is the truth. As far as other aspects are concerned, senior counterpart Tomislav Nikolic said, I think he said it well and there are some questions, I just think that something that doesn't look like you and you wouldn't say anyway. I want to say something about this lawyer. Far from it are the lawyers of the SDP. I told Mr Meji Omerovic why he did not say this 10 days earlier, because everything he said was also about the Democratic Party and the persecution of the Democratic Party. I said I didn't think Nebojsa Covic should have succumbed to the influence of the DSS and accepted that policy for Kosovo and Metohija. It is a court of law, and Mr. Prophetkovic certainly thinks differently, we have a different view on the matter. At the very least, time will show whether Serbia should have done this or that. My opinion is that Nebojsa Covic was to be removed, but not because he and Kostunica had a fight, so he should be removed overnight. If it was to be replaced, it should have been thought of what the consequences of it were, to make a certain analysis, to carry out an adequate takeover of duty, not to get confused, because the whole world is watching us get all messed up. We're looking at the issue of Covic. What Peterson and the others think – they're looking at us inconclusive. We're not getting in the way, the country's getting embarrassed because you're from the DSS in power. We're getting in the way about Davinic. You mentioned Alexander Radovic, you said he was a spy. I don't know if he's someone's spy. That's the man you said was an officer of some foreign intelligence service, and your coalition now wanted to put him in the Department of Defense to control all finances. How do you honor us here, Mr. Baralich? You are publicly accounting in your coalition through newspapers with the defence minister. What country is that? Where there's that in the world. You made a comedy out of the state. In that sense, we can compare the government of the democratic party and Vojislav Kostunica. Unserious is the power you have, and you take her seriously. That's my opinion, and I'm pretty sure that's how it is, and that's all because of what you allowed, when you made a coalition agreement, that you allowed as the biggest party, that the state would be divided into four parties. It's your fault and you weren't ready and able to take over that power. That's your problem, which was also the problem of some of us, which, at the time they came to power, they weren't ready to carry it. That's what I resent and that's why I think it's time to discuss the election. I think the government from 2000 to 2003 was far better than this one now. Don't mention the President of the Republic, I think the President of the Republic is at this point the only bright point of Serbia's political scene and the only one who adequately protects Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18869	Please bring the discussion to an end and do not diminish the importance of the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic under the Constitution represents the unity of power and must in no way be said to be just a point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18870	One of the ways you have destroyed the institutions is that you have given Mr. Markovic, a funny and very kind man, to chair the assembly. The National Assembly is a serious place and it is not the place to make jokes, sketches, and to laugh at something that is not funny. Mr. Prophetic mentioned a minute, and I explained why the contents of my speech were like that. You know, for these years and a few days, that my speech has always been focused on the legal proposal itself. This is a deep political issue, and I had to make a political speech, that is, to launch that political dimension. As for the regulatory body, I said, I don't know how anymore, when we compromised this High Council of Justice, when those ideas were compromised and about some independent bodies, I have to say again, the grotesque is compromised during your authority, and the High Council of Justice and the Securities Commission. I don't know, in principle how to proceed, especially how you who were the bearers of this compromise of independent bodies, regulatory bodies in Serbia. I'm sorry about this time-out, but there's something we need to change about the Rules of Procedure. One man comes out, he replicates three or four, then he doesn't have a chance to cover it all. I thank you for your attention, and once again, I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18871	It's all right, Mr. Markovic, I've allowed 6.30 minutes. I apologize if you have misunderstood my intervention, but allow me, right before your presentation, I was warned by the president of a parliamentary group that I would have to stick to the strict Rules of Procedure and I am trying to do so. Of course, I have no intention of reacting either when someone overly boasts, or when it is excessively braided, but only by those categories that exist in the Rules of Procedure, and they say that the rights of MPs, not extraparliamentary parties, must not be offended by any MP and all bodies elected by the National Assembly. I acted accordingly. Here you go, Mr. Baralic. We have to work on the Rules of Procedure. I asked whose exposure the replicas refer to. Since Mr Baralic made it clear that he was reporting for Mr Nikolic's exposure, I asked you, Mr Omerovic, whether he was a businessman or a replica, you told me that he was a replica and I officially informed you. I'll certainly try to give you my word, although I don't see the basis, because neither of you are mentioned personally, nor is any of the MP groups you belong to mentioned. That's why I decided, I'm going to give you a word based on what you misread today and yesterday, but then allow me, we're going in that order as I said, Mr. Baralic, so you. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18872	I don't measure a dead wolf's tail. Everything I said here was published by a new Sad Diaries 20 days ago. That's one. Two, there's law in this country. When an unauthorized citizen of Serbia owns weapons, which are otherwise prescribed to be held (gun, hunting rifle, etc.).Five years in prison. When a citizen has a weapon for which no permission can be given except for officials, soldiers, police officers and others, then there is another punishment, which is approximately three to four years in prison. So, I was just talking about when someone directly organizes, participates in disarming the only legitimate armed force that one state has at this level. And the police are the force, and after that thousands of long pipes never return to the police, and when these long pipes are killings in Belgrade and Serbia, and the numbers are established, the police investigation says, and proceedings are launched (these days one is being conducted for the murder of New Belgrade), then someone who has in any way blamed it, certainly deserves to be the subject of the prosecution's interest, which is the only legitimate law enforcement body. That's where I agree with the predecessor. So, I didn't think the National Assembly was doing it, God forbid. I've never had that point of view, nor will I. That was my story, and behind that story, I'll always stop. One who disarms in an illegal and illegal manner the police of one country and then has implications like there are, which I'm talking about here, of course, that's what every conviction deserves and that everyone does their job. So that was my theme here. When we enter or leave the O.R., of course, it depends on the political assessment of our party and our parliamentary group. When I want to go to class, I'm going to enroll, I can always pay the teacher, I have a big salary now, and I don't have any problem with that. I'd be happy to do that every time I think I'm missing knowledge from any area, but thank you for the good advice and for the good services that everyone here is offering me very much respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18873	The word is by MP Meho Omerovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18874	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Here, for 40 minutes, SDP and its president, Dr Nebojsa Covic, have been mentioned from this booth. It is obvious that those who mention it and who take the SDP from this pay phone in their mouths are bothered by what we have done over the past few months, and in particular are bothered by our association with representatives of the union, and it seems that the most disturbing thing is for Mr Rajko Baralic, who put himself here, neither guilty nor in debt, besides DSS MPs and representatives of the government, in the post of spokesman Vojislav Kostunica. So Rajko Baralic, and apparently the SPS MPs, too, are bothered by the closeness of the SDP with union representatives. Apparently, the main concern is the respect of our agreements with the trade unions, when it comes to restructuring and privatization of public enterprises. It was a few days ago when it came to NIS, and believe me, it will be when it comes to the adoption of pension and disability insurance laws. The SDP cannot and will not allow the system to be destroyed in one way, the most valuable and the greatest value of our society. First of all, I mean the energy system and something that employs several hundred thousand workers. I know that is, in fact, the basic and essential reason why the word SDP and the president, Dr Nebojsa Covic, is in your mouth all the time. Mr Baralic, if you have information, if you have evidence of Mr Covic's criminal responsibility, please file a criminal report or do everything in your power to process Mr Covic's responsibility, but simply, it is not true. I pray that from this pay phone, not only do you tell lies, but it is even worse that you call on the lynch, and that the chairman has not warned you in any way. This pay phone doesn't serve to be called from it to a lynch, it doesn't serve to accuse people of something they didn't do. I think it's the manner and time behind us, in which you, your party and your president have made a great contribution. As for Mr Nebojka Covic and what he was working on as head of the Coordination Centre, it would have been good if we had discussed it, it would have been good if the committees had spoken about it, and if the government of the Republic of Serbia had discussed its responsibility, it would have been good if Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica had called him for a conversation, as he called for, let's say, these days, Mr Davinic. It would be all good, but it's not good, because it wasn't done the way it was supposed to be done, because it was done in the manner of some past times, because it was done, after all, while the man was on vacation, because it was classic retribution. Please don't put yourself in the position of spokesmans of those who make such a retaliatory act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18875	I understand that this was a replica, after all, because you did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure to which you are referring. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP has the right to be informed of everything, so that he can make a decision, so that I can inform Mr Baralic, that he who needs a teacher does not decide whether he will have a teacher, but that his parents will take him by the hand to the teacher, to teach him. If you're at that level, don't say you'll judge for yourself when you need a teacher. Who needs a teacher, he's not yet the authority to judge. If you are accusing of disarming police, then start with Vojislav Kostunica – the organised crime group was led by Kostunica and Djindjic on October 5th. Everything that happened back then, everything that was against the law, everything was done with their consent and amnesty on their part, because no process was ever conducted. Begovic did not break into Customs, but fell in Zabunovic, held him for one day until he "covered" his business, and only then was Begovic set up. This thing with Covic, you know my political opinion about Nebojsa Covic, he does not deserve to perform the functions he has been on, but to go into political fights, so let him deserve to have a post. This Nebojsa Covic thing looks like political persecution to me. Now you're accusing him of something he did five years ago, in conjunction with Kostunica. A book published by a journalist, which speaks of Covic coming out with a long weapon from his firm on the streets, was published four years ago. It demystified everyone's role in DOS, including Vojislav Kostunica. That is why I warn you, whenever you attack Covic here for October 5th, you also attack Kostunica. Whether it suits you or not, I don't know if it suits Kostunica or not, I don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18877	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18878	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I've consulted my mom and she says, "If you're looking for a teacher, don't make it Tom Nikolic, please."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18879	I think we can continue our work in order of the MPs. According to statements for the word, the word has been made by MP Petar Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18880	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the experiences of my predecessors, it is difficult to conclude which laws are and which are the laws on the agenda. I've been given the impression that there's, like, a law on the protection of small parties or a law on the protection of names, characters or works of certain people. On the agenda today, we have a joint discussion of the Bill on State Administration and the Bill on State Employees. I would not join the debates dealing with one insinuation, general political issues or demagogy, because the seriousness of these laws, their weight, the weight of expertise, the weight of the organisation of the state administration as a very important segment of the modern rule of law that this Serbia is seeking. I am pleased to talk about these laws, and it is also increased by the vast majority of previous speakers and the last days, or yesterday, and this afternoon, a little criticism of the law. There are no essentials, no essential criticisms of the law, except for those who either did not read the law or do not know the essence of the law. These are laws that still require a quality debate, a parliamentary debate, however, require some knowledge that is acquired at law school, not only that. This is the matter of the state administration, of these laws, and requires a narrow specialty in this area. This is where the terms are discussed, discussed institutes that are quite narrow and legally determined. It is therefore impossible to introduce political or populist terms or, as someone likes to say often about this speaker, simple interpretation. Free interpretations are not allowed in serious legal debates, in serious, clean legal laws. As I was saying, it's one area of state, or state administration, which is very important for the functioning of the modern state. We have in the previous two days by the authorised representative, Mr Balinovac, received all the explanations necessary and necessary to understand the law. They don't need much from a professional point of view, or they don't need to add anything. It is necessary to limit myself, and I will now be limited in my debate, though to those forms of notion that will understand the largest layer, i.e. most of Serbia's citizens correctly. This is not a revolutionary law in this sense that it will enable the development of the economy, that it will enable the achievement of those populist statements or goals that the current opposition is wandering, without its recognition of the criticism of the government, or government, trying to use, an old frame for a new picture, as I would say. So critics are similar to an egg, according to every law proposed by the government, and it just changes the name of the review law and makes about the same arguments from a populist and purely political point of view. Therefore, the lack of criticism on the one hand proves that the proposals of these laws are of quality, that no one has disputed this, that the proposal has been made in co-operation with the international community, the European community, in collaboration with all the professional people and institutions in the Serbian state, that there is a fruit of one serious work, an analysis of the parallel rights of several countries, especially European countries, and that the solution to our specificities, or specificity of the state of Serbia, is in this area. None of the previous speakers asked the point of passing new laws. It also states that the purpose of lawmaking is present, because, as we said, the previous law under which it is handled, which is the Law on State Administration, the Law on the Labour Relations of Workers in the Authorities of the State Administration was passed in 1991 and 1992, following the adoption of the 1990 Constitution. These proposals for laws that had one problem, which is the existence of an old constitution that has largely been a limiting factor for modern and modern legislative solutions under these draft laws, have successfully overcome this problem in these bill proposals, so that we have before us, that the draft law on state administration and the bill on civil servants that fully respect both our legal system and all modern solutions of modern European states. This law on state administration and civil servants is an upgrade. It brings new solutions that will make it possible for the state administration to function more successfully, and which, as we have seen in the explanation of the promoter, or the authorised representative, will allow in particular a course to be formed in the employment domain so that successful workers can progress, i.e. to get a particular motivation, i.e. employees of the state administration for more successful, or quality work. On that side, as I said, there were no important criticisms, and we will in particular, nor will the amendments addressed criticise the proposed solutions. This should lead to the adoption of these draft laws without significant interventions, except for some amendments, in particular. These laws will allow the creation in Serbia of a state administration as an important element of the state; to create a state administration that will be modern, democratic, professionalised, depolitical to the extent possible and that, according to the law, according to the social efforts and efforts of the authorities, it is a more permanent process. The criticisms at the expense of the government, Vojislav Kostunica, when considering these laws, are completely unreasonable and speak more of criticism, and the government's work tells the results. The results are evident and only malignant, malicious can challenge them by saying that they are insufficient, that alleged reformers, all those who are in the previous period, and particularly representatives of the previous government who have called for reform, in this sense and in this regard have done nothing. Reform isn't just a story, reform is a piece of work. The reform has been the work done over the past period by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and an integral part of those small steps towards a major goal of modern Serbia are proposals for the two laws on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18881	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. He's not here. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18882	Dear People's MPs, the SRS believes that the Bill on State Administration has many shortcomings and irregularities, so we believe that existing solutions in some segments are both better and more acceptable. The proposed solutions with all these shortcomings, I am convinced, will not improve, nor contribute to a better order of state administration. Under the current law, deputy ministers, ministry assistants had the status of officials, while the new solutions the assistant minister had no office, but only an ordinary civil servant to be appointed even by competition under the law on civil servants, which, of course, would not be good. On the occasions in which we live, it is not yet possible to, precisely, separate politically from administrative functions, and the assistant minister, as a man who works and manages certain areas within the ministry, must be a official and must be responsible for the minister and he in fact corresponds to the minister. The state administration should also serve in the interest of citizens, to become a service of citizens, and as it is proposed, be assured, it will not be because it overemphasises the role of state administration and, in particular, ministries. Following the example of European experiences, which are not suited to our opportunities, you introduce the State Secretary in the ministries, lift the post of deputy minister whose term of office lasts four years, and his fate depends on the fate of the government, or the minister. The Secretary of State, although a state official, can't be a National MP, which may be fine, but then how is it possible that a member of the Government can be an MP, and his deputy, now a secretary, can't. What kind of double standards are these? It is inappropriate to introduce special advisers who work for the minister, and are not part of the administrative apparatus, not to build a working relationship in the ministry, without being paid by the ministry under the contract of work, which will be used as much as possible in practice, because they will not be responsible for anything, because they are not part of the administrative apparatus, but will therefore be paid fat by the contract of work, mainly for nothing. The important thing is that they are political figures and loved ones of the regime. By law, you educate special secretaries, institutions, completely unwarranted and unnecessary, as this will lead to an increase in the administration and the increase of the directors of these special secretariats and institutions. The draft law significantly narrows administrative supervision by abolishing the supervision of labour law and supervision of the legality of acts, as provided for by the existing Law, and you only provide for inspection supervision as a form of administrative supervision. Some of the provisions of the law are, in my view, the most important and catastrophic, in direct contrast to the current Constitution, such as the one that is. Article 72. - where the Government is given the authority of the Constitutional Court. It's really incomprehensible and inadmissible. It is obvious that it is one bad law, much worse than the existing one, so Serbian radicals, as the most responsible political party, as the most professional people, have submitted a large number of amendments trying to fix such a bad bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18883	The word has a representative of the Ministry, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18884	Just a few words about my esteemed predecessor's exposure. The question has been raised as to how the Secretary of State can't be a MP, and a member of the government can. A member of the Government may be a national MP simply because the Constitution allows it, but this solution to be a member of the Government at the same time and the MP is not well from the point of view of the division of power, because it allows a personal union between the legislative and executive authorities. Hence, in order to reduce this personal union as much as possible, the more we have made it impossible for the Secretary of State, or what was previously called the Deputy Minister, cannot be a National MP. So here we have a clear and personal separation between the legislative and executive authorities. The State Administration Act does not educate any state authorities, so the observation that the number of state authorities will grow simply does not stand. This law only lays down criteria for the education of administrative authorities. As for the special advisers there was Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment, so we'll discuss it in the appropriate place. I would only point out in this place that there could be three of them in the ministry, and how many in each ministry will be determined by a special act, so it is expected that three special advisers could have a ministry of over five, six, or ten thousand employees, so on. Mammoth ministries such as the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, while remaining entitled to one special adviser, but then, when we discuss Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic's amendment. The supervision of the legality of the act shall not be abolished by this law. Under the applicable law, control of the legality of acts is intended as a form of administrative supervision. In essence, monitoring the legality of acts is a solution to the administrative procedure, whether it is resolved in the second degree, whether it is resolved by emergency legal means. So, I'm talking about the authority of the state administration to resolve the administrative procedure and that jurisdiction is from the field of administrative oversight where according to the modern legal theory, it was unfairly placed in the applicable law, transferred to another part of the law, so that the administration did not lose that jurisdiction. Modern theoretical attitudes have simply been adopted that this is not considered administrative oversight. At the end of article 72. There was Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic, who submitted the amendment, so we will discuss this article in 72nd. What can be decidently stated at this point is that the Government does not assume any authority of the Constitutional Court, and why the Government of that Article 72. The state administration law does not take over any authority from the Constitutional Court of Serbia, we will explain that when we talk about the amendment to Article 72, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18885	The word is from the People's MP Petar Hungarian. He's not here. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's worth the attention that the proposing representative, Mr Balinovac, is present all the time and is trying to respond to the remarks of the MPs. But I must make a joke, I suppose this law will be passed when the Prime Minister, since this is possible after the last amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, sends some porter from some ministry, regardless of all respect for Mr. Balinovac, is possible only then. Why do I say he'll be adopted then? Because this law on state administration was on the agenda of this National Assembly about three months ago and the debate in principle was completely over. Then, at the time, as a representative of the motionary Mr. Minister, Zoran Lonchar, he withdrew the law. We of the SRS thought, since we had, and at that time, a number of amendments submitted to this law, that the law was withdrawn for the reasons of its completion, i.e. the acceptance of suggestions which were addressed during the conduct of the debate in principle and, of course, in accordance with the amendments submitted by the SRS. All the time, he insists by those MPs who will vote in favour of this law, when it is voting day, as well as by Mr Balinovac, that these laws should lead to depoliticalisation, professionalisation and efficiency. Besides, part of it can be accepted, but when it comes to depoliticization, I'll talk about it later, sure as hell this bill doesn't lead to it. Namely, on these draft laws: The Law on State Administration and the Law on civil servants we have arguments of a natural and unnatural category, i.e. legal and illegal category. Political elements also enter the wrong path. One of the MPs said that this law does not have revolutionary power, that it will not help the development of the economy. Indeed, there is no revolutionary power. We in the SRS expect that this law can in one indirect way create a more favourable and better environment for the development of the economy. Because, you know, when companies are registered and a number of other activities, i.e. the needs that citizens achieve in the state administration, as a service of citizens, as you say, on this efficiency, expertise will depend on creating conditions for better economic growth, i.e. for economic development. Someone pointed out that there was a sudden dismissal of a number of workers during the change of government, so those who now support this government complained, and said they were not in it, the representatives of the previous regime complained. You know what happened after 2000, more specifically in 2001: the then Minister of Trade and Tourism, it seems to me to have not belonged to any political party, Slobodan Milosavljevic, but he was an expert, today the president of the Chamber of Commerce and Tourism, fired from the Ministry of Trade and Tourism over 100 workers, just because they were members of the SRS. I'm not sure the bill will give us that kind of situation. You've seen that the State Administration Act has 94 members, and the Civil Service Act 191. The point is, it seems, to introduce as many provisions as possible, especially this law on civil servants, so that those who want to read this law in the way Mr. Balinovac spoke yesterday (in connection with other laws and members putting them in context and connecting them with each other).... So it's said to be because of the possibility of better progress, to define it all. I think this law is insane. When it comes to the Law on State Administration, Article 3 paragraph 2 states: "The National Assembly oversees the work of the authorities of the state administration through supervision of the work of the government and members of the government." We have nothing against this provision. I'm sure we won't have it in practice. It is only one form, because none of the ministries so far, any minister, here is almost two years old how this parliament works, has not come here to say what they are doing and as far as certain things have arrived and whether any of the suggestions of the SRS MPs, who rightly pointed out how and in what way and, of course, by listening to those for whom they are here, and what has been done on that plan. None of it was. In particular, we can criticise, Mr. Balinovac said earlier that no new body in the state administration is being created, but it is talking about the conditions under which these bodies will be educated. And to go a little bit that all the authorities can appear in the state administration, you will see if this law leads to the possibility of allowing Serbian citizens to have the state administration as a service of citizens. Someone may have the intention, but surely with this number of perpetrators, which will enable this law, if it is a citizen service, will be a very expensive service for the citizens and the citizens of Serbia will not be able to bear it and pay it. Who can show up? In particular, I'm talking about the ministries. So, there is a minister, state secretaries in one ministry, and it is said that the minister can appoint one or more state secretaries without restrictions, which is the number, of course, and this remark that Mr Bozidar Koprivica, my colleague from the SRS, pointed out. Then the government representative explained that in the second part, we have a completely separate legislation from the executive authority, so to speak. Why don't we have that when it comes to the minister? The Lord answered – because it is provided for in the Constitution. Now we're going back to asking if this moment is the best time to pass these laws. We in the SRS consider it necessary and necessary to deal with problems in this area. If this is the moment to pass these laws, we can ask a question and realize it isn't. For what? In the light of this law, you realize that these laws were passed directly, or two years after the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and many institutes contained in both law and matter governed by these laws, they had their basis under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It was supposed to wait for that moment. Either you gave up or perhaps the Prime Minister gave up what was constantly the subject of the pre-election campaign talks in the parliamentary elections, that this activity, or the adoption of the constitution, would wait for a different time. We think it would be rational if the constitution was passed, then these laws. Then, besides the secretary of state, these are the current deputy ministers, and an unlimited number – one or more, then, the assistant minister, secretary of the ministry, special advisers of the minister's council, here is the number. Furthermore, in special organisations – Assistant Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director of Special Organization, etc. There are a large number of people here who will be involved in the so-called. The service of the citizens. We can't argue, I won't be so pessimistic as to say that he won't solve some of the citizens' problems, but surely we can harden from this place and be responsible that it will be a very expensive service for the citizens, or that it will cost the citizens of Serbia a lot. When it comes to the number of civil servants, I cannot accept the interpretation and the explanation that it has increased by eight thousand, and we have heard two versions of how many civil servants we now have, 28 and 32 thousand are mentioned; let it be an average between those two figures – 30,000, that's a large number. This is not all due to the disappearance of the federal state, but to party receptions, starting in October 2000, of course until today. You remember we've challenged a large number of agency formations here. Certainly, considering how many agencies were established, this affected the increase in the number of civil servants. That's why we have 28 or 32 grand today, anyway. The question of taking over federal officials, you know that many companies stop their business activity so they don't go from one to the next, and we had a situation here, instead of the government making sure that it was created in another way, which I always say, and what I always stand for, an environment for growth in economic production, for a better life, and that this is where they are employed, and we have employed them, or transferred them to other public administration bodies. It's not right and that practice needs to be interrupted. I suppose, and I can't avoid one finding that it wasn't deliberately done. Yesterday, a proposing official said this job should be done by 2007. I don't know the exact date, and that no one can guarantee at this moment that the government will then be. We can say that the government will be headed by the SRS during that period, but I am sure that you will not wait for that period, but will immediately start by setting up civil servants under this law, because it is your goal, that for the next election, you have the largest number of party members and those to whom you have obligations, those you created in 2003 by misleading them and bringing out some of your programs and attitudes, which is why you have received that number of votes, and you have not yet returned to this day – you have not paid them that invoice, so you will try to resolve it through this law on civil servants, in a way to elect civil servants for a period of five years. We will also look at those officers we find when we arrive at power, at the first expertise and desire of these people to serve as citizens, and party membership for the SRS government will not be the basis for the deployment of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18887	Here's a word for Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18888	What happens if it does, what happens if it does, I can't get into it. But my esteemed previous speaker said that the number of state officials is increasing by this law. That's not true. Under the current State Administration Act, all these officials, which this law also provides, remain, with their numbers being reduced, or they are depolitical. Just because of the public and citizens who can act scared that this law increases the number of employees and the like. that things are completely different and completely different. Nor does the number of leading posts increase, and on the other hand, this law provides for one newspaper that was apparently omitted, or discussed. It's so-called. Staff draft. Each state authority will draw up a draft personnel plan for itself, envisioning the number of civil servants it intends to receive in the following year, the number of trainees and the number of employees it wants to receive. The draft personnel plan will be prepared together with the draft budget law. Following the preparation of the personnel plan, a proposal for a human resources plan is being proposed, and then it is in line with the budget law. It shall be determined for each ministry, for each special organisation, how many officials or officials may receive in the current year. So, there's no more S.H.I.E.L.D. as far as ever, to be employed and past budget funds and beyond the possibility of citizens paying civil servants. It is determined by the personnel plan – this ministry will receive so many employees, this year, this ministry so much, this so much. Of course, there is a decisive role in this, and the staff plan must be in line with the budget, i.e. the means provided and most importantly, any admission of a civil servant through a planned state official is null and administrative inspection has the authority to establish a working relationship with such a civil servant. So, one way is to bring the number of civil servants in line with the financial resources, directly to the budget and those resources that the citizens allocate, not to be systematically received independently of the government's budget as it was done in previous years. That mechanism exists. There's also a sanction mechanism. Of course, the second, in particular, question is how should those who are admitted work effectively, well and not be on the burden of taxpayers, without actually providing aid to the state, but it is regulated by some other mechanisms in this law that I would not be talking about right now. I just wanted to point out this one novelty called the Staff Plan, which was not spoken of, which simply won't allow any employment of civil servants beyond the planned budget, and of course the budget is approved by the National Assembly. If the National Assembly approves that 20 officials can be admitted to the Ministry of Finance, every twenty first official, who is admitted, his reception will be void, he will have to quit his job. Just enough to clear up some things we haven't talked about so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18889	The word is given by MP Branislav Rankic and then by Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18890	Ladies and gentlemen, when we adopt these two laws, we will be one step closer to the European Union. The explanation of all the laws so far was that we would be one step closer. No one knows how many of these steps there are and none of Serbia's citizens notice that this is really happening. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that you were wrong to tell my colleague, Mr. Peric, that there will be no increase in the number of employees in the state administration. It will increase by at least nine, because the law provides for the establishment of a high-ranking council, which has 10 members, who will receive salaries from the budget. So, the number of people who will be employed by the state administration will certainly be increased, and you said it certainly won't. First, I'd like to start with a bill of state administration. I have some misunderstandings. Since the largest number of laws coming to us from the government is practically such that it is quite incomprehensible, in some members it offers some rights, and already in the next members of those rights, often the articles are complemented by the text that is unnecessary, in order to achieve the effect that these laws are very important and that they have important provisions in certain members. Here, you see, for example, the code – Principles, the functioning of the public administration authority (at the beginning of this law) and Article 8 and Article 9 here, Article 8, as it says: "The public administration's organisations are acting according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally and are obliged to provide equal legal protection in the exercise of rights, obligations and legal interests". What doesn't make sense to me? I don't understand what legal interest is, if we already have the right. The most legal interest is just to make rights come true. If you have stated here – the exercise of rights is quite enough, which legal interest can be beyond the fact that appropriate rights can be exercised. Furthermore, the title above the third chapter – The affairs of the state administration could be – the business and the authorities of the state administration, because there is little talk about jobs and more about bodies that are practically state administration. These are the things we're used to. We are often used to some titles above members being such that what the article says does not apply to the title, i.e. It's got nothing to do with him, but I'd just like to draw your attention to it. Maybe you'll try to make something right. What happens in most laws, often, not only in this law that you represent here in front of the government, is that it declares itself to someone's right to be offered, and often in the next or the same article or attitude, it minimizes or absolutely abolishes. See article 33, where it writes – The relationship between the ministry and the authorities in the composition, says: "The business of its work is done independently by the body in the composition". It's not going to be very independent. There is surveillance and everything alive, so that something would still be in line with what the forward says: "However, the minister directs the work of the organ in the composition and brings regulations from its work circle." And in what word is he here – the independence of the body in the composition, how does he do it on his own, if the minister brings regulations from his work and directs the work of the organ in the composition? Of course, there are many members like this, and if anyone had kept this discussion for much longer. I don't understand the preparation of general acts, that's the eighth head. Under two – mutual relations between the authorities of the state administration, article 66 says, "In preparation of the laws and other general acts of the ministry and special organisations, they obtain opinions from those ministries and special organisations in which the issue of regulation is being discussed." What departments obtain the opinions of other ministries, from whose work? It would make sense to me that the government is getting the opinion of those ministries from whose work is a matter being regulated, and let's say that the Ministry of Finance is obtaining opinions from the section to be dealt with, for example, by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and that the ministry is obtaining opinions that it is dealing with, say, the Ministry of Agriculture. It would be more logical if the government obtained those opinions. This law, like this one, has no criminal provisions. This is where the public works are foreseen in the authorities of the state administration. But there is no knowledge of what will happen to those who do not respect it, how they will be punished and in what way. However, in this second law on civil servants there are some disciplinary measures and disciplinary procedures, but they are so flawed and left to the will of the executive that a practical executive can push someone away because they will give him twice the grade does not satisfy it. So you didn't provide the public except for the declaration that you had in some criminal provisions what would happen to those who don't respect the public of work or, say, what would happen to those who do not work in the state administration to ensure that the party exercise its right? You didn't sanction it either, except for those disciplinary measures that the organ, the manager, can direct the lead, and he can even decide without the commission to set disciplinary measures. It's often 20% for easier violations than pay, and for serious violations 30%, but that's why a manager can easily leave someone without a job unless he wants to. In this law on State Administration, at least one chapter was to be devoted to agencies, although we practically have the Agency's Law, but one chapter of this law had to apply only to agencies, to regulate their position in relation to other positions of the Authority of State Administration. When it comes to civil servants' law, I said there would be at least nine employees' surpluses, and I already told you about how the manager can abuse the rights of workers in the state administration, i.e. the rights of civil servants who are employed, through evaluations, where they make an assessment, regardless of who prescribes the regulation on making an assessment and what happens if, after 90 days of re-evaluation, someone gets an assessment "not satisfactory". That's a direct assessment by a direct manager. It's not prescribed here who brings the so-called 90 days later. A re-evaluation, whether it's a commission or still a manager who's already evaluated it, and that way you can very elegantly leave certain people out of work. This right of appeal that someone who is not satisfied with the assessment of "not satisfying" does not exist but will only be re-evaluated after 90 days. So, a lot of things aren't right here either, and when I say something out of reason, you'll see that this law isn't something that's so good and that's so much more perfect and better than any law that existed before and that this area was being edited. I've told you about the disciplinary procedure before. When it comes to civil servants, look at Article 112, where it is said, "The executive can establish a three-member disciplinary commission to run and conduct a disciplinary procedure instead and decide on disciplinary responsibility". So the disciplinary procedure is run by a manager. He can only, if he wants, establish a three-member commission that will practically conduct the procedure for him. A three-member commission should provide for at least one place where the one against whom the disciplinary procedure is being conducted would propose one member of the three. Here, in my deep conviction, it should say "the manager established a commission" of such and such a composition, and not say "can be established". That's the way I was talking about, when you compare this earlier law, about how it's going to be very easy to leave certain people, who are not willing to do anything for you, without a job in the authorities of the state administration, and that no one is responsible. I don't see a big reason for setting up this high-ranking council, but we're used to it, almost no law goes by to establish any law, agency, etc. You probably know that this will have some particular purpose, and that's why I won't comment much on it. Look what you said about him in the law. What is one of the basic shortcomings of the 1992 law that has so far handled this problem? It is said that one of the basic shortcomings, inadequacies, is the process of admission to labour, which, although envisaged by a mandatory public ad, does not contain the rules of selection that would allow the selection of the best candidates. Just look at how the "good" candidates have come in to work as civil servants lately, and you'll all be clear who actually abused that there is perhaps no appropriate way of assessing and considering when the public competition of all those elements that would suggest someone for a certain function. It means that this is a purely political abuse, because as far as I know, in the last five years in the state administration, the highest number of government officials have been employed by state officials who are unprofessional, and who, on the basis of political grounds, have come to the right places and have been employed as civil servants. It is explained that ministerial assistants and others are appointed by the government and therefore is practically lost to expertise, because such people, it is assumed, will not be professional. However, this law too, Mr. Minister, Article 24 also says that the government also appoints deputy ministers and assistant ministers and directors of others. So the government appoints them for a five-year period. If you think some next government won't find a way under this law to resolve them five years ago, you're wrong. They'll find every government that's interested in it. As a lack of previous law, there is also a great weakness in the employee-calling system. You've predicted some new callings. However, this does not mean that those who receive new titles will be better quality. When they look at each other. On the 35th to the 36th, you will see that you too will receive calls based mainly on your work experience. It is predicted that for a senior advisor there must be at least a college and eight years of employment, and in the law you have already declared that there should be a condition for progressing exclusively professionalism and not a working internship, as it has been so far with civil servants, and why did you then foresee there for at least eight years of employment or for a counselor for at least five years of employment? Why didn't you say someone could be professional when they were three years old and do those jobs? So you criticized the existing law by wanting to show us that you brought something new, and you practically kept the same. It is about the institutional transformation of the Republic of Serbia. I don't see any institutions being abolished by this law, creating new names, some changing names, which is absolutely irrelevant, and the state apparatus is massive, inefficient, huge, citizens can no longer support it, and the entire state apparatus has to endure reforms, but not in this way and through this law, because it certainly won't happen. You have finally stated here that their careers as civil servants will be obtained exclusively by the criteria of expertise, and I have already told you, under Articles 35 and 36, that they will be obtained on the basis of a working internship. That's one of their terms, and if there's going to be any expertise, that's what we're going to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18891	Thank you. The People's MP Milajic has the word, and before that, the secretary called. Let me just have one message. Tomorrow at 14.00 p.m., in the presidential hall on the first floor, the constitutive session of the Committee on Local Self-Government. If some parliamentary groups have not yet proposed members, please propose today. So, tomorrow at 14.00 p.m., the Committee on Local Self-Government is being established, and both the chairman and vice-president of the Committee will be elected. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18892	Thank you, Mr. President. Just for a little while. First, it's about a high-ranking council, as a crown proof that there will be more officers, and that's for 9, which should be a big number than it is now. First, members of the High Official Council are not in a working relationship, do not have the position of officials. Therefore, that argument does not apply either. Many other things are rather based on an analysis based on perhaps a lack of understanding of certain provisions. For example, we say that the organ in the composition is independent, that is the rule, and in the next sentence we say – the exception, i.e. that the minister directs his work and lays down the rules of his jurisdiction. So in the provision of Article 1, we are talking about the task, and in the provision of Article 2, we are talking about an exception. This is the ratio of rules and exceptions, which is a typical, legal-logical and legislative method. As for the other objections concerning the civil servants law, I didn't understand enough, but I have one more thing to say. Indeed, the government will appoint ministerial assistants. It also reads in the draft law on civil servants, but will not set them up by obtaining pre-prepared proposals that may be from government-made political parties. No, it'll be different. Assistant ministers will be appointed after an internal or public competition. An internal or public competition runs a competition commission. In this internal or public competition, there is strictly prescribed knowledge, skills and abilities to be checked. On this basis, it is determined how many of them meet the criteria, from those candidates who can encourage or only from the state administration, when it is brought forward by an internal competition, or from the whole of our society, when it is passed on by a public competition. Furthermore, the competition commission determines how much who is in line with the criteria set out in advance. Therefore, the knowledge and skills that are being checked in the competition and the criteria on which each candidate's competitive impact is assessed, they are pre-prescripted. There is no possibility that someone in the competition commission should put in their own criteria and thus encourage or not encourage the choice of this candidate or that candidate. Another special thing: the competition commissions are changing. For example, you've raised the matter of assistant minister. The competition commission, which elects an assistant minister of justice, cannot be the same as the competition commission that chooses the assistant minister of religion. In each particular case, a competition commission shall be drawn up. This prevents competitive commissions from turning into corrupt professionalized bodies and from exerting influence over them that would abandon the principle of objectivity. Only when these competition commissions finish their jobs are they deliver the three candidates who have the best results and he has the right to choose between the three candidates – he will or will not. If he won't, he has to explain why none of them will propose to the government. If he will, he will propose to the government, the government will adopt or not. So, the assistant minister can't drag his legitimacy by setting up from anyone else to the government, but he can't have the assistant minister coming directly from the political party's personnel list, but only after the competition in which and how they check his abilities and his opportunities. If the SRS is in power on July 1st, 2007, then it will see, assess and, as the previous speaker said, quite reasonably take those who can help it most in power and the people with their knowledge. Therefore, it is true that the government is setting up, because there is no one. The government is asking, because the constitution so commands, but it is a very important issue after which the government is asking whether it is asking on the basis of political will, political volunteerism, or on the basis of a public competition, whose rules are clearly and fundamentally prescribed. One more thing, there is something that is unimaginable at the moment: against the government act, the government's decision to appoint an assistant minister, I am now talking about a new bill, every participant in the competition has the right to sue the court. Simply, the lawsuit in which he will say – the gentleman who was appointed as assistant did not meet these conditions, you did not conduct a correct election procedure, I am better than him. If the court proves it, he will undo the choice of this. These are all situations that are brand new, which lead to objectification of criteria, which lead to the rule of law and that prevent this political subjectivism and volunteerism and the conversion of people, bringing people who are not professional enough to work on this job. You were talking about the reason for the law. Yes, but you've read our criticism of the applicable law, based on which we're working on the foundations of the new law, and it's as if we're practically building a new law on that criticism. No, we gave a preliminary review of the current situation, said it was wrong, which you agreed with, and then we tried to offer roads to get out of that state, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18893	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dragoslav Milkovic be prepared. There are no people, of course there are people. People also follow in the session room and watch over TV. In order to avoid confusion, tomorrow's meeting is so that we can start receiving cases concerning local self-government, that all parties agree on the composition and the president. The formal constitution is when the Assembly selects members. It's just that we're going out to meet other people. I now inform you that there will be no longer working hours today, but once we have finished this united debate, after the break, at 15.00 hours we will move on to the next debate and we will stop when the time is up, at 1800 hours. Mr. Milajic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18894	Ladies and gentlemen, criticism of the draft laws concerning state administrations and civil servants has largely moved within the framework of the politicisation and depoliticisation of the state administration. The draft laws have tried to solve the problem of depoliticalizing the person who has been set up. Since the introduction of the multi-party system, since 1990, except for the first two governments, all Serbian governments have been multi-party, coalition, and they have in two ways resolved the issue of posted persons: either there were a system of unilateral ministries, meaning that coalition partners chose and appointed their own people within their ministries, or there was a control system where the ministries represented all coalition partners and controlled the work of these ministries. This bill tries to avoid one and another model and introduce a third so far unknown model on our political scene, where the depolitisation of all functions of a person in a position will be carried out, which no longer have the status of political officials, starts with the assistant ministers, directors, assistant directors and deputy directors, district chiefs, etc. Only remain as political functions Minister and State Secretary or, under the current law, Deputy Minister. In fact, the attempt of this bill is to narrow down the number of political officials, and that what has been a political function so far has been reduced to an official function, meaning, to persons who will be appointed by the government, but will not have a political function, but will have the position of officials and will be represented by the position of officials. Proposer representative Mr Balinovac once on his way out here for a pay phone said that most of the time there was a flat-rate assessment of whether the depolitisation of the state administration was successfully carried out through this bill or not; that none of the previous speakers had made any concrete evidence that it was a unsuccessful attempt or that it was not a good enough attempt, but that there was a flat-rate assessment that, however, the government is behind it – that the government is setting up all these officials who do not now have a political function, but are persons in positions and that it is now the difference between purely political officials, the minister and the secretary of state, on one hand and persons in positions that also chooses the government, but who do not have a political function, but are persons who are strictly out of the profession. They have nothing to do with politics or political parties. They've been doing their own profession all their lives, not members of any political organization, no parties, those minors and they don't go to the polls, they don't even care about politics, they're people doing their job?- I'm sorry. It's just that they're members of some political party. They've spent their entire working life working in cabinets, working in their profession, and they're absolutely not interested in politics, and people like that shouldn't be involved in politics at all?- I'm sorry. It's just a matter of work! What do these people want to do in politics and what do they have to do with political parties?- I'm sorry. It's idealizing things and it doesn't exist in real life. It cannot be an apolitical personality as assistant minister or director of the administration, within the framework of the ministry or special administration or deputy director or assistant director or director of the agency. It is simply impossible for a man to come to such a high position without being a member of a political party, not participating in political life, not to be exposed to any political option and not representing any political option, in the nearer or further past. We are also aware of this and of every assistant minister, secretary of the ministry, director of the administration within the Ministry or special organisation, deputies, assistant directors of the agency, directors of public enterprises, we know very well which political options they belong to and whose members they are, whose parties. There is absolutely no function in the state of Serbia that is not filled by any political option or political party. There is absolutely no official in Serbia who is not a member of a party or represents some political option, so that it is utopia to advocate that it is people who absolutely have nothing to do with politics; that those maltenes came from another planet, that they did not live in the country of Serbia, that they were not involved in politics and that they were not interested in politics at all, but that they only came to that position and that function because of their expertise. We had this "expert government" during the DOS, they were all experts to the experts, so now it's extended a little bit in this government, through the G17 plus party, or already what they are, they don't even know what they are. The G17 plus does not answer the question whether it is a party or a party or a movement. You don't know exactly what it is. An interesting group, by chance. Now I'm going to tell you, specifically, what the State Administration Act contains, because a government official has said that so far there have been flat-rate estimates; that there has been no concrete evidence that it has continued with the practice of politicisation and that everything is about politics, as it is, starting with the price of milk, the price of gasoline, and until who will be the assistant minister, everything is absolute politics. Whether someone's going to go to the election or not, that's politics. He who does not go to the elections and he gives his own political stance on what he thinks about the parties, about the state. So the story of depolitizing the state administration would look like a story when we should depolitize the Assembly – to pass a law on how MPs who do not belong to any political party should sit in the Assembly, who have nothing to do with politics, but only to be professional, so that they can pass professional laws, which will be in line with European standards. Why do we need MPs who belong to political parties and political organisations? We don't need them at all?- I'm sorry. So, to fill the Assembly with 250 experts who will represent the interests of the IMF, the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and they will only bring professional regulations that are in line with EU directives and the international community, and the parties are ultimately not in need of us?- I'm sorry. We don't need political attitudes at all. Now I'm going to tell you specifically where that story doesn't drink water. It's all about depolitizing the state administration. I would like to point out specifically to the members of the law who speak the opposite: Article 8 which speaks of the principles of the state administration has been declared that the authorities of the state administration act according to the rules of the profession - impartially and politically neutrally, and Article 12(1) states that the authorities of the state administration participate in the policy-making of the Government. There are only four members of the gap between these two completely conflicting positions: Article 8 says that the authorities of the administration act politically neutrally; Article 12, yes, the authorities of the state administration are involved in forming a government policy. Well, what's the truth with that? Either they're involved in creating a government policy or they're not involved! Article 12, 2nd, states -- administration bodies within the ministry are also taking part in forming a government policy through the ministry. Now it's, like, invention, some, like, big. In the chapter – State administration business, Article 20 regulates development affairs, and, among other things, says: "The public administrations encourage and direct development in the areas of their work, according to government policy." Government policy is constantly going through the entire legal text. It is impossible for the proposing not to take into account that all decisions made by the executive authority are related to politics. Under the Constitution, executive power – The government is both an executive and political authority and it must make sure that hierarchical lower bodies implement its policy. It's impossible for the government to run one policy, and the government's authority within the ministry to run another policy or its own or neutral policy, something that has nothing to do with politics. It's an impossible situation. Then it's not the government. In the chapter – Regulation of the Authority of State Administration, according to the bill only ministers and state secretaries are political officials. However, from the way the assistant minister is appointed (it is regulated by Article 25 of the Law), I am telling you all concrete things, not a flat-rate assessment and a general story, but I am telling you concrete things, the secretary of the ministry, (i.e. Article 26. Proposal for a Law), Director of the Authority of the Ministry (Article 31)) Assistant Director (Article 32) Director of a Special Organization (Article 36.) Deputy Director (Article 37.) Assistant Director (Article 38) and Head of Management (Article 41) – it is seen that they are proposed by the direct manager, and always, puts the government for five years. There is this commission of competition, an internal competition, a public competition, and a proposal of three candidates, and then the minister chooses from those three candidates, so he proposes to the government. It's all form to cloud the essence. Essentially, the minister will not propose any of those three candidates, if it is not a man from his political structure, his party and if he is not sure that he will not implement the policy of his political option. The abnormal situation would be if the minister suggested, the director of the tobacco administration, or I don't know which administrations, the man he doesn't even know what his political definitions are, what his political views are and what he's going to represent. With an explanation – he is very professional. What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. There are many people who are professional in this country, but they are obliged to implement a certain government policy. They are related to government policy, the government's authority cannot just stick to its profession, it must follow the government's policy, it must also participate in creating government policy, through a proposal through ministries, and on the other hand it must implement the government's policy. He cannot act autonomously, decide and lead the country's strategy and policy beyond the government. He's integrally tied to the government itself. In the end, I would say that the very text of the law makes it clear that people have been placed in the authorities of the state, in the administration and in the ministries, political officials, nothing has fundamentally changed. This election procedure is trying to suggest to us and to tell us that these are not political officials, but that they are persons in positions that, behold, the government is setting up for five years and mainly all professionals who have nothing to do with politics. This is simply an impossible situation, and this bill is merely an institutionalised policyisation of the state, not a depoliticalisation of it, so that the SRS cannot support this concept of state administration and will certainly vote against this bill in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18895	Mr. Balinovac, the speaker has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18896	Obviously, there was one way of thinking here, which is not the problem with making the most senseless provision the most interesting and the best, and not the least worth it. When it comes to cartoons, it comes to such absurd conclusions, and then everything can be banalized. I'll go, as my predecessor said, to specific things. Let's first try to explain what it is that today in this termology is called a political official. That's what I was talking about in the opening statement, but I guess that wasn't enough. Under a political official, I consider anyone who takes up political office in view of the application of political rather than professional criteria and whose responsibility is to the one who has placed him in office unprofessional. No, the responsibility for the failure to work, but the responsibility for policymaking. So it's a political official. Another feature of a political official is that he binds his mandate to the government's mandate. The government brought him in and with the government leaving he's leaving. So, simply put, the government's man. They are political officials and, under this law, ministers, state secretaries and they are the most involved in this political core of the ministry, which we have called policy-making. Political non-functioners, i.e. administrative officials, apolitical officials, are considered to be those who come, given the expertise that is being expressed, through competitions, competition commissions and appointments and departing for strictly certain legal reasons, whether the disciplinary responsibility is at stake, whether the assessment of the work is at stake, the reasons in the law are numbered. Today you'll be rid of the assistant minister, you don't have to give an explanation for why you solved him. It's political responsibility. He's no longer a member of my party, or he's had a fight with someone. So you don't have any criteria based on which you bring people, I'm talking about legal criteria, and on what grounds you take them out of position. This law establishes, but for you, it's not depolitical. If someone doesn't believe it's possible to conduct a depolitisation or if someone doesn't believe that he could carry it out, that's no reason not to believe that someone else can carry it out. So, to say that in Serbia, all politics, when you go to the market, you deal with politics, when you go to the bathroom, you deal with politics, go by such logic, and use that logic to come up with the law, is simply not one argument that can be seriously maintained. Next thing you know, in Article 8. The bill you quoted as conflicting with Article 12 states: "The authorities of the state administration are acting according to the rules of the profession", so the lawyer as a lawyer, chemist as a chemist, engineer as an engineer, "unbiasedly and politically neutrally and are obliged to give everyone equal legal protection in the exercise of law". This is about the state administration's relations with citizens. The government's authority is politically neutral towards the citizen. When a citizen comes to your counter, you can't ask him if he's a radical, whether he's a Democrats, whether he's DSS or what he is, you're completely apolitical. He's a citizen to you, one abstraction you have to go to for sure if he has his rights or has no rights. Who's talking about counters? Miss Verice, the state is making itself on the counter, believe me. First on the counter, because most of our citizens never come to the ministry, most of our citizens never enter the Assembly, most of our citizens don't go through courts, but all our citizens spend time in front of counters. And when a strong counter of it starts to make a state, from making a counter, because 99% of the citizens spend some time in front of the counter, and one percent enter the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18897	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. Please, Mrs. Radeta, please, and Mr. Balinovac, no throwing away and no talking to the MPs. There's a common form. So, speech, replica, that's possible, and this way we can't talk. Right on the line, MP Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18898	It's about that, the motionor's representative here mentioned whether anyone believes in this concept or not, a matter of belief or non-belief. I'll make one example of how much you believe yourself. As far as I know, you're a member of the DSS, and in front of the DSS, you take that position in the government that you're taking, and you've been to JUL. As far as you believe in this concept, the best evidence you have is what happened about the passage of the law on the abolition of the oil industry of Serbia. The same second SDP MPs refused to vote for the bill, Kostunica offered to resign, and offered them no resignations because of the intricacies and incompetence of those officials in the government and state authorities, he offered them for disobedience. The promoter is, above all, the DSS. It all happened seven days ago. On the one hand, you theoretically represent a politicism and expertise, and on the other hand, as soon as a practical problem arises, you take the sword and cut off your heads! You've done it all in three days. They did not resign, whoever failed to resign and did not resort to the government's policy, the government's session was immediately scheduled and they were all resolved, which means you theoretically set things up in one way, and you're practically acting in a completely different way. You're acting the way you are. You want to introduce yourself through this bill in some more beautiful light, but you can see through the specifics who actually thinks and behaves. Through this example, it was best to see how depolitical the administration was and how much it was from the SDP "expert to the experts" in the government and in the authorities of the administration. Kostunica replaced them for "instructivety".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18899	The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. I warn you all that we respect the facts and this home and that we do not present with false data what this home does. This home has neither been on the agenda nor can it have, the abolition of NIS. He can only have an expropriation of some law. We also have no reason to give that kind of incorrect information. The parties don't propose laws. It is proposed exclusively by MPs, the Government, the President.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for a word with the need to interfere this area with an area relating to the municipal administration within the framework of the functioning of local self-government, which is governed by another law – the Law on Local Self-Government. However, by focusing my attention on the relationship between the Ministry and the authorities of the State administration, in addition to other public authorities and municipalities, as a public authority holder, I will focus my attention on the relationship between the ministry and the authorities of the administration. That's a little bit of a word, Mr. Balinovac, either here. You are convinced by the interpretation of the bill that it is necessary to pass such a law, because all this has to do with the way to Europe, and Serbia is part of Europe back 800 years, when America has not even been discovered. All we can remember is the bloom of the medieval Nemak state, and America was discovered in 1492. Now they're bringing us into Europe. We're in that Europe 800 years ago. It seems to me that something else is most important. Ladies and gentlemen, you've passed many laws. Are you building a basis for their achievement in everyday life? The connection of citizens with the state is, however, via the municipality. There's his first contact with the state, which you, Mr. Balinovac, said - counter. There's the counters. The first citizen contact with the state is through the municipality. We can't go through ordered polls, through statistics to see the true state of the current Serbian government. I understand, ministers don't come to assembly sessions. Here, for the first time, the secretary of state's administration came and after the presentation of each Serbian radical, he reports that he explains. I understand the minister's busyness over jobs, terms, some new methods in the school's systematic examinations, due to the poor response of voluntary blood donors, because of 063, sugar, scholarships, Bosniak language and many other affairs! But, gentlemen ministers, you must accept that life is going on there, far away from you, in areas covered by local self-government, i.e. The municipality with the municipal self-government wrinkled with swastikas, scurvys, brother-in-laws of former giants and newly-roasted rich people, or, in modern terms, tycoon, that's your term. In this proposal of the State Administration Act, you called the public authorities. And so it may be good for language sweets, but it doesn't matter, it's going to change. It is important to function or to function the relationship between the authorities of the state administration referred to in Article 1(2) of this proposal of the law and the public authority holder, i.e. municipality. Because that public authority holder, if he's literally an asset and he's literally free to use that public authority, that is. If the authority of the state administration referred to in Article 1(2) does not have time for the holder of public authority, then the state will look like my Store, I am from the Municipality of Trgovište. (And there, in my Shop, the tone of life, everyday life, in its own time, a group that was pushed by money in the time of our bird broz, the president of the SPS, the president of the municipality and the director of the only social enterprise in the municipality, the only god in the municipality...) We knocked him out, so-so, with those functions, but we couldn't... that empire. In particular, the rule on which the social enterprise failed was: steal and do not mind me stealing, and in the other segments of the life of the winged woman was: everything that can, whenever possible, be added – because it is possible. Last year's election for committees and presidents of the municipality gave little ground for hope of change, but very little, because the rooted Mahers do not give power, only change parties and parties. ) In Article 8. The draft law on state administration is a provision, I quote: "The authorities of the state administration are acting according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally and are obliged to provide equal legal protection for everyone in the exercise of rights, obligations and legal interests." I don't think this member will ever arrive and be applied to my Store. The environment, from which I come, needs to be helped not to lose the territory. There, not a practice, but a rule that the municipal administration, library, the Red Cross, the local community, and everything that is financed from the budget, not to carry out certain tasks, but to hire their friends, relatives. On every 100 inhabitants – one clerk, because the municipality is financed from the donation of the Republic. Imagine, the Municipality of Trgovište has a global employment system, and is funded from the Republic's budget. The reason I have to say one more thing about this bill is the provision of Article 53. (5.) Article 2 "The public authorities themselves are responsible for the damage caused by natural and legal persons in the exercise of entrusted tasks of the state administration by their illegal or irregular work." At first glance, that's how it is. I'm going to give you an example that could be a cause for reflection and intent on this provision. The building inspector has "captured" a wild building. The decision is signed, as an official under the General Administrative Procedure Act, by the Secretary of the Assembly, by a graduate lawyer, but without a professional examination passed after 13-14 years of work in the administration. That fact is being called upon by the ministry as a second-degree body, through its unit in Leskovac, to conclude that the complaint has not been established, because in a small underdeveloped municipality, the secretary does not have to have a professional exam. Only the Supreme Court, within the framework of the administrative dispute, responded to this stupidity, or irresponsibility. Why am I pointing this out? Because no one responded, nor showed a sense of responsibility because of irregular and illegal work. Gentlemen, legislators, enter into this law and all other laws, but more specifically, instruments that will truly have responsibility for irresponsibility, responsibility for pranks, responsibility for corruption, affairs, obstacles on the way to Europe. Otherwise, you are free of imitation of English, American, Austrian, French and German legislation. Mr. Balinovac, review article 53. (5.) and see if it's a sustainable position 2. If the position 1 regulates the issue of security of funds for the performance of entrusted transactions, and the holders of the powers do not respond, they themselves bear responsibility. Examine Article 53. Five.). Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18901	Thank you, Mr. Milkovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law on state administration and the draft law on civil servants. As I have announced, we will move to a united debate on points 3, 4, 5, and 6 at 15.00 hours. The debate on the details of these two points – a draft law on state administration and a draft law on civil servants will be on Tuesday from 10.00 hours. Thank you. Pause until 15.00 hours. [[After break – 15,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we'll begin in a few minutes, only to have a minister, a representative of the mandated promoter in the O.R. So 15.10 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18904	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am tasked with presenting four, I would say, extremely important laws that regulate the area of the market and that have some mutually common denominators. It could be said that there are two common denominators of all these laws. They should introduce additional order in the functioning of the market, and all in order to achieve as much full competition as possible on the market, which, from the perspective of market efficiency, can only guarantee what economists call the best possible allocation of limited resources, higher standard of living and more favourable prices. Another common denominator of these laws is that they significantly extend the rights of consumers who fall within the set of the most significant rights, on which the European Union insists in all its laws, directives, conclusions and definitions. We've worked on these laws for a long time. They've been through a full public debate. More or less, the public, with more than 90% of the laws being assessed positively and, given the fact that some of these laws have already been included in Parliament's agenda, and then withdrawn from the procedure, it is very good that now these four laws in one bloc can be presented here in front of the parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Of course, I, first of all, will say something about the proposal for a law on the protection of competition and especially to point out that the importance of this law is great for several basic reasons. First of all, we in this area at the federal level have extremely outdated legislation, because some of the important issues, related to monopoly behaviour, the existing law does not sanction at all. Also, after the adoption of the 2003 Constitutional Charter, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission stopped working on a federal level, so that at this point, practically, there is virtually no institution, of course it is the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, but with very modest powers that can properly sanction monopoly behaviour. Thirdly, it should be pointed out in particular that those who are seriously engaged in monopoly law and economy, that our economy is an extremely monopolized economy and that besides public systems, communal systems at local self-government level, there are potentially and numerous other monopolies, or, in order for economists to say oligopolie, there are fewer producers in the branch that can, in a direct or indirect manner, negotiate prices and create various types of formal and informal contracts that limit the market. Also, the long history of anti-monopoly combat has been taking place since Sherman's law in the United States, since 1889, to ensure conditions as close as possible to the market conditions of the game and to prevent monopoly behaviour, and in economic textbooks even in the first year, and probably before that, it learns that if we have full competition then we have lower prices, a higher degree of well-being for society as a whole and broader exploitation of human rights. Therefore, the fight against monopoly is not only a question of respect for consumer rights, but also of increasing economic efficiency. For the last 40 years, as many as the EU exists, it has specifically developed this so-called. Anti-monopol legislation and particularly insists on applying these rules, aimed at reducing mono-political behaviour on the market. In view of all this and the fact that the anti-monopol law is one of those who entered the Government's Action Plan, which means that it is our obligation to adopt this law, before we even start talking about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that is, one additional obligation and one additional reason that we had in mind when we proposed this law. This law has incorporated into it the largest number of solutions that are characteristic of EU directives and definitions, but we also had the legal regulatory and practice of the United States, and of course other countries in the environment, which have passed the transition process, some of which, such as Hungary and the Czech Republic, are already full members of the EU, while some other countries, such as Croatia, have moved away in the process. Of course, I said that the existing anti-monopoly law contains a number of gaps that motivated us to propose this law. In short, this law sanctions three types of monopoly behavior. The first type of monopoly behaviour is agreements that prevent, restrict and disrupt complete competition. It says in one of these members exactly what that means. These are all possible agreements that can lead to the division of the market, to a monopoly position in the supply, sale or provision of certain products and services and, above all, monopoly price agreements. If prices are significantly above market level, it is a reliable sign that it is one of the forms of monopoly, which therefore reduces market efficiency and is particularly harmful to consumers. Therefore, the first block sanctioning the law is tied to contracts that can lead to monopoly behaviour on the market. The second block is related to what is called the dominant position of one economic operator on the market. The dominant position implies such a position as the manufacturer or service provider, which can control more than 40% of the market. Therefore, the existence of a dominant position on the market does not automatically mean that a single economic operator also achieves a monopoly. Monopoly only realizes if this dominant position, which he already has, is in any way trying to abuse through politics prices first and then through other aspects of abuse. The third type of sanctioning is concentration. Concentration, horizontal or vertical integration can occur when two or more companies are joined in a given branch and are able to control more than 50% of the markets afterwards. If someone has more than 40% market control in the event of a dominant position, he must prove that he is not acting monopolyally, and in the event of a concentration, he must ask for a concentration permit from the competition commission and must prove that he is not acting monopolyally. The biggest newspaper of the law, I would say almost revolutionary, is the introduction of an entirely independent institution, which is a competition protection commission or an anti-monopolis committee, which under this law really has great powers to take appropriate actions in the administrative procedure that will sanction, these three types of potentially monopoly behaviour. The Commission's authority is the commission's advice. The way the commission is elected is chosen by Parliament. The way the commission works and its powers guarantee full independence from the executive authority. We have installed only one member who should prevent the possible obstruction that existed, for example in the case of the Broadcasting Council, that only if within a certain period, which seems to me to be two months, the proposings do not exercise their rights to propose to the Assembly members of the Commission, only then, in which case the Government can propose members for the Competition Protection Commission, in order to prevent the constitution of the commission from taking place indefinitely and thus to prevent various monopoly groups and monopolist lobbys from forming this body. If everything is right and if we respect these deadlines, we hope that the Anti-Monopolitan Commission or Competition Protection Commission will be formed by the end of this year. When she's formed, I think she'll have her hands full for these reasons that I just mentioned. In the first year of work, the Commission will have funding from the budget, and will, mainly, be able to support itself, but yet another part of the member has been installed, which guarantees that he will have funds from the budget again if his own funds are not enough for his normal work and for his regular financing. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, the biggest newspaper and this should be emphasized here is the possibility that someone who has abused the monopoly position will be punished with one to 10% of the total income achieved in the previous calendar year. If someone theoretically, because of the abuse of a monopoly position, would be punished by 10% of total income, which means that the commission would have the authority to confiscate his entire annual profit, which is a very drastic penalty, but the practice is more than justified in the circumstances in which someone, precisely because of the pricing policy due to its monopoly position, can achieve profits that are measured and tens of millions of euros, thanks to this dominant position. In the previous Law resolution, there was the idea that in the first degree, the ministry would conduct misdemeanor disputes. However, after a reasoned remark from the EU, we have now gone with a solution in which appropriate disputes will be conducted in the first instance in front of the infringement authorities. I call it court, but it's not court, it's law enforcement. But frankly, I'm afraid at this point our law enforcement authorities are not qualified enough for this kind of offence. It's just one of the things we're going to meet in the application of one of these laws. At the end of the argument of this law, what do we want from the competition law? The establishment of a real and full market economy, the equality of market participants, the promotion of economic efficiency, the rule of law, the domination of business entrepreneurship and the creation of conditions for even faster economic growth and for the growth of the well-being of our economy. This is in the shortest basic view of the proposal for a competition law. I didn't define myself to go in detail by what any of the members are precisely regulating, but I think I've put out the most important elements of this law. As for the draft advertising law, the basic idea of this law is to put order in the field of advertising and to think of what Marko Miljanov, in his own time, said what humanity and heroism is – "Heroness is to protect itself from others, and humanity is to protect others from itself." The idea of advertising law is to protect consumers from terrorism and public advertising. Of course, you can put this "terror" under quotes, so you don't get it wrong. But when we start applying this law, I hope it doesn't happen again that, say, Ruby starts at 8:15 and then goes 25 minutes of advertising, so at 20.50, we keep watching the show. I think that show is over, but I think it's a good example. I think that, at least according to what we received in both the public debate and what we received on the site and in every other way, more than 90% of the opinion was extremely positive when it comes to this law. Also, the law contains a number of principles, but also a number of bans that should lead to possible abuses in public advertising, and there are. Advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic products is prohibited, with the exception of beer and wine. I'll talk about it later. Any kind of sponsorship other than perhaps professional gatherings is also prohibited by this law. What's the subject of law enforcement? Terms and conditions of advertising, rights and obligations of advertisers, rights and obligations of manufacturers of advertising messages, rights and obligations of advertisers, rights of recipients of basic messages. The objectives – comprehensive regulation of advertisers in order to overcome the observed practice of poor advertising, which also leads to chaos in public advertising, responsible advertising, greater consumer protection, particularly threatened consumers, since specific parts of the law, particularly restrict advertising that is linked to minors or other forms of discrimination of different categories of consumers. Important advertising principles: freedom of advertising, truthfulness, completeness and determination of advertising message, recognition of advertising message, prohibition of trust abuse, prohibition of discrimination (full, religious, racial, etc.).), ban on moral harm, ban on individual advertising by personal address, ban on harming competition, creating and maintaining a dominant position. The declaration is a newspaper, it is a written form that the advertiser must fill and there will be an obligation to keep the advertising message and declaration 30 days from the end of the last day when the corresponding message is broadcast. Some newspapers are tied up, I think it's Article 15. – members of 15-20 who predict that commercial stations cannot have more than 20% of their advertising programme, and public services more than 10%, with 15% advertising, and those 5% represent ads such as TV shows, etc. It's exactly limiting the time in which advertising can take place. Let's say, if a movie lasts longer than 45 minutes, then a break could only take 45 minutes of the broadcast program. Logs can only be advertised if the journal lasts longer than 30 minutes, etc. These are examples that I quote as those adopted in the proposal for this law and which, as far as possible, need to reduce this pressure on public advertising and introduce a certain order. Why, among other things, did we resort to these solutions? Because we have installed some of the many EU directives, which regulate the area, because they have in their experiences and practices come to know that it is in the interests of the consumer, and in the end, in the interest of the media. With that in mind, and there we have received very positive proposals and very positive opinions, we think it will benefit both the public and the consumers. The issues of open-air advertising are also regulated. First of all, it's posters, panois, etc. I especially stress what is forbidden. It's a long list of bans, which in this case probably has its full justification. Untrue advertising, comparing advertising to the damages of the other, i.e. to acquire material benefit, cheating advertising, advertising with a boycott call, advertising with unauthorized symbols, advertising with pornographic content, except in the pornographic press, displaying the use of force, highlighting the dominant position of a person of one sex versus the face of the other sex, exploiting the concerns and lack of knowledge for the preservation of health and the environment, the use of name, personal data, etc. without prior consent of the person to whom the personal good applies. Detailed conditions of product advertising and special conditions of drug advertising are also regulated. Advertising intoxicating drugs is forbidden. The advertising of tobacco and tobacco products is prohibited. Advertising weapons, other than sports and hunting weapons, is forbidden. Advertising of alcoholic beverages – in the first version of the law was allowed only for beer, mostly after 18.00 hours until the morning. However, after numerous interventions, we gave this right and wine, because we treat it in this bill as a food product, in a similar way to beer, with all the risks that it can bear, but given the difficult situation in which our wine industry is located and given our desire to encourage this area which is important for the development of tourism, we have allowed that wine can be advertised in this way. Advertising aimed at minors implies banning the abuse of inexperience, ignorance and gullibility of minors, protection of health, development and integrity of minors, protection of the authority of family and school. Advertising of political organisations outside the election campaign is prohibited, is regulated in the manner that it is regulated under the Law on Public Information and Law governing the choice of MPs. I've also said that sponsorship is mostly forbidden. I have to say, the public is doing the following thing: this may be the 5% of the law that was most criticised, because many tobacco and alcoholic producers thought it was good for our country to advertise sports clubs, cultural events and some events of national importance during this transitional period. It is probably partly true, but since it is increasingly a practice for European countries and developed countries of the world to completely abandon this kind of sponsorship, we have nevertheless identified ourselves as one of the stricter solutions followed by the practice of most European countries. As you have seen recently, practically, leading Formula One teams, and I must admit that I am a fan of Formula One, leaving tobacco companies or alcoholic producers as their sponsors, so this law still follows that practice. The supervision of the law is carried out by a market inspection in most parts of the law; it is carried out by the Ministry of Health in a work related to drug advertising; it is carried out by local self-government through municipal inspectors, in that part that is related to panoes, advertising in public places, etc. Of course, in the media-related work, the Radio-Difusing Council, which will have the highest authority to control this law. Of course, inspectors, whether it is administrative or infringement measures, but any other person can, through appropriate lawsuits through court, seek the protection of his rights if he considers that they are injured by the advertising process. I would like to point out that, in addition to the penalties for the commercial offence that is going on in certain cases between 100,000 and 500,000 dinars, depending on the severity of the infringement, there is a possibility that the court will appreciate that, in the case of a drastic violation of this law, certain advertisers or media who are advertising them and a temporary ban on the performance of the work in some cases between 6 and 12 months, and in some cases between 1 and 5 years. It's a very potentially rigorous measure I'm warning you about. This would explain the most important parts of the draft advertising law. The third in this bloc is the consumer protection bill. The law regulates the basic rights of consumers, the way these rights are exercised, the protection of consumer rights and the application of ethical principles. Since after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and this area, which has moved to a republican level, and the federal law, which is now in force, has a number of restrictions, we wanted, as the lawyers say, to codify, or collect all important consumer rights in one place, and to protect, in an appropriate way, the adoption of this law. Last year, in the EU, it was a year of consumer protection and years of affirmation of consumer rights, so, although at first sight, this law may not be as important as the many laws that have been discussed or adopted here, in that deep sense, it and how it extends consumer rights. For example, I will state the most basic of these rights that we seek to protect by this law: the safety of products and packagings; protection of minors, especially when it comes to the production or packaging of food for children, for minors, for infants and newborns; the sale of toys, i.e. a ban on certain plastic products having a toxic or harmful fact on children’s health; a complete ban on serving and selling tobacco products and alcoholic beverages to minors. The paper in the law is, in relation to the applicable Law, accurate and regular information on water and air quality, especially the labelling of genetically modified products. Special labelling of genetically modified products, the protection of consumers' economic interests has been defined through basic forms of consumer rights protection in economic terms, in particular as regards the price of products and services, packaging material, the obligation to issue an account, which has become already a practice in Serbia, the issuing of a guarantee list and other accompanying documents for technical goods, such as the declaration, the technical instruction, the relevant rules relating to the delivery of products, the distance purchases in which we will have yet to introduce order, because we perceive that this is one of the means in which tax avoidance is presently avoided, so that we will soon send appropriate inspections to verify it. Distance shopping, which is of course a catalog based on patterns and models, on testing, using economic electronic means and so on, issues related to consumer credits and consumer purchases to wars, product sales, sales of products with shortages, objections and advertising, but also a special group of services, which are services in tourism, services etc. Time-sharing, i.e. time-sharing of real estate, products, financial services, banking and so on, in which we also seek to protect consumer rights. One of the additional reasons why this law – which we have seen is that the institutional framework for consumer protection is weak and underdeveloped and therefore we propose two things here. First, the establishment of a special council with the Ministry, as an advisory body to be composed of representatives of consumer organisations, scientists and experts from this area and representatives of the Ministry, which should, of course, assist in the development of a national consumer protection programme and respond to all important issues which are affected by consumer rights. The national programme, to be adopted and adopted by the Government, contains long-term objectives and consumer protection measures, ways of achieving these objectives, ways of education and informing consumers, incentive measures in the area of consumption and a whole range of other issues. I must say, of course, that, especially when it comes to this law, it was in the light of the 1975 UN Declaration, which regulates about a dozen areas of consumer protection, that there is an EU agreement in 1975, but that in this law there are dozens of recommendations from the EU Directives that regulate the issue of consumer safety and protection and other issues among which are important issues such as the responsibility of the manufacturer in the case of incorrect goods, the protection of customers for services issues, then product safety, a whole series of other issues that I have already mentioned, that here I am now not getting into details about these things. Actually, let me mention that. There are about five areas in the area of consumer protection that are important for UN and EU documents. This is the right to protect health and safety, the right to protect the economic interests of consumers, the right to compensation for damages, the right to information and education and the right to represent the interests of consumers. When, among other things, it is about the interests of consumers, we have sought to help through this law to organise different consumer movements, which are now dozens in Serbia. According to some of our old records, there are 30 consumer organisations, and now I hear that the number has risen to 60 consumer organisations, for which there is, of course, a problem of representativeness. In the application of this law, we have foreseen the establishment of a common consumer organisation at Serbia level, which is even formed, but does not bring together all significant consumer organisations and we have also foreseen certain budgets to help these organisations. Some of these funds we also give to these organisations, and even one project, which we should work together with the European Agency for Reconstruction, which may be the most important in the application of this law, which is what is called consumer education or education, because the vast majority of consumers, not even now, and probably even when this law is passed, is not even aware of how many rights there are when buying products or when buying certain services. Therefore, this law is also important in the interests of consumers. The supervision of the application of the law is also carried out by competent ministries, primarily by the Ministry of Trade through appropriate inspection services. These are the most important elements of the Consumer Protection Act, and now let me get some water, and let me finish this fourth law, which is the Price Law. When it comes to the Price Law, it should be said that, right now, there are actually two laws that regulate this area. So, at least two laws. One law on the social price control system since 1989 is at federal level and the other is the Social Price Control Act, which has been amended several times since 1987. I should also say that we were in a dilemma whether we should pass such a law or not, because in most EU countries there is no such law. Given that we are in a transitional period, that the issue is the price, because of our history of two hyperinflation and so on, always sensitive and given that there are currently two laws that regulate this area, we have nevertheless defined ourselves as one law that is relatively short. It contains, some, 27 members and indeed contains only some of the most important issues related to this area. Thus, the law regulates the way and conditions of education of the prices of products and services, the monitoring of price developments, the business of state authorities in achieving macroeconomic policy in the area of prices. There is a definition of the ministry's jurisdiction, but in collaboration with other ministries, especially for two areas. It's price stability and it's the orderly supply of the market. The objectives that the law seeks to achieve are: supply, a stable market, with no higher turbulence of prices, coordination and harmonisation of the economic system, compliance with principles, standards and EU policy and so on. What's most important, and it practically says, if I'm not mistaken, but in the second member of this law, since the first member defines what the subject of the law is, the second person gives a price definition and then the third member says that the price formation is free. As much as this position is a declarative political nature, we felt it was important to enter the law, because it shows no doubt the liberalism of both these governments and legislators for, above all, the market and dominant market way of forming prices. However, there are several groups of products and services that are in agreement. These are products of strategic importance for the living standards of the population and these are: electricity, coal, oil, gas, postal and rail transport, telecommunications, medicines, national bread and basic municipal activities. This list is also accompanied by basic municipal activities, with them in the agreement regime so far, but by local self-government authorities, primarily the municipal assembly, which agreed on the decisions of the relevant municipal organisations. We have also pointed out in particular that it is forbidden to negotiate prices that divide the market and disrupt competition, which has monopoly elements. Then, it is strictly forbidden to practice double prices, which we too, as a competent ministry, sanctioned and it is now reduced to a minimum, and was a very common phenomenon, especially when it comes to hotels, accommodation facilities and so on. It still appears during the billing of the road, but the gradual correction leaves the price and the practices by 2007 should be eliminated. In a group of products that are under control, there is no extended list of products that are under control and we are still a country in an environment that may have the highest level of free price formation. We think that between 90 and 95% of all products are free to form prices, but we wanted to point out once again that there is one round of products that, however, have to ask for consent. Also, certain product groups related to the population standard are required to notify the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services. It's just a notification obligation for now. In certain types of products, the price change is agreed by our Ministry and the corresponding resolution ministry, for example, in the case of the Ministry of Energy oil, in the case of a railway, the Ministry of Capital Investments and then referred it to the Government for consent. One of the papers is in article 9. – that under certain circumstances the Government can prescribe so-called guaranteed prices. This applies particularly to agricultural protection prices, but it is the authority the government can and does not have to take advantage of. Also, it is prescribed that the government introduce temporary measures in the event of serious market disturbances, and these are indeed extremely restrictive and limited only to elemental disasters, abuse of a monopoly and dominant position, disturbances in the world market and other extraordinary circumstances, for example, do not give God war, etc. If the nearest within six months the government could impose temporary measures, perhaps even introduce some more comprehensive price control, but the likelihood of this measure being applied I think it's less than 1% at this point. Of course, a similar right has been given to local self-government. Transitional provisions give you who is in charge of overseeing this law. The laws under this come into force on the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger, and in the case of public advertising law, a transitional period of three months, such as when it comes to competition protection law, have provided for a budget of 50 million dinars, which will be necessary for the start of the Commission's work on the protection of competition, Commission advice and relevant professional services. I don't know if it could have been shorter, it sure could have been longer, but I was about to finish my opening presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18905	Do the committees want the word? Yeah. ) The word is attended by MP Rajko Baralic, chairman of the Committee on Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18906	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Minister, above all I owe an apology to several associations of consumers who had a desire and a request to participate in the work of the Trade and Tourism Committee when the laws on the agenda are being discussed today. There was a promise from us that they would join the meeting of the Committee, but for reasons known to the President of Parliament and Mr Minister, his associates and MPs, the Committee on Trade and Tourism in the National Assembly is one of the six committees that do not have a majority government and I find it very difficult to schedule committee sessions and invite guests, and I am not sure whether the Committee will have a quorum and I did not invite them to the Committee session. There was no such thing as a bad intention, and with that, I'm asking them to understand this. I also call on my colleagues from the opposition parties, who have the legitimate right to obstruct the Committee's work, to bear in mind that they are the majority in that Committee and that it would be correct for college reasons that, always, at least one of them be present so that the Committee has formal conditions to work. Of course, there is a constant request and a request from our Committee and my personal President Parliament that the Committee be composed according to the majority that exists in Parliament, because there is no point in having additional engagement, spending additional energy, because someone has a legitimate right to obstruct the work of the Committee, and he is aware that he has a majority in the beginning. That was important to say, and what I'm about to say about the law I'm going to report as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18907	Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a People's MP, Branka Bosnjak, with my apologies for not reading at first that the authorised representative is in front of G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18908	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on three laws is on the agenda: competition law, advertising law, consumer protection law and price law. Basically, all these laws, in fact, define a relationship, protection towards consumers and the attitude of this government towards citizens. That's why I fully support being united in discussing these four laws so related. As far as competition law is concerned, this law defines conditions for the development of Serbia's market economy, ensuring the protection of competition and equality of market participants. The existing federal law could not be applied due to the lack of an anti-monopol commission. This law therefore has the most important advantage, which has defined the Commission for the Protection of Competition. The Commission is independent of state authorities, businesses and all interested parties, and is impartial in decision-making and in order to protect consumers' interests. To be effective, the law provides for the law of penalties, fines, as well as temporary bans on performance. The task of the Anti-Monopolitan Commission is to prevent abuse of dominant position or collective dominant position, which would in fact define prices or limit production or impose terms of negotiation or business. The advertising law, which is second in line in today's debate, regulates the conditions and rights of advertisers, advertising rights and advertising rules, but what is most important protects the interests of the recipients of advertising messages. This law encourages a competition match, aids effective tax collection, but at the same time suppresses the gray economy. Advertising principles respect the freedom of advertising, truthfulness, prohibit discrimination of all kinds and prohibit moral harm. They also prohibit the abuse of trust, violation of competition rules, and, on the other hand, the affirmation of privacy, the rights of children, the authority of schools and families and healthy lives. Untrue labelling and identification of advertisers, advertising is forbidden by copying others. It is forbidden to disdain other persons, compare advertisers and allude to others. Advertising with pornographic content is forbidden, except, unfortunately, in the pornographic press. Advertising that shows one-half dominant over another or promotes discrimination of any kind is prohibited. If the advertising message contains a name, personal information, sound recording or someone's photo shall not be published without the consent of that person. Advertising and promotion of tobacco and tobacco products in the press, on television and on radio, on screens, boards, stickers, in magazines, on clothing items is prohibited. The distribution of free tobacco products is prohibited. No advertising and promotion of alcoholic beverages are allowed, except for beer and wine, which are currently considered as food products in small quantities. However, beer and wine cannot be advertised in specialised programmes for children, public transport and public transport, preschools, schools and health institutions. They must not be advertised in a space less than 100 meters from schools and these institutions, in cinemas and theatres in plays 20 hours ago, in parks and playgrounds. This law also prescribes a way of advertising, i.e. the permitted content of the media to which ads are represented and legality for each form of advertising. The duration of TV advertising cannot be more than 15 per cent or 20 per cent of the daily broadcast programme for commercial TV stations, and for public broadcasting services no more than 10 per cent or no more than six minutes per hour. If TV shows consist of special parts, with breaks such as half-time or time-outs in sports transmissions, advertising messages must be broadcast in these breaks. Films can only be interrupted by commercials every 45 minutes. Children's shows can contain ads that are broadcast for a minimum of 30 minutes. Of course, these ads can only be meant for children. Long-term transmissions, international sports events can be interrupted for a maximum of nine minutes per hour or a maximum of 10 per cent of the total broadcast programme. The open space advertising must ensure the safety of pedestrians, vehicles and other traffic participants. It must protect and respect cultural and historical monuments, such as the appearance of parts of the city or the city's continent. The establishment of advertising on public surfaces shall be approved by the competent authority of local self-government, and in accordance with the laws and regulations of the local government. The supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the competent ministry, the authorities of local self-government through their municipal services, the Ministry's inspection service and the inspection of local self-government. For offenders of this law, fines ranging from 100,000 to three million and protection measures for the ban on certain activities have been threatened. The Consumer Protection Act, in fact, defines the codification of all consumer rights in one place by harmonising standards with EU legislation and laws. Consumer rights is one of the fundamental human rights and is achieved with a high awareness of citizens. That is why the basic task should be consumer education, in order to consume this right. The ministry's competencies under this law are: the right to regulate this area, to implement type contracts, to propose ways to educate citizens, to co-operate with international institutions. The ministry educates consumers' advice, which represents a set of different organizations of similar character. The government is bringing a co-operation programme with consumer advice. At the local level, arbitration bodies are formed. The job of consumer protection is to check the safety of packaging, protection of minors, ban on selling tobacco and alcohol to minors, labelling and genetically modified products. Also, checking the obligation to issue an account, a guarantee list, checking the legality of the sale, distance shopping, such as catalysing and the like. Also, supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the Ministry and the inspection service of all levels. As for the intended penalties that have been threatened for offenders, they move in the diapazon from 100,000 to three million dinars and also, with the possibility of banning performance. The price law and even the problem of prices have so far been regulated by two laws: one federal from 1989 and a republican from 1987. Because of their obsolescence, this law is what we've all been looking forward to. This law regulates the way in which products and services are taught and followed. The ministry is responsible for monitoring prices, proposing a price stabilisation measure, participating in the development of price formation criteria, and because of the importance of price impact on citizens' standards, the government has an obligation to harmonize economic opportunities and bring laws into line with EU law. This law offers the following solutions – free education prices, except for those directly affecting the lowest layer, low standard of citizens, which are: electricity, coal, oil, PTT services, medicines, national bread and some municipal services. It stays, somewhere, about 90 to 95 percent of the products that are on the free regime. Control over the implementation of this law also carries out the ministry and appropriate inspection services, and fines from 100 to 200 000 dinars and confiscation benefits have been threatened for offenders in an illegal manner. I suggest that in the voting day, MPs support these laws. By reason of this government, these four laws are the alignment of our legislation with EU legislation. But, in my opinion, what's more important is that they regulate the domestic market according to the consumer measure, the citizen, the customer, the customer of services, the viewer of TV transmissions, all of which are why these laws are being passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18909	Thank you, Mrs. Bosnjak. The word has the mandated representative of the DSS parliamentary group, Mr Matic. Mr. Novakovic and Mrs. Lalic, according to Articles 103 and 104, I warn you, there is no need to attend the principle search, respect the collegiation and assistance provided, but there is no need for that. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18910	Mr. President, fellow MPs, it is my honor to defend the laws proposed by Mr. Bojan Dimitrijevic, because these are laws that have been missing our lives for a very long time. They will introduce some standards that are beyond necessary, so that, not only our consumers, our citizens know what rights they have when they buy some good or service for expensive money, but to prepare our economy to fit world and European flows. All of these standards that are prescribed through these four legislative projects, in fact, show the need to educate, not only the consumer or citizen, in order to achieve all of his rights, but also the need to educate our producers, because our only chance is to have production that will be compatible with the world and Europe, in order to be curent. On the other hand, a law that prevents monopolies from running the market as they will also enables Serbia to be a good polygon for future investors, who will not be burdened with previously acquired monopolies by some who, of course, have acquired it at times when there were no such laws. Since the speakers before me, starting with the minister, then a fellow Bosniak, said a lot of things that I would say, I want to say that each of us, every citizen faces in ordinary life with what these four laws regulate. From the very morning, when you go shopping for basic foods and newspapers, you will already have a few billboards that will advertise in different ways different products, you will also have a radio program that will inform you of the lube, even of the products that should be bought, and you will also touch your wallet when you look at the prices, and you will see even the declarations that may have shown some false characteristics of the items to be bought. In the end, you will ask the trader under what conditions you can market the goods, and he can deceive you and very often it happens that what is bought on the wars is burdened with very high interest rates, and behind this will be the question, why all this is happening, and you will most likely conclude – because in many activities in Serbia today you have a number of monopolies in the dairy sector, the bakery industry, without talking about public enterprises that can and how to charge, and even extrafit from Serbian citizens. So these laws regulate it and I think they're very positive. We are daily faced, in our ordinary lives, with the need to regulate these laws. Since we're missing the anti-monopolis law, I think it's about time we got the competition law. The last anti-monopol law was passed at a federal level in 1996. We are all witnessing that he has never properly applied himself, he has also created conditions for the creation of certain monopolies. And here's an opportunity for the Commission, through the body of the Commission, to think of the advice of the Competition Protection Commission, and through the expert bodies of the Commission to determine in which way, through legal solutions, of course, to prevent monopolies and to protect competition that is guaranteed by low or economic-market prices. It's the only way. The model proposed by the ministry in this legislative proposal, in which the advice of the Competition Protection Commission is formed, is good. That we have impartial people here, experts from different areas. The minister didn't mention it, but we have the possibility that members of the Competition Protection Board should suggest both the Bar Association and the Chamber of Commerce, the Government, the Union of Economists and the like. So, one diverse, but certainly expert team that has an obligation to be above the day-to-day policy and interests of market competitors. The other things were already said by the predecessors and I wouldn't repeat it. When we talk about the consumer protection law, we have already mentioned the need for each citizen to be properly educated in order to exercise his rights, but this law clearly defines the position of the trader, seller or manufacturer, in which way informs the buyer to exercise his own rights. I would point out one more thing, this law forces our manufacturer or our trader or exporter to fit the world's standards. It's one of the most important messages in this whole bill. The basic definitions are such that the law regulates that the most important thing is to protect the life, health and safety of consumers, and we already have several members who significantly regulate how safety and health are protected, and that is what the predecessors have talked about. On the other hand, we have the protection of the economic interests of consumers. These are the two most important chapters and anyone who deals with trade, production must read them in time and show them to the buyer the next day. What is important for these laws, since we have only two new bodies, is one body that is in the function of protecting competition, I mean a commission that will deal with this problem, and on the other hand we have consumer advice that will be educated at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, which will deal with this problem of consumer protection, here is the most important part of how to control all these provisions – how they are applied in life itself and how they are respected by traders and manufacturers. Our Ministry must once again look at its personnel resources in market inspections. I am very pleased that today the minister has come with his first associates and that they, I hope, hear in a clear way the messages of the MPs, but here, hear one message – it seems to me that there are plenty of old ones left in market inspections. They have an obligation to behave in accordance with the basic definitions of the government and no local cups can be above market inspectors and, simply, I ask the Ministers to listen to these messages and respect them. The DSS is pleased to support these four legislative projects. They seem to be quality. When it comes to advertising, I would add only one more area, which is also regulated in this proposal, which is the area of political propaganda. It is very positive and I commend it, that in this proposal we have the opportunity to rest a little from this propaganda policy that bombes us from all the media, in particular, with some media, which in the hands of some powerful people, who in an unfair way have acquired huge assets, come to the media, form political parties, and then, past election campaigns, advertise their own political message. I mean in particular the "Serb Movement" of Bogoljub Karic and what BK TV does. I hope that the advertising law, which prevents campaigns from going past election campaigns, is such a proposal for those who have not read this law, and for the public, to prevent BK TV from doing to us every day what it does to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18911	Thank you. The mandated representative of the DS parliamentary group, Mr Radosavljevic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18912	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, at the very beginning, I would like to point out on behalf of the DS Parliamentary Group that today we have a united debate on four very important laws. We will once again have the opportunity to listen to the praises of the ruling group, how this parliament works hyperactively, adopts a lot of laws, and we have a situation to solve such an important area in a way that it is post-poly adopted. That's not a good solution. Speaking of efficiency, I would like to remind you that the proposal for a law on the protection of competition and the bill on advertising has been withdrawn several times so far. It is just saying that, however, someone who plans the course of the session and the work of Parliament does not do it properly. And also to say that the legislative activity of the Serbian Parliament, at least as far as the area covered by Mr Dimitrijevic, the resolute minister, is not at a very high and valid level. Just to remind you that last year, we did not have any laws adopted by the Assembly, and that was one of the reasons why the relevant Assembly Committee on Trade and Tourism, when adopting the annual report on work, felt that this ministry had not done its job properly. So, back to a united debate. There are four laws ahead of us. The DS will give their position on them. The proposal for a competition law regulates the area of market behaviour primarily by large companies, which have an impact on market movements in size. The objectives of the existence of this branch of rights can be defined in several directions. I just want to mention some, that there is, above all, in the interest of consumer protection, which is achieved through the direct sanctioning of the companies that are disrupting this process. This is to prevent the spilling of wealth from the hands of citizens into the hands of large businesses. Also, the aim is to increase the economic efficiency of the market. In systems where there is no protection of competition, companies have been left with full freedom to negotiate with each other on the division of the market, raising the level of prices and so on, all leading to the creation of uncertainty. Another objective of the law, which the DS considers to be really important and significant, is to a full extent achieved in EU member states, which is to create a single market. If we look at it from our angle, we have to say that we look through the privatisation process, the opening of the economy, through the possibility that the concentration of capital in the hands of individuals does not lead to a situation where the position is used to harm citizens, or end-users. The Competition Protection Act represents the necessary solution. The DS knows the meaning of this law very well. That is why it is surprising for the ruling group's desire and behaviour to post-poly adopt this law in the way we have it here today, that it be in a united debate and that Parliament and MPs discuss it the way we are doing it today. On the other hand, if we have the fact that the ruling group is constantly on the table or that they are full of the mouth of Europe, they do not confirm it through this kind of activity and through the debate on these laws at all. But knowing the significance of this law, the DS came up with a real analysis. I have to say, this law has a lot of shortcomings. It applies, and this is what we have also said in the discussion that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, above all on the competition protection committee. According to the bill, the commission has advice. The council is five members. The DS doesn't think it's a good idea. If you take a closer look at the members, you'll see why. The council numbers five members, the quorum is three, and we believe that in this case it is easier to influence members of the council, with due respect for all future members the Serbian Parliament will choose. We believe that it is easier to influence fewer council members than it would be on the DS proposal to increase that number, making it a stronger and stronger relationship. Also, there is a possibility that there may be a blockage of the council's work, in case three members of the council lose their status. The procedure for selecting members of the council is quite complicated or time-consuming and can be extended even up to a set of months. So, we think that the number of members of the council, as proposed by the DS, should be greater and thus, once again, I remind you, we are making it impossible and preventing any blocking of the work of the council. The president's right to decide on the president's vote in the event of an equally divided vote. I think we'll have a legal precedent in this case. The law stipulates that the session is attended by four members and that we have the same number of votes, two or two, deciding on the vote of the president. We think that such a solution is not good and is not based in the Constitution. We believe that the competent minister, given that the DS has an amendment to these members of the law, will see the importance of what we want to apostrophy and hope that we will have an understanding and that our solution will be accepted. Also, the financing of the commission is projected from the budget. In the first year alone, funding from the budget is foreseen. The question of its continued existence is raised in the coming years, so what will happen in the second, third and next year. It also left the possibility of funding through donations, which despite the ban, which is clearly highlighted in the Bill's proposal that economic operators can, or cannot be donors, leave the possibility of a hidden donation through other entities, thus jeopardising the independence of the Commission's work. We have proposed the amendment that a better solution is to leave the possibility that in at least two or three years, the commission will have uninterrupted funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget, at least until this institute is brought to life in a good way. The biggest complaint concerning this part of the law is that the commission does not have the opportunity to impose sanctions, which is to a large extent devising the idea of protecting the system, which is being achieved through this law. So, DS thinks this law is a good idea, but if we really want to have a quality law, we need to co-operate with everyone in this Parliament. In that sense, I want to believe that the minister will have a lot of understanding and take it as a good intention and desire from the DS that we really have one quality law and that in that sense he will appreciate the amendments that we have submitted to this law. As for the draft advertising law, law writers and they weren't trying to predict the possibility that e-mails, websites, mobile phone screens would become advertising space. The largest space through this law focused on editing the already existing situation, especially in advertising through television, press and open space through billboards and posters. I want to realize that it's certainly not a good sign, first of all for those who see a good business space for themselves through this kind of vision. Irregularity will not be attractive to anyone who wants to invest in this area, i.e. those who would be ready for the sponsorship of a site to set out a decent budget and a considerable amount of money. This law will not regulate issues such as how many levels, or how many links must exist between media content and direct link, to tobacco, alcoholic or pornographic sites, which are advertised through this law, are prohibited. A similar restriction could be placed within the site itself. Through this law we do not see at how many levels below the cover there must be no links to sites, whose advertising is forbidden and restricted. Such solutions exist in the West, such solutions are not foreseen in our bill. The law is not clear enough in advertising by e-mail, and I would especially like to refer to it as a ban on spreading, or sending unwanted advertising messages. Article 9 mentions that it is forbidden to send a notice to those who have made it clear to the advertiser that they do not want to receive it which, you will agree with me, does not prevent every message from being received at least once. Such a defined provision pleases, first of all, unconscious advertisers, because it allows them to send a large number of advertising messages without prior consent, they feel that they have the consent of all who have not subsequently objected to the fact that they have received an ad message in one of these ways. The electronic advertising message must contain the correct electronic address, telephone number, whose use of the recipient can easily, at no extra cost, provide a request to suspend further sending of the message. That's not defined by this bill. The obligation of the advertiser is that, prior to sending the advertising message, it shall possess the previously obtained consent of the recipient and shall be contained through Article 13(1). Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on privacy and electronic communications. According to the bill, there will be particular problems with the media, and I would like to point out that in particular. For commercial television stations, television advertising and TV sales are foreseen. Teleshop, according to this bill, can take 20 per cent of the daily broadcast program. Of that, television advertising can take 15% of the total daily broadcast program. Before this session, we had amendments to the Radio-Difusion Act, and I can say that this is not in line with the Radio-Difusion Act. In fact, it defines that 20% of the daily broadcast programme should be intended for advertising. Public broadcasting services are allowed television advertising and television sales to occupy 10% of the daily broadcast programme. In the event that the public service broadcasts sports manifestations of national importance, whether they are Olympic games, European or world championships, it is no matter, then this percentage is higher, or can be broadcast by hour nine minutes of advertising, with the broadcasting not to exceed 10% of the total daily minutes. Article 18. The draft law on advertising for DS is, at the very least, incomprehensible and legally unfounded, as it imposes a Broadcasting Agency as a relevant body in defining which are international sporting events since the national event. This proposal directly affects market conditions by the Republic Broadcasting Agency. This solution is unacceptable. I once again take the opportunity to ask the Minister, given that there is an amendment on this matter, and since colleagues from the Committee on Trade and Tourism have accepted the DS proposal and addressed it as an amendment to the Committee, the minister has a lot of understanding for one such member and to accept our argument and that this member be deleted from the bill. Also, it seems to us that there will be problems if the commercial TV station buys TV rights, and we are increasingly able to witness such situations. Then can they increase the minute it's intended to sell the advertising space? It's not clearly defined. Probably not. It should be mentioned here that soon, as the minister said, from October 1st, we will have a TV subscription, from where public broadcasting services will be financed. This means that public broadcasting services in these cases will be financed by citizens, financed from the budget and financed from third parties, which is by advertisers. The comparisons are to take the BBC, it's only funded by the citizens' subscription. You don't need to talk about what it is or who the BBC is. Don't think the DS is against a public broadcasting service. We said our position on that service. Such a service is necessary, it is overly necessary for the state, but I think this way we favour a public broadcasting service compared to other private commercial TV stations, we think it's not a good solution. Interestingly, the issue of advertising that is being broadcast during the series programmes is not explicitly mentioned in this law, so we can expect that the series will be quite long, given that the minister initially said that we will have a law that will now go to the viewers and will release them from a kilometre or several hours of advertising interruptions. This way, by the bill, at least as far as the series is concerned, they're very popular, they won't be properly defined. If the film can not be interrupted until 45 minutes and the time of the commercials is 12 minutes, the films will interrupt in those 45 minutes with a 12-minute advertising block, as the second term for advertising will not be. So, for advertising space, it's gonna be a show. As far as the radio program is concerned, it seems he's staying pretty out of the way. In fact, through the bill, we have been shown that radio programmes will be applied to members related to television, i.e. art. 18, 19 and 20. That's not a good solution. The provisions of the laws relating to a medium that works completely differently and are different from radio programs and radio shows cannot be applied. We believe that the issue of advertising on this media is very badly perceived and that it will not make a valid move. All in all, to sum up, the DS considers these laws very important. We've brought forth a number of shortcomings that they contain in themselves. From how much the promoter is willing to accept the amendments we have made, we will appreciate whether the DS will vote in favour of these laws. The DS would not want the ruling group with a smile to accept and listen to the amendments to the opposition, and after that, the proposals that they have formed to vote in the text proposed to us. We don't think they're good solutions and it won't do anybody any good. If we are again in a situation where, after five or six months, we are changing the laws that we are adopting today, then certainly, the area we want to regulate will not be regulated properly and in a quality way. We want Serbia in this area to really get quality laws. We're ready to help with this as a responsible party. From the seriousness of the promoter, the seriousness of the government depends on whether or not we have serious laws. I hope that the minister in charge has the willingness to accept this argument and that he will not reason on principle – we are not going to have Democrats to salt our brains, we are the smartest. I believe there will be reason, I believe that there will be strength to accept what we consider to be good and quality. So the choice stays on the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18913	The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Baralic. Here you go. Notice, so you can schedule your jobs. Today, like I said, it'll be done by the end of the day, until 6:00. A united debate will continue during tomorrow, as Friday's assembly does not ambush. This means that the next item of the agenda will be considered, so until the end of these agendas. And on Monday, we will discuss the point - the law on the protection of citizens. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18914	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, associates from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, every citizen of this country has been a consumer since birth to a deep age. So all the laws that determine this area in any way are very important and approach them with extreme seriousness and with those who write and those who consider them. I hope neither of them have been deprived of responsibility for this phenomenon, because it is a law concerning the 10 million inhabitants of our country. There's been a long time if some of these laws were in the process and for reasons I wouldn't comment here, they were repeatedly withdrawn from the procedure. It may be a signal for this or for that, but it's definitely important that today they are in front of the MPs, that they are being discussed that they will certainly be adopted. I'm going to say something about every law. As for the law on the protection of competition, I support what is said in the opening statement, in the address of Mr. Minister Dimitrijevic. Competition is one universal principle and a universal principle in all areas. The higher the degree of competition, the more significant the guarantee that a particular area will be implemented in a more efficient, beneficial way and that, as previously said, those who need to use the legislation's solutions will be in place. I want to say that I doubt that it is possible by law to regulate this important principle to the extent that it gives full assurance that what I'm talking about will be all the same. Our country is going through a period that has allowed a large number of people to become owners of great goods, large money and large assets, and this is not the result of this principle that I am talking about here, the principles of competition, but of something else, and that they will today try to extend their lives in every way possible to the principle that has provided them with that they can become uninterrupted and enormously rich. But it all comes to an end, even that kind of behavior. That's why it's important for this area to be arranged in one of these ways. What else is a problem here? The problem is large and powerful companies that come into unprotected Serbia, which come to Serbia whose domestic economic structure cannot respond properly and which in all possible ways try to dict this principle of competition, in a way that suits them. I'll mention a few, I've already talked about it on the board several times. When big hypermarkets and similar organizations come, they have at the very beginning so-called. the phenomenon of first filling, so that, practically, the blackmail of potential suppliers, potential economic operators they will work with, that depending on the number of products or the value of that job, so-called The first filling of the device and making the gratis. Thus, in practice, this poor economic structure in Serbia extends more than a leper allows it to fill up its shelves with large and powerful megamarkets, sometimes measured by dozens of millions of euros, then by various other so-called. commercial actions and other ways of trying to dictate the conditions which for the largest number of their potential suppliers are unsustainable. In this way they threaten their substance, and those who make these big markets thus earn enormous profits. And so please, here are the most competent people at the head of the minister, asking everyone who can help keep this from happening that way, because by definition after a few months, many of these suppliers I'm talking about are putting a lock on their firms and they can no longer survive, and these others are going further and wider. But not to spread that story, everyone understands the language I speak here and everyone knows it's true. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I want to say that the price of entry is the price of so-called price. The first charge between 450 and 500 euros per item, and the article is everything in the shelves of a large market, so times the number of products, so times, you know how it's already multiplying. So let's just say that we know that this is happening and we ask all the competent authorities to stop it, if they are loud and if possible. That's what I wanted to say here, because, first of all, I'm expected by those who had conversations with me on this subject. Some of these confessions are dramatic. That, I must say, is one of the pagan things from which practically small towns in Serbia, and even in Belgrade itself, there is in a completely illegal way a destruction of the commercial and economic structure in Serbia, and let me put it in a colloquial language - a thick goose is hooking up, and we have an obligation to say it and try to prevent it. That's one thing. The second thing, this law should regulate, i.e. not to allow for the next period of concentration and so on. For a number of reasons, it's important. Not only will the physical layout of trading facilities, the commercial networks will be as they will be, thus jeopardising others, but they will be able to use dumping prices and other known instruments to influence these small ones to shut down faster than they would otherwise have been able to withstand that such concentrations do not exist. I have to say, it's going really hard and it's not going to work in practice. I just live in a town that already has two or three megamarkets. These days, Mercator will also open a megamarket in Chačka. It is absolutely certain that a small trade network will cease to exist entirely. It won't hold. Economists would say – so what, competition is what it is, but the implications of it are a little different, it's just one concept, it's reality. In one such small space are large world houses that come there, according to very strict rules employed by people, on conditions that would be valuable to be in some institutes or I don't know where else, they have ways to choose, because for a job, I remind you, 176 jobs are called "Merkator" in Cačka, registered 3,500 people. They don't receive any interns, they don't receive anyone indefinitely, they ask for very, very strict conditions. Who in this country, if all goes this way, who will train the trainees, where our children will perform the traineeship and that internship when simply, those great ones who come will immediately be finished, those who have great experience and so on. When this little social economy, which still exists, ceases to exist, then I really don't know how it's possible for it to work in the future, but it's also a topic for another occasion. I want everyone to succeed in their work, if he's ready and able, but of course I have an obligation to say how these things work. (President: Would you like to use the other ten minutes? I will, thank you. The price law I don't want to comment on, it's all said here. Serbia normally belongs to those countries that have almost the largest number of products in the liberal regime, except those listed here, including those listed under some other laws, such as postal traffic laws, telecommunications, 2007-2009. completely, practically, cease to apply, because liberalisation in the area will be resolved by some other law, not this. It's something that goes by itself. He mentioned Mr. Minister of Double Prices. I just want to say, it's been a long time for us to travel to Europe, as we say. Double prices in Serbia are corrected as follows: so that domestic consumers, citizens of Serbia, when we made a decision, when they decided that, say, hotel accommodation prices could not be as different for foreigners and domestic guests, then the difference was paid by domestic guests, because they paid for hotels as much as for foreigners. The toll's the same thing. We now have one dynamic with toll toll which by, I think, in 2007 should be evened out in this way that domestic and foreign pay the same. That's nice when it's explained in Europe, but it costs a lot in Serbia. In that sense, a double price, I understand why it must cease to exist, but I am also obliged to say how it ceases to exist. That's very important, because I don't think the citizens of Serbia understand why this is happening with toll and other things. I remind you, there were people's MPs here, when the same price of accommodation in hotels for foreigners and local guests was equal in that meeting, that the price of hotel accommodation in the hotels "Prag", "Excelsior" and others, where we slept at that time, was practically increased by 120%. That's absolutely true, we were all users of these services and we know how that thing went. (Natasa Jovanovic from the place: where are you now? ) Miss Jovanovic, meanwhile, has the right to regulate her accommodation in some other way and well-trained people do not receive other MPs. So, as far as the public advertising law, which is most important here, I'd like to say that we've tried to talk to everyone who's interested in this area on a number of occasions. So Media Center organized a big meeting with advertisers, marketing editors, managers of various electronic media, regional chambers of commerce organised such talks as Nis. We're here, our board here organized a conversation with advertisers, with the media, with people from the Ministry. We had a chance for everyone we wanted, the Advertiser Association also sent a large number of amendments that were in the process, everyone had a chance to say what they were thinking. The government has made it clear as it thought possible and, of course, the MPs in the debate on details will say what they think on the subject. This law is important for a number of reasons, because it regulates one area in which there is a very large javalry, in which there is great potential, there is great money. I remind you that in the reasoning of the Law on Change and Supplements to the Radio Diffusion Act here, it was said that the potential of Serbia's radio-television marketing was between 15m and 50m euros over the course of one year. If that radio-television station didn't exist, that cake would be divided into some of the private big and powerful media. So it's a potentially big job, and it's also about the largest number of citizens who are viewers, programme listeners or readers of printed media, who have the opportunity to follow advertising messages in everyday communication and it's about the great interest of people who produce services or goods, who need to advertise. So, the government has a responsibility, this ministry has a responsibility to find a measure between these several interests, to arrange advertising in a way that will ensure that economic operators can advertise and benefit from it; that electronic advertising media benefit from it; that Serbian citizens benefit from it because it will receive information that is valuable when they want to identify what they want to buy or purchase, but also in such a way that viewers and listeners have no harm from the way they advertise. This is very important, and I think that this law has managed to resolve this last dilemma through several members who in a precise way define how advertising must be conducted, primarily in electronic media. There is now advertising that is so problematic that it deserves the attention of some other authorities. There was a dilemma here whether a public service should be given the right to engage in commercial advertising or because a subscription has been introduced and the amendment has been accepted to introduce a transition fund for a specified time, that this public service should only produce and broadcast an appropriate programme, and that what we call economic propaganda is reserved only for commercial cells. I also think a middle solution has been found, and I don't think it should be lost out of sight, I don't think that's the case here, RTS and others are public service, they have several obligations that don't have commercial TV and radio stations and in every way they need to help function the way it is prescribed and that provides citizens with the best possible information, the best possible program, education and everyone else. Commercial stations have, with that in mind, a different approach and it's their boss's business, their management, their understanding of the whole thing. There's a number of local stations that will have future advertising that won't be called that, which will be essentially, I can list examples, but that's not my intention. You have a small television station in one city that makes, say, a local self-government, and there's no special technical, no other agreement with it. You have a small television station that puts into the information program a single event that is completely trivial, compared to anything else that happens in this city's business life, but of course we recognize first of all a commercial relationship, but that will be solved by the privatisation of these cells. I'm talking about stations that are now under the authority of local, urban and regional authorities. It would be good that as soon as possible before the provisions of this law are in place, because there are a whole series of problems now in Serbia; there are advertising messages with highlighted sexist content, there are advertising messages that offend dignity and morality, there are advertising messages that talk about, which are not allowed in graduation, about other products or manufacturers. It is allowed, in my understanding, to say – it is a great toothpaste that I have produced, but it is very difficult to say – it is the best toothpaste I have produced. It's even worse to wear a white coat that's going to introduce himself as a doctor, he knows everything, the doctor who's going to say – is the best toothpaste I have in my hand, because I, as a dentist, claim it. That's inadmissible, and I hope that doesn't happen. I think it's very important that all this be arranged, that we have all these effects that I've been talking about here, and that's why the SPS will vote in favour of the advertising law and the other laws that are on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18915	Do any of the other authorised representatives or presidents want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted four parliamentary groups, the SRS, the DSS, the G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to the MP Sanja Cekovic, and let the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18916	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, we are discussing four laws today. However, the debate is united, but all four laws meet in some parts, and in that sense it is not wrong that the debate on them is united. Today we are talking about the proposal for a law on competition, advertising, consumer protection and prices. All these four laws cover one large area, one area that we have so far handled differently in the laws of this Parliament, which is the market. We dealt with the market in tax laws, especially in last year's meeting. And in the area tax laws, the market has been regulated in one of the better ways and at this point these tax laws certainly show their financial and economic effect. What the Assembly has delayed several times because of the large number of laws we have, and we will have in the future, these are the laws that we are talking about today and at the moment when it is time for these laws to be adopted, to be applied and to regulate the market in one, the best way, according to the countries of the European Union. I think that today's debate should be directed towards that direction, that these laws be applied as soon as possible and that amendments remove any deficiencies or failures, if any, in this law. We haven't had a regulation through the Republic Ministry about all these laws so far. We had through federal laws and the adoption of these laws certainly left room for us to address all four areas in the best way: prices, consumers, advertising and competition. We are witnessing that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, when he goes to any of the European countries, brings and brings here an extraordinary impression from that market. So, as consumers in these countries, we meet with regulated products, with stable prices, with product quality and one country and government heading towards Europe, speedily, through such good and quality laws should do so in our Republic of Serbia. What is very important to say about these laws, not because of us, because Members of the Republic Parliament read the laws and on committees do so, but because of our viewers watching the programme, is that the proposal for a consumer protection law provides legal protection for consumers. For the first time, we can say that the consumer, therefore the buyer, who bought the product can expect full protection of his rights if the product, which he bought, is not according to the norms and criteria provided for by the law. What in this law is the same characteristic, which is the newspaper, is the formation of the Council of Ministers for Consumer Protection. It is concluded from the very name that the Council is bound by a minister, and what is very important for consumers is that people who are representatives of the consumer organisation must necessarily appear in this council. It is very important that there are scientists, experts from certain areas, therefore, from areas of advice to be dealt with. This law has not only used EU experience, but has used proposals and advice from people who are expert in the field of law and economy. The proposal for a law on competition protection is, as another law I mention today, a bill that provides effective competition on the market and equality of market participants. Competition is very important. Competition is something that encourages production and competition is something that leads to a free and strong market. It is also very important that, when the advertising law was passed, the worst experience in Serbia was used – that often those who did not have the right to advertise and that by advertising, through public media and newspapers, often did harm and advertised something that should not be advertised. This law regulates rules and ways in which both products and services can be announced. If it's favors, we're witnessing that people are often advertised by some phone numbers, that only someone, when he turned that phone number, was gnawed from what he could hear on the other side. It must regulate the law and one state, like Serbia, and one determined government, as we have, to adopt it as soon as possible, and when we adopt it, then the laws will be applied. The draft price law confirms our economic definition of a free market, of a regulated market. This law contains a basic item, which says prices will be freely educated. So, forming prices under this law is free. There is one part of the product and services that, as in any country, must be controlled; these are the products, services that the state must control and in this sense give authority to the Ministry, which, through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will control the rise of these prices. These are: electricity, coal, oil, bread, road and rail traffic and basic municipal services. As very positive in this bill, I would characterize what is regulated by a member of the law, that local self-government at a certain point, if it loses control of public service prices, will succumb to the right that the Republic Ministry and Government can correct and protect the interests of citizens in all these local areas. I hope, or I am sure that most MPs, who make up the ruling coalition in this House, are aware of the necessity of all these laws. I hope that we have overcome all puberty problems, that we will firmly support all four laws in the voting day, and that in the context of the amendments' debate we will make our remarks. I am quite sure that the ministry's minister will accept everything that is quality and is in favour of these laws and the Republic of Serbia. SPO MPs, as so far, will be happy to vote on reform laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18917	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljiljana Nestorović, under Article 93(3).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18918	Dear Members of the People's Parliament and Mr Minister, the MPs of the SDP have paid particular attention to the proposed set of laws, because we consider it to be fundamental reform laws whose adoption is necessary, as a presumption of our country's economic development. We believe that Serbia cannot develop economically without an open market and established rules for market business. The basic rule of market business is competition and prevention of monopoly, and competition and competition encourages creative and entrepreneurial spirit, making better products and services. Competition only makes healthy natural selection. Monopoly, as we all know, is making toads, ossion behavior and corruption. I must say, when we voted against "The Law on the Elimination of the Oil Industry of Serbia", the 1991 Law, our intensity was not to prevent reform and reorganisation of NIS. It is precisely because we believe that retaining the existing state of affairs is a contribution to retaining the existing state of art – frogcreat, but because we did not have enough relevant information about how this process will take place, that is to say, that, as proposed, it is to the detriment of the citizens of Serbia and the employees of the NIS itself. But to go back to the proposed laws. The competition law is one of the right steps to include a large European market. The competition rules in this big European market are laid down by the European Commission. As for the very rules on the protection of competition itself, the government's Association Commission said that in this material sense the bill is quite good. They had an objection, as did the SDP, to the procedural part of the bill. More specifically, we believe it is not good for the ministry or for the criminal majority to impose penalties for violations, but for penalties to be imposed by a competition commission established by this law, after which administrative dispute could be conducted. I think that even one of the MPs on this proposal of the Government Commission has made amendments, which have been declared by our Assembly Legislative Committee and the committees responsible. What I wanted to say about this is this: even if this proposal cannot be adopted now, because, contrary to our positive law, the competent ministries and the competent ministers should consider the possibility and propose to amend some other laws that would allow for more flexible regulation of competition protection in a way or approximately the way the EU does. It is, in my opinion, perfectly normal if we are indeed seeking this EU. Let's see now what are the measures for the liberalisation of state monopoly. These are, therefore, four things: privatisation, liberalisation, competition and public procurement. When it comes to privatisation, there were a lot of state-owned companies in Europe after World War II, and these companies existed in many activities, just like we did today. The privatisations were controversial until the end of 1970 in Britain, and Margaret Thatcher had just launched this huge wave of privatisation in Britain and then there was a term – privatisation, until then regulated through the term – denationalization. The reasons for privatising state-owned enterprises are undeniable. So the state is not an efficient investor and owner. Politicians are investing according to political priorities, not according to efficiency requirements. Unlike business people, politicians and states can be unpunished. That's why it's good that the state only cares about the general rules without interfering in corporate governance. Competition policy relies on four points: the ban on business agreements aimed at market-sharing, price-sharing and all other practices that distort competition and the functioning of the common market, the prohibition of abuse of dominant market positions, control of company mergers, mutual purchases of companies and control of state aid. In the EU, it is also a practice that has proved useful, vertical subsidies that favour certain companies or branches are prohibited, and only those subsidies from which many companies can profit are allowed. Exceptions are allowed only where the standard of living is enormously low and where projects of common interest, such as that, are carried out in the sphere of culture. When it comes to public procurement, there is no discrimination in the EU between foreign companies and favouring domestic enterprises, which often happens under various demagogue passwords. The situation in Serbia today looks like this: around 60% of the remaining public enterprises and utility companies are not privatised; the government still affects the formation of about 40% of prices; there are restrictions on ownership; the law on politics and competition is not adopted; domestic monopolies dominate the market. In 2003, a Law on Public Procurement was adopted, which gives great priority to domestic firms compared to foreign businesses. However, according to the adopted Implementation Study, which we have recently received a positive assessment, it is necessary to continue the privatisation process, to liberalise trade with the Union, to bring the anti-monopolis policy into line with the Union's policy and to bring the Law on Public Procurement into line with EU solutions. So, my presentation makes it clear that privatisation is one of the basic processes that requires further implementation of all the laws, these four laws that we are discussing today. As the privatisation process is under way today, which is the most important process in this country as a transition state, there are many problems. One is certainly the fact that we are constantly talking about, and that was also when the privatisation of the book of Milos was, that we do not have legislation that clearly specifies the privatisation process to the end, without holes in the law, without being able to manipulate these laws. In doing so, MPs in the National Assembly will not be able to get the corrections of such laws, which would certainly make it possible for such laws to be implemented better. In addition, a very important commission, which should be completely independent, without the influence of the Government or anyone else, has been compromised for a long time, although it has been compromised, even from those people who should above all respect it (and I will remind you of the words of the finance minister, who has assessed the president and the members of the Commission as unskilled and corrupt), is now operating in incomplete composition, because certain members have resigned from membership in that commission, that the president is still the man who, according to high officials of this government, is both incompetent and corrupt. Under such conditions, where the Commission very often prevents what is the property of small shareholders, private property, from going to the market, from going on the market and being traded, it is difficult to talk about the applicability of such laws resulting from a quality privatisation process. SDP MPs have made a number of amendments to the proposed set of laws. Some have been adopted and I thank the minister for having heard that these amendments, I am fully convinced, significantly improving the meaning of these laws. On the other hand, we will discuss those amendments that have not been adopted in the follow-up session. For all the proposed laws of this session we will vote, regardless of what we are the opposition, because although we do not consider all the proposed solutions to be defined and perfect, we believe that they are in the interest of our citizens, and the world's movements will require very rapid changes in everything that is not good in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18919	Okay, three minutes we've been more tolerated since they've got five minutes. The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic and then by Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18920	It is not good when laws are brought together for a single and principled debate, because, apart from being the same representative of the government, there are not many common points between these draft laws. What does advertising law have to do with protecting competition? It's completely two different areas. But, come on, since you decided to go fast, I'm surprised that we don't have one principle debate for 350 laws in the year, and then all the dwarves can end. I will not comment on the proposals of the law to which the SRS has submitted amendments, because there are several amendments and there are several amendments that can be discussed, so that we will leave the debate on this proposal of the competition law and the draft advertising law to say a little more in the course of the debate in principle. There's something I'd like to say about the consumer protection bill. You see, this law is really necessary. However, what it implements through these bill proposals is that it is obvious that some experiences have been used. Maybe I'm wrong about the names of the states, whether it's Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Austria, Cyprus, Greece, you'll realize it doesn't matter. However, some solutions that exist in Western Europe cannot be applied to us. You see, in Belgium and the Netherlands, almost all price-related issues regulate the ministry's recommendations. In some countries, and even what is anti-monopoly legislation is minor in the jurisdiction of the individual. So this blind copying or mixing of multiple regulations from different countries really makes one papaziania that is inadmissible. And then there's some cavities, some holes between terms and members. We need a consumer protection law and believe it should be a fundamental trade law with us, because the state has an obligation to protect consumers. However, to some of the solutions that you have stated here, we have not submitted amendments because we believe that in many provisions this law is inadmissible. Since we haven't written any amendments, I'm gonna go through this bill. In Article 2(3), you defined what the seller is, so you said that, within the meaning of this law, a company, a company, another legal person, an entrepreneur, etc. I don't know why you were putting in a company. If you're referring to a public company, then it should be defined differently. Later, you also get a call from the company and you don't see any important connection. I'm surprised that in article 4, where you're talking about special protection and you list some groups, you've made it nice – children, older, sick, and you should have put pregnant women. It had to. It's a special category, a team before the government takes any views on the politics of the nationality. Pregnant women are always particularly potent, I guess I shouldn't explain why. But they enjoy special protection in almost all areas, even here. I really don't understand it in Article 16 where you said, "It's forbidden", so point "3) - to discriminate against consumers in terms of type, quality, price of products and services" etc. The prohibition of discrimination is a general principle. It is forbidden to discriminate. A ban on discrimination is being imposed, and maybe that should have been a different formula. I won't comment on these packages and these things, but in Article 22 you said: Product delivery, when it comes to higher value products, I assume it refers to furniture, heating, etc. – The seller is obliged to provide consumer delivery of the purchased product to the consumer's address. What do you mean by "security"? "Simpo" terrifies its cost, and other companies, and already if you buy the heating he says – yes, we have transportation, but you have to pay for it. So the term "security" can be interpreted either double or triple. I, as a salesman, provided, here at my expense, and here for you to pay. And what if a man doesn't want to use that transport, but wants someone else to transfer it to him? I think you should distinguish that because of traders, because they're going to have big problems, even though there's a perfectly solid practice of how it's done. It's a good thing you put this in on the catalyst purchase, etc. and other forms of sale. In the case of a consumer loan, Article 29(2) says: "The consumer credit provider is obliged to notify the consumer in writing before the contract is concluded," and now all other things that follow are general conditions for use. It is unclear whether everyone delivers it in writing or in a place that is publicly advertised, so it is understood that they are all notified in this way. These exactities are needed, precisely, because of those involved in business control. Furthermore, in Article 24 you said – the consumer has the right to object to the purchased product or service, for which no guarantee paper is issued, due to the shortcomings that occurred within six months of the day of purchase, or service performed. It is a product for which there is no legal obligation to grant guarantees. So it's not a technical device. It could've been a different formulation because this formula is rhubarb. In Article 34, the final position states: "The seller, i.e. the service provider, is obliged to establish with his act the way and conditions of resolving the objection". It's something called intelligence. The consumer must be informed of that. It's not enough to just prescribe, yes, you have to have some general terms of your own how you're going to solve this dispute that has arisen and this procedure. The consumer comes within that deadline, submits it as evidence, it is resolved within a certain period. You have obliged this seller, but it needs to be informed of the consumer so that he can actually use his rights, which the law prescribes, precisely because of him, and not because of the seller. Only one different formulation was used here. It is the right of consumers, from which the obligations of the seller arise. Furthermore, in Article 38, I only open it at the level of principle, says – products and services of general interest. This is where you listed two positions, public companies, or companies and entrepreneurs who carry out activities of general interest in accordance with the law, are obliged to provide their products and services continuously in a manner that ensures the prescribed quality, to regularly inform, etc. Then you say, in a different attitude, on the basis of the actual delivery or service done. Please, more than 70% of the apartments in our apartment buildings have a common plumber. The housing company cuts it off according to consumption, according to the number of household members, the delivery goes. It's impossible to apply this if everyone pays for a favor according to the service they've actually done. I took one example, it's drinking water or what becomes more technical water every day. There's no plumber. Why? Because 99% of the housing fund was built at a time when workers and the working class mastered the whole of social reproduction, so everything was everyone's. I'm a great opponent of these arbitration bodies and so on. non-judicial protection. It's a product, its quality or service. When it comes to working relationships, they're Lalovic's inventions. I think that's at the level of theory, we're allowing something else to be solved, the law allows some possibility of a contract, and we're essentially going to see that it's just buying for a while. I don't think in this law you've made a clear distinction between what is the responsibility of the manufacturer and what is the responsibility of the seller. There's been a lot of reports with us that there's something responsible for the seller, and there's still a shortage from the manufacturer. I can give you a few examples. One of the characteristics is, say, conditor products. I have this personal experience, because I worked in that industry, at the time. When advertising is performed it often ends with the manufacturer, and when the manufacturer controls through its professional services, it is seen that it has not been quality stored, that it has been exposed to the sun in a window, etc. The product is correct, but you can see some white on that chocolate, so it's a conclusion that something's broken. I think that's where you had to find the limit. I know you have another bill of responsibility for the hidden deficiencies, in the procedure is one bill of law, which was delivered several months ago. Did you mean it that way to solve it? I think that law tends much more to what is technique than to other areas. Furthermore, the Consumer Protection Council – the Ministry is educated in this council, we do not know the composition, and I do not think there are even provisions on the mandate here. I may have made a mistake, but I don't think so. It's the advisory body. What's in some form should exist. We have a situation that today there are ordered, to say to some extent NGOs, which are concerned with consumer protection, but they have been commissioned by people and he has his own advice which objectively tells about some other products, and when it comes to a product that finances this consumer advice – it meets the conditions, our analyses show that this is quality. I think it will be the greatest danger in this part, that consumers can, in some ways, influence the quality of products, services and even services through some institution, that they as consumers have something! Believe me, for several months now, there's been a major problem with these reform laws, which is that neither this government nor the previous one has been able to determine a clear distance as to what would be the state government, what would be government, and what would be local self-government? Is this the concept of a two-stage local self-government, is it something that looks like stronger or weaker centralisation and accordingly sees the absence of one definition, where the control authorities, inspections, first-degree organs? This includes communal inspectors, you will also be contacted by inspectors of your ministry, so that in the area where municipal inspectors are, you can hardly regulate this law, because it is fully regulated by some other regulations, so that they fall within the jurisdiction of one completely different level, and not even power, but local self-government. It is not a lack of original this concept, it is a lack of all our regulations on the relation of states – state government, local self-government, which is not a government. What are trusted jobs? We've been going around this CZ today and there's no way to say here about this state administration bill where total papacy was made. There are all sorts of things placed in the authorities of the state administration, and one member says it is the ministry, in another, that it is the authority of the administration in the authority of the state administration, and in the third special organisation, so organisations that exercise public authority in the form of public enterprises and public services, are pure papazians. When you get to the status quo, then the law doesn't help you. It's going to be a big problem with this law. This law has a problem that in many things it is not fixed. Probably one of these reasons for indetermination is something that is imposed as an objective flaw, which is that this relationship is not defined and that dimension, which is how far away from the central government, what is first-degree jurisdiction, what is second-degree jurisdiction, etc. I don't want to spread the subject. This first problem, just what I was saying, appears in article 76 as a lack, where it is said that, against the resolutions of Articles 74 and 75, an appeal may be made within eight days, to the competent second-degree authority. Who's that? If it's a communal inspection, who's the second-degree organ? Is there any question as to whether this law can be applied at all? I'm not going to spread any further on this, and from what I understand, you're going to solve a market inspection by that special law, but something is intertwining here. If you're going to pass a special inspection law in this area, I must say that quite a number of provisions of the existing law, which regulates the inspection, you must forget. Unfortunately, my concept didn't win. Everything they look at in those books should go to the financial police, i.e. now in the tax administration, and keep this matter clean – testing the quality of the product, the arrangements of the facility, whether the bills are issued, whether they are declared etc. It needs their jurisdiction to be, and Dinkic should finish the job in his own way. I was at the head of this ministry for a while, so we had to do a lot of things, because they shoot from above, they shoot down! That it doesn't happen again. It can't be a market inspector. They were molested by both police officers and customs officers and everyone else and all of them, the ones who were at least guilty. I apologize for this intrusion, because I had to say it for a public who has been misinformed for many years about what these people have been doing. Next thing I know, it's a price bill. We've been thinking about the price bill for a long time. We had a problem with that anti-monopoly regulation, so 60-70% of the price was in some control system, previous, subsequent consents, etc., so we downloaded it and downloaded it. When the time of war came, we had less than 35%, and then we had to go back again. What did we have to return? Well, salaries limited – 60, 70 to 100 marks, and local authorities raise municipal services to the sky, something justified and quite justified, due to the disturbed economic structure in society. Today we came to another extreme, where the state almost has no influence on the prices of utility services, which are within the jurisdiction of local self-management. I use the term "local self-management" on purpose because local self-government is incorrect. We now have a situation of screaming citizens, calling the government, and prices raised by Bogdanovic or Smiljko Kostic or someone else. Whoever wrote this price bill first faced the problem of not reading the NBS Act. If he had read the law, he would have clearly read in the first five members that the NBS is in charge of price stability. It's clearly written. In that part, the government of the Republic of Serbia, when it writes what is written in Article 5, it confuses us. It wasn't in the NBJ Act once, so there was a problem with Vlatkovic. For nothing, you run a policy of price stability if he lets under the line. When the NBJ Act was amended and it was later prescribed, so the NBS Act came here, I think it stands in the first or second member – the NBS is responsible for the stability of the price. It's so rhobarbly written, that maltenes only exist to be stable prices. Only in the 25th provision – macroeconomic policy, monetary stability, secondary interventions, on the primary market, open market operations, they first said – the price stability, so now it confuses me. What's still confusing me is that the whole law is in the form of phrases. Tell me, on the basis of this bill, what products are under control and under what form of control? You said in principle - notification, earlier, later. Consent may be both previous and ex post, but for what products? Who determines which products will be in which mode? Or someone else is going to decide that. If that's the case, then we don't need the law, then you could have reduced the whole law to five members. First member – anything that is not prescribed by this law will be prescribed by the Government and the end of the story. I know it's hard for you after 5 October 2000, when our market is open as a can, they open a can and say, "Here you go, no market protection, no production protection, no protection of our producers, everything is open, they come in at the dumping prices of products." Which one? The ones that compete most with our production. Our production stagnates and it goes that way. Now it's very difficult to go back to some price control regime, make sure our economy is a little bit alive. It's hard. Now there's no political commitment. And what price do we have to keep under control? Electricity? Someone else does. You mean, like, garnering oil or something? Someone else does. Bread, milk? What is strategic, what is of the interest where the state says – we guarantee every citizen the prices of these products and keep them on the regime. I do not demand from this place that you abuse your authority, but I demand that it be prescribed in law: the state bears responsibility for the prices of these products, it will control the prices of these products. Let's see, prior consent, notification by regulation of criteria. I expected that by this regulation at least in principle you would touch something that is in practice a big problem, and that is how those prices that are on the regime are freely formed. We can't accept that the margin is 5%, and about 45%. If you look at the structure of the retail price of some products, you'll see everything and everything. They're warning me, but it'll be up to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-31-0.u18921	Mr. Krassic, I didn't warn you. As far as I'm concerned, you could have spoken for another hour. Now it is the People's MP Milka Silaev's turn, and we have seven minutes. If she's a little seven minutes old, I suggest we finish now and move on tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
