ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11451	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 125 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from being attended by MPs Vesna Pantic-Aksentijević, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Sanja Cekovic, Dejan Rajčić and Aleksandar Vlahovic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the law on the establishment of a public enterprise for air traffic you have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11452	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at today's session is one law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to the following: we had an old law from 1992 on Yugoslav Airport, a company founded; now it is proposed that one company be created, while the daughter of the company Airport is completely separated and that we have two public enterprises – meaning "JAT AIRWAYS" and "Belgrade" Airport. What's the point? The goal is for the airport to be able to operate, to borrow credit, to enter certain investments and projects. The condition is to adapt to a new way of doing business, to get Belgrade into the airport system in Europe, and you know that it strives for an open sky over Europe, that airports will be a separate continent. I ask you to support this law, because it is very important that certain investments at the airport continue at a full pace. This law enters into force on 1 July 2005.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11453	I am also taking the opportunity to welcome the representatives of the unions who are at the gallery and who are following this session. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Do any of the MPs want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, MP Kekic, authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11454	Dearly respected presidency, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, in short I will just say that all this said by Minister Ilic is true and that it concerns first and foremost the harmonisation of the positive legislation with the emerging situation, with the aim of forming two separate companies and with this goal as said by the minister. The Law on Public Enterprises in the exercise of action of general interest has authorised the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do all this, but I have reported first of all because of a few sentences. The law will surely be passed by this assembly, because it represents a harmonisation of all matter with positive legal regulations, but if the government and other state institutions do not take appropriate measures to protect JAT Airways as a nominated carrier for Serbia-Montenegro with Belgrade Airport, we will certainly come to a very difficult situation to "JAT Airways" and function. So I'd just say a few measures that are very important and that are common in both foreign and foreign state authorities should be taken to protect JAT Airways. This is the approval of air traffic authorisation strictly in accordance with bilateral agreements and other legal acts, banning the issuing of nominations to a carrier from Serbia-Montenegro for flights from Belgrade, unless the same Belgrade Airport is a basic, banning authorisation in charter traffic for countries where the nominated carrier carries out regular traffic. The characteristics are Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Russia, especially in the days of vacations and abolish the transfer airport tax on Belgrade Airport, as it applies only to the passengers of JAT Airways. What is characteristic, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia should know, or is certain to know, that the price of fuel at Belgrade Airport is much more expensive than all those airports. Here are some concrete data, which is that for international traffic in Belgrade, the price of a ton of kerosene in December 2004 was $579, while for domestic traffic, due to the sales tax at that time, was $695, and the comparative review was in London 497, Amsterdam 506, Frankfurt 510, Rome 517. This price and how it burdens, i.e. leading to an increase in the cost of flights and the fact that JAT Airways cannot be competitive with other carriers. So much for that. I would take the opportunity to, with the presence of the Minister of Capital Investments, under whose direct authority is the Republic Roads Directorate, say that I have had the opportunity to pass through Serbia and in such weather conditions, well done and highways, well done and highways, but surely that the Ministry of Capital Investments, through its traffic inspectors at the district level, could be questioned, that is, to determine how to maintain regional roads. While local roads must have come to a certain problem, as many local self-governments were only at the end of November, in early December forming their local authorities and certainly were not in a position to dispel tenders, to obtain certain amounts of salt. As it is announced that these disasters will last until February, I think traffic inspectors in the districts could take legal measures and force certain road companies, or operators of these activities, to and under such difficult conditions as possible ensure that normal roads function.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11455	Do any of the MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there have been no reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, I conclude the search in principle. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude a search in particular, does the proposing representative, Velimir Ilic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE RAD (principles) You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Ljiljana Nestorović, Marko Krstin, Sava Urosevic, Miroslav Markić, Dusan Mrvoš, Snezana Lakić-Stojačić, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milan Marković, Goran Jakšić, Branislav Rankić, Milovan Radovanović, Zlatko Radić, Aleksandar Djordić, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Bozidar Koprivica, Vjerica Rade, Dragoljub Stamenković, Momir Marković, Stevica Deđanski, Darko Glišić, Zlatan Žović and Mirislav Milajić, Petar Jojić, Nataša Jovanović, Mileta Poskurić, Miljko Četrović, Miljko Četrović, Momčev, Gora Momčič, Goran Gličev, Goran Žović and Mirko Žović together with Mrović, Mirko Žović, Mirko Žović, Mirko and Mirko and Miršić. You have received notices from MPs to withdraw amendments, namely: Milan Marković to members 2, 20 and 53, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić to members 105, 112, 125, 187 and 196 and Sava Urosevic to Article 119. At a session of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, MP Toma Busetic withdrew the amendment, which he submitted along with MP Brancet Stojanovic, who proposed the addition of a new member of 197a. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Just to read who the representatives are for this agenda point; for DSS - Jovan Palalić, for DS - Boris Tadic - Milan Markovic, for G17 Plus - Ivana Kovacevic, for SPO - SPO - Slobodan Zivkucin and for SPS - Toma Busetic. Does the proposing representative, Slobodan Lalovic, the minister of labour, employment and social policy, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11456	Dear Presidency, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I will take this opportunity to present in several basic ideas the motives and objectives of the Labour Law, which is today before you and which we will discuss these days, and hopefully finally adopt. So the basic idea that led the government of the Republic of Serbia in the drafting of this text of the law was the need to find and define a certain measure, simply because our assessment was and was that the still applicable Labour Act, which was passed in 2001, had moved too clumsily to one side. As we all know, we're all very inclined to move the clan to the extreme left or right, but we can't find the right measure of things. The Serbian government's assessment was that the slaughter went too far to one side, according to employers, that in this sense there are too many biased solutions, and that the imbalance that exists in relation to the world of work and the world of capital is something that is actually to the general harm. Of course, there are possible ideas or approaches to that, and if the clucent goes too far on one side can be of general benefit. However, it has been shown in practice that this is not good. None of us asked for the slaughter to go to one side. It's our tendency to be too zealous, it's our tendency to be more Catholic than the Pope. There's nothing to ask of you, but you assume it would be a good thing to do, so you're going that way. On the other hand, when drafting the Labour Law, which is before you, we had to bear in mind and a realistic requirement for legal solutions to be in line with European labour standards, with European labour and social legislation, and to create conditions and situations in which investment in the Serbian economy and development of the Serbian economy will be encouraged. The question of all the issues of Serbia's future is whether and to what extent we will be able to encourage the development of the economy, and the development of the economy is inseparable from encouraging investment in the Serbian economy. So there are no new jobs, no exits from the crisis, no release from the mortgage of the past, unless we create a situation in which serious work and investment will take place in the next period. Only by growing investment in the Serbian economy can we, as a consequence, have a growth in social product and a rise in general social wealth. Only in such circumstances can we achieve the goal that is the goal of this government, which is to raise the standard of citizens, and above all to raise the standard of those who live from their work, and to create a situation in which we will get the income from which we and our family can live. It is simply a very simple goal and completely obvious, but it is not easy to achieve, and above all because we have a terrible economic and social heritage, which continues to pressure us. We are in 2004, this government has managed to achieve extremely good results in terms of growth in social product, growth in industrial production, and has also managed for the first time to get Serbia on the list of those countries where it can be invested. It's that famous story B+B, etc. categorization. In fact, it was sort of symbolic of the moment when we got the credit rating back and, in fact, it was the moment Serbia returned to the world. That was the moment. In such overall circumstances, the idea of this government is to create a common, favourable and more favourable situation in Serbia through legislative activity, which will be a desirable ground for foreign investment. What exactly is the measure of success of this government's work? The only measure of success in the government's work is and will be whether we will achieve further growth in investment in the Serbian economy in 2005 and, consequently, further serious growth in the social product. For the first month, it ends in January, shows that there is still a continued serious investment in the Serbian economy, through direct investment, through privatisation, and we expect greenfield investments. Everything says, this is the first month of January, that this government is on the right track and that in 2005, we can expect far greater investment growth, and that, accordingly, we can expect at least equal, if not greater social product growth in Serbia, at least equal, if not greater industrial production growth. So these are actually the conditions, these are the circumstances in which we can say, you have a perspective, this country has a perspective, you have a perspective, we all have a perspective together, because we're going a good way. In such circumstances, the labour law, which is before you, is one of the key acts that needs to achieve several goals. The first goal that the labour law needs to achieve is to create such conditions in which the world of work and the world of capital will regulate their relations through agreements and agreements, not conflicts. That's the first and the primary goal. Translated in a clear Serbian language, in a legislative language, in fact, it is an incentive to function in Serbia's system of collective agreements. That's the operationalization of this political goal. So, we want Serbia to develop in this way that in the socio-economic sphere, the world of work and the world of capital agree on all key issues, and it is not easy to agree, and when you agree, everyone has to give up something. There's no good deal in which only one party is satisfied. If only one side was satisfied, then it must have been a dictatorship, not a deal. So it is about the need that in the difficult times, which we will continue to go through, and with these, I expect, the extraordinary results we will achieve in 2005 and 2006, will still not be easy in Serbia. And it won't be easy, besides the rest, because the mortgage of the past is so heavy, so big, that whoever thinks that what's been ruining for a decade or two or three decades can change in a year or six months, he or she doesn't know what he or she's talking about or deliberately keeping people in error. So we have to understand that. We are going well, but in the period ahead, it will be very important through social dialogue, because this is a key issue, to make arrangements, and at those most sensitive and important points, after which, through relative social peace, we would succeed in transforming Serbia and giving it the European character again, which is the goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Working on this law had this political goal. In fact, the whole labour law, all its new solutions are solutions that are fully harmonised or are done as a alignment with European labour and social legislation. We're going that way. In that sense, I suppose, and we expect that most MPs of the National Assembly, regardless of political commitment, will support what is good, and I think what we are proposing here today and what we are discussing is something that is good. What do we need to do? This labour law should be seen as part of the government's overall activities to create a desirable and good socio-economic mile. You in this assembly had a chance to adopt the Law on Economic and Social Council and the Law on Peaceful Resolution of Work and collective disputes a month ago. It should be viewed as one whole. In fact, this is a continuation of this activity, and after the labour law, there will be some other laws that actually make up the whole and make up these new economic and social miles in which transitions in Serbia should be carried out. Why does it matter? Because this government believes that in fact, the most effective way to conduct a transition in Serbia is that way that assumes a social agreement. Of course, one way or another, the transition will take place in Serbia, only a matter of how long and who will pay the price. The government of the Republic of Serbia believes that this is why it is doing this, that the price should be distributed as flatly as possible to all social layers. That's what we're doing here. Starting with this idea, the law on work in the first place and doing so in several members, this could not be done to one member, of course, by laying down provisions that would encourage collective bargaining as a dominant form or form through which Serbia's profit policy would be conducted. What do we have now? We have a situation where another form or another form is dominant, and that's the form of editing profits through one-sided acts of employers. It is quite clear that if, as the owner, I should appoint you, as workers, pay, and ask you nothing, of course, that I will see that it costs me as little as possible. So, by encouraging a system of collective agreements, we actually want Serbia to overcome, as a dominant form in profit policy, collective bargaining. To achieve that goal, we have changed a dozen or more members. It's that basic idea. There's only one depression to make, so there's no misunderstanding. During the talks on the draft labour law, it was the idea to make the conclusion of collective agreements mandatory. It's a request that's completely impossible and unacceptable, for reasons why if it's a collective contract, it's created when the will is agreed upon. In itself, it is a contradiction and an adequate requirement for the conclusion to be mandatory. By the way, the only time in history when the conclusion of collective agreements was mandatory was in Stalin's Russia. I think that in itself says what it's about when such a request is made. The idea of the labour law in the work is, from Article 1 below, to encourage a system of collective bargaining. Of course that includes competent, authentic unions and competent, authentic employers' associations. Of course the state can't legally create competent unions, competent employers' associations. It's something people have to do for themselves. What we, as a government that creates macroeconomic conditions, say - here, we create conditions for you, and now you organize yourself and we are ready to talk to you and negotiate. What is very important and what seems stimulating and positive, in my opinion, is that of the number of serious foreign investors who have entered Serbia, such as. U.S. Steel and some others, in that company is a perfectly normal collective bargaining, bargaining, in fact, to run a policy of profit through collective agreements. What I'm saying is that what we're doing is just another certificate, fully in line with what are the standards of normal countries and normal companies. Those who are hohstuplers and other species, I wouldn't be talking about them right now. That's the point. It's one important thing when it comes to the labour law. Another important thing, which has caused a lot of debate in the public, and without some serious basis in fact, is a reminder and a reminder that it is possible, that it is necessary and desirable, but not necessarily, to make a certain distribution of profits in companies and in favour of employees. The idea is quite simple. The resulting profile comes from two sources. One is possession, use of capital. Another source of profit is the living work that is being invested. The idea is, since profits are made and through living work, to stimulate employees. The idea of this provision or this approach is stimulating – to encourage employees. If they know that at the end of the year, in addition to regular earnings, they are expected to receive more, depending on the profit achieved, then they will be encouraged. First, the company will feel like its own, much closer. Secondly, he will be encouraged to make an effort all year round, as he will eventually receive a reward. To be perfectly clear, such rules of the games that exist are not introduced, at the time, in normal countries and normal companies because they are good owners, because they are good people, but because they have estimated that this contributes to the efficiency of company work, that it is something that is good and for capital. So it's good for the workers too, it's good for the capital. Simply, this whole matter is something that can be new to us, but it's only new because we didn't know it. In some companies present now in Serbia, these larger foreign investors who have entered Serbia already have such a policy, as a company policy. So we're not making up anything, we're not finding hot water. We're simply making some solutions. I would like to stress immediately, and this solution is also one of the solutions that is in line with European labour and social standards, in line with certain recommendations and the EU directive. It's there too. The third important question on which I should say something is the position of the employee in relation to the responsibility for the performance of the work. Before 2001, we had one situation, you know how we had a system and regulations that went one way, and that famous story -- I can't possibly quit who doesn't work, etc. As a response, conditionally speaking, to the regulations of a socialist self - management and something similar to that burden, in 2001 a current solution was made that went back to a completely different side, in an excessive desire and overzealous zeal. What are we actually doing here? Respecting the need for market economy conditions and a well-known capital owner to not be possible and unnatural solutions from a period of socialist self-management of social property, it is also not normal and it is not necessary for us to have solutions on the other hand that may be in line with some solutions in certain non-European countries. The government proposes one solution in line with European labour standards, which makes Serbia more European, and on the other hand, which is very important, creating the necessary balance. On the one hand, it prevents employers from getting rid of the unemployed, nor does it allow people to be treated in an inappropriate way when it comes to their responsibility. That's one balance we're proposing here. What's she made up of? In a few simple things. The first thing, that an employer, when he wants to fire a worker, must give and explain the reasons. Now he doesn't have to. It's an absurd situation. It's just, if I don't like my mustache, I can kick you out, no explanation. What we're looking for is that reasoned reasons exist. Another important thing - we're looking for and we suggest to you here that between a warning that knows both the current law and the act itself, there's a five-day deadline as a minimum, a legal obligation in which a worker can try to defend himself against an employer, to state the reasons why he thinks he's wrong. In this regard, other provisions also speak of the obligation to seek opinion from the representative union, etc., but this is now another set of obligations. These are two key things compared to the current solutions that change that position. As you can see, this solution shows what we want. That's the balance. Of course, the employer can, must and should be able to free the unemployed, but on the other hand, it must be applied with a certain procedure, which allows the worker to defend himself if that employer's accusation does not stand. It's actually what we do to this law in general. The fourth important thing is the establishment of a solidarity fund. So it's a brand-new institute, as you know, in our working legislation. It is also in line with certain European solutions, certain directives, recommendations and conventions. What's the idea of this solidarity fund? It's very simple. It's not just about this period of transition over the next few years. It is an institute that is normal to exist in all market economies and normal countries. What's he got to do with it? It's one simple thing to say. Employees, when a bankruptcy procedure is opened, are also entitled under this current bankruptcy law to make certain outstanding claims deprived from bankruptcy. But what's the problem? The problem is that it will be or is a very common case that there is no bankruptcy mass. The capital is negative. There's no right to achieve it, and then there's the naked right. To remind you, the 2005 budget separates funds for this solidarity fund, not a naked right, but a real right, and the money is separate. We say - if you can't and can't fast, there can be some dispute procedure, etc., that employees make certain outstanding claims from the bankruptcy mass, we will pay out of the solidarity fund, and the solidarity fund has the right to refund later from the bankruptcy mass, if there is and how long it has been. So it's about one measure that's being taken now, so it might look like, we're doing it for transition -- no. We are doing this because of us, it is a permanent institute and it will be particularly necessary and desirable in this period of the continuation of the transition in Serbia. But he's permanently needed and desirable. The next important thing, when we talk about this draft labour law, is the issue of redecorating extra employees, the surplus institute. We've done two things here. On the one hand, we have provided for a mechanism in full compliance with a specific European directive. We didn't make that up at all. We just brought it in. And on the other hand, we've increased the level of severance, the one that now exists in the law. When it comes to the transfer of the basic solution, when it comes to the surplus procedure, what I want to point out, is that this government's policy, independent of this solution, consists of the following -- it is our idea that, when there is a surplus of workers in enterprises, what we need to do, this state, but all of us together, and the employers and those workers to whom it applies, without their activity, is also impossible to do anything. What's the idea? When the surplus appears, to exert ourselves all together to use existing resources and to actually help, as far as possible, those workers who lose their jobs, because in this company, that does not mean losing their jobs, or losing their ability to achieve existence. And the whole concept of labour law, as well as what this government is doing through the transition fund, which this year will do, like what this government is going to do through an amended social programme, will actually not close its eyes to the problem, but face the problem and solve it. So, social policy will be responsible. We don't want to calm our conscience by paying off some severance and saying goodbye. Now, after two and a half years of such a policy of relieving conscience, thousands of these people return as a social problem, but now they're out of a job. Now there's that extra, spent what little he got. So, it's a completely different concept and in the labour law that I'm talking about, the solution is that the national employment service, the employer with the excess showing up and those workers who are losing their jobs together, do everything possible not to lose their jobs, but to allow them to accomplish their existence in another job. This is the whole philosophy of this solution in the labour law and this is the entire philosophy of the government's employment policy in 2005 and 2006. It's actually going to be this government's policy. Of course, under these circumstances, we will have to look to concentrate our resources and enable that worker to have some kind of means that look like it, that they can be enough to start something serious. What kind of means are these? According to our estimates, these are funds, depending on the work to be done, between 5,000 and 9,000 euros per worker. It's some kind of means that would allow us, provided he wants us to move, to do something. Those funds need to be provided and then all of this should be viewed as a whole. Now in the social program that we're changing, we're throwing out a provision that exists now in the social programme, which is that whoever gets the funding through the social programme can't market anything from the National Service, which is an absurd solution because it makes it difficult for him to do something. So this should just add up. We have severances under the labour law, we have resources on which he has the right to the National Employment Service, we have a third source, a development fund. I simply want to inform the MPs here that special funds have been allocated under the Development Fund at the request of the Government and this ministry, which should be in office, in fact, to encourage the employment of people who will be extra. This is the whole of a new concept behind which this government stands, and I hope it will be far more successful in that area than it has ever been before. The next very important issue that has been unsettled so far is the question of the fate and position of the employee, i.e. the employment contract as an individual act and collective agreements that he has in case of changes in the employer, in case of changes in the owners of the company, and what happens to people then? Simple question, no answer now. A whole chapter in this law is dedicated to this issue and we, as far as we can, have arranged that matter. The next very important question in my opinion is the issue of a ban on discrimination on all grounds and I am taking the opportunity to mention it here. So, in accordance with European standards, we in the labour law provide for a ban on all kinds of discrimination, but not only ban, but also sanctioning any such behaviour, and at the same time, for the first time in our working legislation, we impose sanctions on sexual harassment at work, and that is also a whole new provision, a new relationship, and I think it is fully in line with the European standards and objectives of this government. The next very important thing when we talk about the labour law is the matter of sanctions. So what we have also foreseen by this bill is an important tightening of penalties for violations of the provisions of the law. To be perfectly clear, it's possible that the fines are high when you say, a million dinars for breaking the law. However, I remind you that one who does not violate the law will not be punished at all. Therefore, they are not high for those who respect the law, and for those who do not respect it should be high and should be even higher. So that's also one very important thing in this concept of ours. There's something else I'd like to say that I think is very important. We also use the creation of a new labour law and to curb work on black, as one of the important issues and objectives of this government. Of course, it's not just work on black that can be contained in the labour law. There are a whole series of measures to be taken to curb work on black, but what the labour law can do is we did and we did suggest it, and I think it's a very small thing. It's an obligation that we've provided here that the employer must deliver an employee copy of the application to mandatory social security. I think that little tiny little thing can change things significantly better in the next period when it comes to working on black, and to mention here, it's estimated that around 380,000 people are working on black in Serbia. It's a whole army of people working on black, and we have to do everything we can to make it less important. We can't eradicate it. No country can completely eradicate that, but I think we can significantly reduce in the field of labour law, so these solutions, and there are also all the facts in tax policy, all the facts with some other regulations, and these are together measures that need to achieve one of the important goals. What exactly are we going to do when we're seriously suppressing our work on black? We have several serious effects, not to elaborate them. On the one hand, we're expanding the glue of the taxpayers, which allows us to reduce the burden of the economy, and the reduction of the burden raises the competitiveness of the economy. So these are related things and I think it's important when we talk about solutions to the new labour law. What I would also like to point out is that the text in front of you is the result of half-yearly work, which was done together with the social partners, with unions, with employers' associations, and this work included talks and work with representatives of international organisations, such as representatives of the World Bank, the IMF and other institutions, and, what was very important to us in the government and this ministry, are also the consultations we had with the International Labour Organisation. You know what the MOR is, he's tripartite, not subjective, representatives of the government, employers and trade unions. Their assessment of this law was most important to us. Their assessment of this law in general is that it is "a lot better" than the law so far. So the phrase is "a lot better" and I think it's a real satisfaction for the effort we've made in half a year. Of course, I expect that through the debate that will be held here in the Assembly, as well as through the amendments, some of which we have already adopted or we believe that they should be adopted, we will still improve the text of the labour law, but it is our assessment that it is, as it is proposed, with possible corrections, optimally what can be offered at this point. And we can always say, which isn't still this or more, the law can always be better. But I think we should start with the reality that we're in, that we need to keep in mind the need to pass one valid law. The government believes this is a valid law, that this is a law that will, on the one hand, encourage work in Serbia, because one of the biggest problems in Serbia is actually reluctant to encourage this work, and on the other hand, that it will lead to labour dignity in Serbia. We simply believe, all of us in government, that only the man who feels self-esteem can be a good worker. It's an idea of dignity. So, the idea of this law is also to enable, encourage serious investment in the Serbian economy, from real investors, not suspicious types who hang around here. Real investors don't mind, but they do, and these are some political goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I expect this assembly to be able to identify them, evaluate them and that the government will receive support on the draft labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11457	I thank the minister for the exhaustive exposé of the labour law. Do the representatives of the committees in charge, want to say; the Committee on Fight and Social Affairs, Ivana Kovacevic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Toma Bushetic, SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11458	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Lalovic, the respected presidency, was passed more than three years ago by a labour law, one of the worst laws passed by the DOS government during its brief and tragic government. The labour law significantly restricts or even abolishs the number of rights of workers and all employees who until then guaranteed the Labour Relations Act, which was valid until December 2001. DOS or better say DS and its satellites did so by referring to international conventions. They said, that way we will quickly enter Europe, and today we are witnessing that we are never further away from Europe. If we are talking about some agreement between international organisations, and regarding the provisions of the Labour Act that are now in force, there were no dilemmas, there was no support of the international organisation, even the IOR said that the provisions of this law do not adequately protect all employees. It was a time when everyone raced to reach out and prove loyalty to their bosses, especially the IMF, but also other international financial organisations. To remind you, this law de facto abolished collective agreements, they became academic, and that was the most significant appetite of the working class, as it was once popular to say, and to all employees. All rights are reduced or abolished by this applicable law. Cash benefits for unemployment, severance, sick leave, paid leave, vacation leave and all in the interest and benefit of employees have been reduced. The following rights have been abolished: solidarity aid, jubilee awards, maternity leave for the third child, regression, warm meal etc. An employer’s resignation under the applicable law is possible at any time, minors if a worker or employee has a keen view of the employer, and without any protection. Simply, the labour law was and remained a feature of then-presenting and current authorities, the worst government Serbia has ever had. All that, including this law, was in the spirit of dictatorship, vassality and lies. The dictatorship when it comes to internal opportunities, vassalities when it comes to external factors, and lies because simply this law, the Labour Act was brought in with a voice from Thessaloniki. We're all witnesses and we know how it happened. The proposal for a new law is better than the current law. First of all, collective agreements have been partially returned, although we are not satisfied with these solutions because there is no direct application of the general and collective agreement and the Government is not involved in the conclusion of the agreement. Better solutions are given in the area of the exercise of the rights of employees, protection of employees and when it comes to costs of other incomes. Here, first of all, we mean solutions related to paid leave, annual vacations, protection of disabled workers. For us, it is a very important member of 35 by whom the employer is obliged to deliver a photocopy, or application to compulsory social security. You know what that's about? It's important because social security, pension and health insurance, is as important for every employee as the salary. We are witnesses today despite the strong laws, along with the severely threatened penalties, that even public enterprises do not pay contributions to health and pension insurance without talking about the private sector. The private sector, which now well overcomes, in Serbia may not yet, not only not report employees but almost regularly report them to those lowest bases. For example, if someone has a college he's registered with a high school or is always a lower expert preparing. The new area in this law is a claim in the event of bankruptcy proceedings. We consider these to be good solutions, but we have proposed certain amendments in which we have in some way improved these solutions offered by the promoter. The establishment of a Solidarity Fund is a new solution that is good. The protection of disabled workers is much better, given that in the current Labour Act, people with disabilities did not have any protection. It's just that there's a rule: it works as healthy or go outside. We are not happy with this solution because in our law there was, when it comes to the protection of disabled people, that they simply cannot be left without a job. Better solutions are also foreseen when it comes to employers' obligations in the field of education, professional training and training, as well as in the department relating to surplus staff. It is the employer's obligation to create a programme to address this problem and to establish criteria. So far, when it comes to extra employees, it's all done by the employer himself. Members 2 and 116 are important to us, but we will discuss them more in detail. Our most important observation is, regarding this bill, which collective agreements, general and special collective agreements, do not directly apply to the employer, are not binding. Secondly, a much better solution would be if the government were involved in concluding the agreement, as the government is the best guarantee that the agreement will be reached. When it comes to the employer's resignation, we believe that these solutions are not the best, that the employer's simple resignation is possible again at any time. There are no particular changes, except that points (1) and (2) are combined. It is about achieving the results of the work and the necessary knowledge. It's all re-confirmed by the employer. It is true that there are certain provisions that are related to the warning, to the opinion of the union, but that will not prevent the employer from resigning. It's the only thing that's going to slow down his activity. You know the solutions that used to be made in the Labour Law. It was a much better protection for all the employees. Although the bill is better than the current one, it is far from the law that was in force until 2001, the Labour Relations Act, which was passed and implemented during the rule of the Socialist Party of Serbia, but should be said that this bill is far from the law that the previous government, perhaps the current government, is often referred to, is the law that applies, which is in force in Western societies. For example, when it comes to Italy, France, all other countries, they are all employed and protected. When it comes to firing workers, for example I speak for Italy, it is considered legitimate only if two conditions are met. First of all, interventions must be fully justified reasons for the dismissal of workers and they most often relate to behaviour and to technological, technical and organisational changes. All of this has to be evidence. The second condition, the employer is obliged to respect the procedure that will give the worker the opportunity to challenge the discharge act. In the case of illegal layoffs, the law also provides for sanctions against the employer, which are based on the so-called ‘. the application of real protection, where the worker returns to work, or the application of mandatory protection, where the employer can choose whether the worker will return to work or suffer or pay large fines. That's how it is in all the countries of Western society. But if we compare this bill of law and the Labour Relations Act, which was in force until 2001, at the time of the SPS government, there are no such provisions, I return again, direct application of the general and collective contract. The government was a guarantee, i.e. a participant in the conclusion of the agreement. We know that the fines were in unemployed persons over 30 years to retirement or to find an adequate job. When a technological surplus is established, the severances were up to 36 salaries. There was a warm meal, a regression, a paid absence much bigger, an annual vacation and a lot of things that are not in this bill. In the end, we think this is a better solution than the current Labour Act. Nine of our amendments have been accepted, which is really progressing. I would take the opportunity to tell Minister Lalovic, he speaks very often of the mortgage of the past. The tragic past, it has been going back 50 years, but the minister should know that regardless of the credits, in all the circumstances that occurred until 1990, that in Serbia a good and good life was living, that in the 1990s it was hard to live. But many problems were imposed on us, first of all by wars, but the fact that there were no hungry people in that period and there was no layoff, which was a big deal. I think it's the task of this government to do the maximum in that direction, that there are no hungry and that the number of layoffs be reduced to a minimum number of people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11459	The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, an authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11460	The position of the Serbian Radical Party on the bill can be assumed as there are 40 amendments. The amendments we tried to sort out this bill a little bit in that concept as proposed by the government. However, our basic observation is that it is the wrong concept. It's such a wrong concept that it's the first time in a law that regulates working relationships that there's no definition - and what a working relationship is. And this existing law is extremely bad, based on some text from 1848; it was also proposed by a former union official, sworn to have the consent of the International Labour Organisation over some solutions there, and the law has a definition of what a working relationship is. This law doesn't have that basic definition. In order not to be a problem if someone now believes that a law that does not have a definition of what is governed by is not a law and that is not a practice, I must say that such an objection could not be referred to for this finding. Because there is no definition of what a working relationship is to see this government, then we have solutions that have been made, collected, that represent the partial interest of all those who have wondered about this bill. There are therefore institutes in the Bill of Laws which are not recognised among themselves, and according to the knowledge acquired from the field of labour law at any law school, it is known that these are areas that complement each other or areas that arise from each other. All of this indicates that there is no ideological view of the issue of employment. And in this principle debate of the SRS, since everything it does in politics has its own perspective, ideological views, the view of the SRS, which is based on some theory, I'm going to use this first presentation to point out these ideological procedures to better understand everything that we have objected to this law and try to correct the amendments. And make sure that this number of amendments is not even 30% of what is necessary to intervene, in order to achieve what is the position of the SRS. We'll probably agree that the working relationship is the basis, the working relationship between the employee and the employer, which is based on the employment contract. This is cited for one simple reason that there are at least three basics of acquisition. One is acquisition by capital, the other is acquisition by goods, and the third, for this law, the most important basis, is acquisition by work. The labour law regulates the work that is not a contract, because the person who offers his work on the market and his ability does not have the means to produce, and we need to enable him to gain in order to restore his psychophysical abilities, and to gain on an equal footing with others and preferably as equal as possible, as it is achieved on other grounds. This law doesn't have it, it doesn't define it, and that's why it's very hard to say why this law is even proposed. What interests were needed to satisfy such a bill. If you think it's a new government, so now you need a new law to make a discontinuity out of the previous one, in which they were all in the same government again, or if you think something needs to be corrected that is absolutely correct in this law, you're wrong. The interest being imposed here is primarily based on hiding something called a material background, which is why the law is passed. The law is needed to draw attention from all the failed privatisations so far. When the word "privatisation" is said, the first association is job loss. This is why a special institute is being introduced to address the problem of bankrupt companies, and we announced several months ago the next form of privatisation directed by the wider and narrow DOS, which is privatisation through bankruptcy. And I need that social policy to pay back the state, again the state, because privatisation in bankruptcy won't be effective. It should also be added that when I go out for this pay phone, all ministers run away. It's something amazing, it's just a maniac. I meant only the Social Democrats, and last time, I meant Well. It's just that as soon as there's a little bit of dust, it starts to talk about the essence, the rumbling. So what's our economic structure? This law could only apply to employees who work in public enterprises. For employees working in private businesses, regardless of division, whether large, medium or small, this law is inadmissible. For what? Because the employer doesn't want to know about this law. Well, he did, and he doesn't want to know about this law, because every employee of that man who owns capital in a small and medium-sized enterprise is a normal cost of business. That's how he looks at him, doesn't look at him like a working human being, who has his own needs and who has minimal human rights guaranteed, and labour-based rights, and that's why this is a failed combination. And this government is pushing the union, employees and employers to negotiate cobayages, to act as they came to the agreement of will, to reach agreement on what the price of work will be, what the profits will be, and even the extra rights of those prescribed by law in terms of collective bargaining, 90% of the privates of these small and medium-sized enterprises don't even have a union. They're not interested in the collective contract at all, they're just interested in the minimum wage provision. A minimum to pay taxes and contributions, they're not interested in anything else. This law doesn't force them, it doesn't force them, this law only unfeelingly forces employees directly or in the image of one of their unions and employers to deal allegedly. What are they talking about? Will there be protection at work? The law must contain all the provisions. To negotiate their annual vacations, no agreement can be made on annual vacations, as the annual vacation is a right prescribed by both the Constitution and the conventions of the International Labour Organisation, but this government is forcing everything into negotiations, and it will not force itself to be a participant in the general collective contract, although it may be the largest employer. The biggest employer, not only because of these people who work in the state service, but also an employer because of those who work in public enterprises, but the state doesn't want to, this government doesn't want to get into it. No, if you don't reach a collective contract, you don't reach an agreement, you don't agree, then the employer can adopt a rule on working with limited time. So they have to make a deal. Now that those agreements and negotiations are over, then as any party has passed, the state is not interested. They're absolutely not interested. You saw for yourself about bankruptcy and excess, this government only returned nine months back. Why? Since she was elected, the law was passed in October, you cut nine months, matches the date when this government was elected. What was before is not the subject of interest. So we're in the field of how to make it possible for a citizen to gain and respect his rights based on work. Look at the bill, see the members, so tell me if you have any guarantees for those rights and obligations, don't forget our obligations. You have no guarantee. I don't want to talk about the overemphasizing role of social partners. It's a new term. Like, now, the question of human rights is a matter of social partners' agreement. I don't know where that idea came from, I don't know where someone's idea of passing through the law the right to negotiate, even though it's known they can't agree in advance, because they're conflicting interests. A law that should appear as a minimum under which it must not go, appears as a weak literary reading. This government tried to solve something in article 48. Look what they've come up with. It's a contract on the rights and obligations of the director. When you read that article, you'll see that it's actually not a management body, which would have to be under the company law, but it's an employee. An employee who's not in the same position with other employees. Why did they even regulate this area, I don't understand it, and if they'd regulated the situation, that someone who's employed in the firm was elected director, so that his work contract rests, because his rights are regulated by a special contract between the director and the board of directors, I might understand that. Here a man is employed as director, he becomes an organ of one firm's management. He comes forward in the name of the employer in the negotiations. He closes the labor contract, puts it in the same basket as all those who work, and starts from a porter at the entrance to a top master on an electronic machine. That's unacceptable. The director can't be in the same basket as the employees. He may also have to be similar to his rights, but he can't statusally, because he's in a special contractual relationship that he's got the right to run the firm because the owner of the capital has authorized him to do so. It's all messed up here, grandmothers and frogs. The employee is talking to the other employees. As an employee, I represent the employer, the owner of the capital, and I express his will in negotiations with the employees, and when it's over, I'm supposed to be the same as the employee. He can't do that tossing. I'm just stating this as a bright example of major failures. What is the legal nature of the solution referred to in Article 277? It is a contract to regulate each other's rights, obligations and responsibilities. What is the legal nature of this contract. She doesn't exist. It doesn't exist at all, and it's not clear. Furthermore, here we see in reason, the motion for the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111 is called and is often referred to, but let's say, from Articles 18 to 23. The bill, it's the most pronounced and I don't understand what a brilliant mind could have come up with in Article 21. If you SDP people need to make these things potent, I don't know, endangerment, what was in your party, you have a criminal procedure. There is a court, there are crimes. This is no place in this law. Why would you in the labour law now regulate something you called sexual abuse? It's a responsibility under the general rules. Why would this be a specificity of working relationship; endangering the body of a person and any discrimination, it is punishable under general rules. Why do you like to bring him down with your political attitude? In that sense, you have Article 19(2) and says, indirect discrimination. Does anyone know what that is? Apparently a neutral provision, so come find me someone from the union or an employee who will interpret what you wrote. A seemingly neutral provision, indirect discrimination, and in all of that, for example, we have lost our activity that is harmful to the security of the state, but what your membership is interested in has won a primate. It is similar in Article 23. Protection against this discrimination, and only the right to compensation for damages, and I suppose no measure is taken to eliminate discrimination, an act of discrimination. It's written from the hills of the valley, like you've translated a bad text from a Brussels official. In article 33, you lost your working contract form. There's a need to prescribe a work contract form, so it's not colorful from company to firm, at least so far, that's how it's been. Now you've lost it, it's gone, it's not interesting. If we were to move on, and not skip these permutations of places and concepts, it's a minor constant phenomenon in this bill, and with terms it's not handled, because it's probably a bad translation that makes it its own. The deadlines you've been setting, I don't know what motivated you, if you thought in such a way that effective protection of work and working relationships is provided, I have to tell you that you've made a mistake, it's not available. And you still have the one about peaceful dispute resolution, we'll see about that, but I doubt it'll be anything. This new chapter you have inserted, which is a commitment under the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which concerns the rights of employees in changing employers and is not so bad, but it is obvious that whoever wrote this bill did not follow the provisions of the Business Society Act. You listed here as the reason for applying these provisions, status changes and changes in the employer. Consider all the modes that can be when the employer changes and whether some changes mean changing the employer. It does not mean that any change in the employer's own structure implies changing the employer. You'd have to be much more specific here, because this is how you can cause a dispute, and above all the relation between employees and those who think they're not the new employer, and maybe they're the new employer, because there's no such criteria here. We can't vote for a bill like this. It's not the biggest commercial for this bill that's worse than the existing law. If it's the only good part of this law, then we really need to imagine what we're doing. This law cannot answer even the moment we are at, but this law carries another big stain, which does not give any perspective to work, gain by work and protect the rights of all those who work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11461	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is anyone else answering for a word from the authorized representatives or the heads of Parliament clubs? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Zivkucin, authorised representative of the SP-NS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11462	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal of an extremely important system law, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which should legally regulate the relationship between employers and employees, a law that has been prepared for more than six months and on which the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat Affairs has indeed worked in a way that has respected numerous suggestions, numerous proposals from various stakeholders present during the drafting of this law. In fact, the endless engagement of the present minister and his patience have been led by really intense talks, agreements and negotiations with one and the other representative union, talks, agreements and negotiations with employers' associations and contacts and talks with representatives of the International Labour Organisation have been held. The result of all this is the fact that today we have a very good law, much better than that which is currently in force. He will, in the coming days, hopefully, be replaced here by one, by a general assessment, by a very bad law, which was passed in 2001 and which, we know in which way and under what circumstances, adopted and voted. Therefore, this law creates an ambience in which both employees and employers can be sure that their relationship will be well regulated, that their rights and obligations in the employment relationship will be well protected and that they will be able to access the negotiation and negotiation provided for by this law. What does this law predict? It provides that employers and employees are agreeing on a way in which the end of their negotiations, the end of their agreements, will coronate with a collective contract, a contract of work, or, in the event that no collective contract is signed, they will temporarily define it by a labour rule, which will be in force until a final agreement is reached between employers and employees and until the final agreement is finalised by signing a collective agreement. Therefore, this law respects and contains all European Union directives concerning this area, contains suggestions and recommendations from the International Labour Organisation, when it comes to this area governed by this labour law. This law, in fact, improves the negotiation, alignment of the interests of employees and employers, and does so by improving the achievement of agreements and signing a collective labour contract. This law is also a good basis for improving social dialogue, therefore it is a good basis for meeting both interests, therefore, both employers and employees. The law regulates mutual rights and obligations in 285 members, many more members than the law currently in force, which means that this law is very precise and decadently governing the rights and obligations of employees and employers. This law has this advantage that it will receive in the beginning and receive the epithet of a much better, incomparably better law than the one currently in force. Progress is obvious, progress is great. We really have no reason not to seriously consider today this law and, I believe, very quickly in this congregation and adopt it. When it comes to the rights and obligations of employees and employers, then we need to say a few important things about this law. This law prohibits any kind of discrimination, whether it rests on a religious, national, full or any other basis. This law provides that employees, in the event of any grounds of discrimination, have the right to seek protection in court. In that case, the costs incurred as a result of the conduct of the proceedings fall under the employer's burden. This law also regulates the rights of workers in the event of a change in the company's status in which he works: in the case of the sale of a company, in the case of separation of a company from a larger continent in which the worker was employed until then. In that case, this new employer has, here it is stipulated by law, the obligation to respect a general act signed between the employer and the employees, for at least one year or until the time of the general act. Therefore, the continuity of the exercise of employment rights is ensured in the event of a change of status or separation of the firm from the former larger firm. This law also established the right of employees when defining surplus employees. What does that mean? It means employees have the right to protection in that case. The employer is obliged, under the proposal of this law, to submit his proposal to the National Employment Organisation for the establishment of surplus employees for the purpose of determining the extra staff. Therefore, the employer is obliged in this case to define the social programme measures for those workers who, under the proposal of the programme, will remain surplus. It is fully protected by the right of employees to, and in the event of being defined as an surplus, retain their rights and be fully protected. In the event of bankruptcy, therefore in the event of the company's collapse, this law defines workers as having the right to compensation. Some average value was taken. The European Union's suggestions were that the compensation could range from three to 18 average personal incomes. The bill states that the employee, in the event of company bankruptcy, is entitled to compensation of 9 average monthly earnings, with the fact that if the company is not able and unable to pay it, then this law provides for the establishment of a solidarity fund, a state fund, which will do so, which will pay the employee of these 9 personal incomes, and then the state will find ways to compensate from the bankruptcy mass, to refund what it paid to the worker who remained on the street for the bankruptcy of the company in which he worked until then. What's also good in the bill of this law is that, practically, the work on black is reduced significantly, because under this law, the employer is obliged to hand a photocopy of compulsory social security to the employee. It means he's obliged to prove that his employee has been reported and that the worker is not working in black. What is also good in this law is the fact that the employer is obliged to account for the employee's earnings, even if they are not paid. This makes it much easier and shortens the subsequent possible court procedure, which determines how much the employer's obligations stemmed from the fact that he did not pay what he was obliged to pay, in case it did. (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes, thank you. This law also defines the right of employees to have, at the end of the year, the right to share and to gain at the end of the year, in the event that the company is doing well, they have the right to contribute accordingly. Without a doubt, it's about something worth it and what needs to be supported, especially when it comes to protecting the rights of workers, the rights of employees. Thus, in the department of night work, no employee can be assigned to night work if it will harm his health and pre-deployment to night work, it is mandatory to consult a representative union, which so far has not been. Furthermore, significant protection of pregnant women is visible and significant protection of persons with disabilities in this bill. Everything that was necessary, and what was missing in the valid version, is defined here and very precisely arranged. We must also say that the law is good as an ambience, as creating a legal environment for something called mutual rights and the obligations of employers and employees. But, of course, the labour law will not solve many other important things. In order for the labour law to regulate the rights and obligations of employees and employers, both employees and employers must have work to do. That is why this law is important, because it is balancedly respecting, respecting needs and employees and employers. He doesn't reject the foreign capital that we need so badly to launch production here in our country. Klatno is not being transferred to either side too much, which was the case with a still valid law, which was discussed by the minister in his opening statement and spoke. So this law is equally satisfied with both employees and employers, or they are equally dissatisfied with each other. When that's the case, then we can assume it's really about good law. The government has made an effort to prepare a quality law for us, but I must say that many things the state also has to settle, which do not concern this law. For example, I have been asked to speak publicly for the Assembly speaker today about the sufferings, the difficult many-year-old problems of workers at the Karadjordjevo Military Institute, not far from Backa Palanka. So about 460 employees at the Karadjordjevo Military Institute have been on their own for several years. The state, i.e. the military does not care at all about the Karadjordjevo Military Institute, or the employees of the Karadjordjevo Military Institute. Of the formerly model military facility, of the formerly model state goods, with 4,600 hectares of farmed land, of which 800 hectares are under the bay system, with over 2,800 hectares of forest, with a hero farm, cow farm, sheep farm, ergel, slaughterhouse, hunting, forestry, catering, all of this is now parked, abandoned, rooted, none of it, this once representative, huge complex in the heart of Vojvodina, does not account for, all this destruction, and the workers, the 460, are on the verge of misery, ruined, no existence, the last salary received in 2002. I draw attention to what is not regulated by this law, but what certainly the state must take care of very quickly and responsibly, as these people do, because they are employed, but this law does not define it, but they are our fellow citizens, they are employees, they do something, they do things, they do things, and they cannot support their family. This is a subject that, I'm sure, must be dealt with very quickly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, the law that is ahead of us is a quality, significant, substantive, defines the good rights and obligations of employees and employers, without a doubt much more quality and no doubt that its quality will raise and eventually adopt some of the amendments that will be in the individual debate on the agenda; the law of the Serbian Parliament's Movement of Reconstruction - New Serbia will give support, we will vote for it, convinced that we are thus creating a good legal environment and thus helping to ensure a good definition of each other's rights and obligations for employees and their employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11463	I thank the People's MP Free Zivkucin. The word is from MP Jovan Palalic, the authorised representative of the DSS. Here you go, Mr. Palalyc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11464	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no doubt that there is one of the most important system laws that will be passed by this National Assembly in front of us, by its importance to a large number of citizens and the consequences of their existence. We can say that, after the adoption of the Labour Law in 2001, which was in full agreement with the performance and vision at the time, that the transition to Serbia should look like, expectations on the part of capital owners, employers and on the part of employees are failing. The very fact that the law was passed, with such provisions, was undoubtedly one shock for millions of employees in Serbia, following those rights that they had under the 1992-1996 Labour Relations Act. The drastic reduction of these rights, strengthening the employer's position in this relationship and the contract that was concluded, have created impedience and dissatisfaction, and we can say depression in a large number of employees. Although it was likely that at the time of the adoption of the labour law in 2001, the capital world, that owners, employers, were satisfied with the solutions that were then established, proved not to be so. Unmotivated, unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory, reluctant, strike, employees who had been hung over their heads by solutions from Article 101 of the Law, still valid Labour Act, the inability to receive any information and reasons why it was done, certainly did not contribute to a good working atmosphere, greater motivation, greater labour performance and the desire to show corporate loyalty and stronger corporate culture in companies in Serbia. Just yet in force, the Labour Act, an extremely non-liberal law, I believe will be the end of a vision, of a privatisation, of a transition that did not respect the legacy of this state, of a social moment and did not respect the real interests of the employees. That's why the great attention of a large number of our citizens is now focused precisely on today's debate. When compared to the current Labour Act and the proposed Labour Law, there is no doubt about those solutions which are of the vital interest of employees, which is a question of establishing a working relationship, the question of the rights to be achieved during a working relationship, and ultimately the questions of the right of employees to cancel work contracts, the proposed labour law is a significant improvement. In establishing a working relationship, by completing a labour contract, it is good that the issue of non-discrimination is highlighted and potent. It was regulated in a still valid law by only one member and thus the legislator showed his relationship with this issue. What is also important is that the issue of data being provided when establishing a labour contract, disabling shagging when it comes to it, is now clearly foreseen by this bill, and only those data and those beliefs needed to establish a working relationship with the labour contract are now being delivered. As for the rights that an employee achieves during a working relationship, there is no doubt that they are improved. So when we received and rewarded we had one situation, I mean the current labour law, where there was no obligation at all to pay certain fees, and even death benefits. It was not mandatory to pay compensation when the pensioner retired, but was left to regulate other acts by the employer. Now it's a particular obligation of the employer. A minimum number of vacation days have been increased and other issues, which remained more or less unsaid by the current labour law, are now improving. So the issues of employee protection are much stronger here. Some of the solutions that are now potential here, when it comes to the cancellation process, I mean the labor contract, there's no doubt that there's progress in relation to the current labour law. Of course, it's not that disciplinary procedure anymore, two stages, which we've had legally working relations, although the question of two degrees is always present, and then it's potent and there's been an open discussion about whether an unconstitutional provision is to abolish the right to appeal, but I wouldn't want to open the topic for this speaker right now. The fact is that in the current Labour Act, the way the defined warning question was really humiliating for the employees. The literally employer was able to deliver one warning in two sentences, just to satisfy the form, and the real reasons for cancelling the labor contract had no place to point out. It was precisely a fundamental threat to employees and a fundamental grudge to the law. We now have a very clear procedure, where this warning must contain facts and circumstances that suggest possible reasons for the cancellation of the labour contract, and even create the possibility that, despite this warning, work contracts should not be cancelled, but that this warning should be considered as the last warning, if the law is further violated and the reasons for the cancellation of the labour contract are obtained. I think this is quality progress in relation to this solution that really in the current law created tensions between employees and employers, and then employers, I speak out of practice, because I had the opportunity and as a lawyer to deal with work disputes, ignore other obligations that the Labour Law had, and that was paying off unpaid earnings, the payment of contributions, and then we had a whole complicated procedure with labour inspectors who intervened, stopped those solutions from being executed, created unnecessary tension, and simply all of this contributed to a bad atmosphere. Of course, the issue mentioned here is the protection of employees who stop the need, i.e. Excess staff. I can say that the very fact that the proposed labour law obliges the employer to establish clear criteria when establishing excess employees, there is no doubt that progress has been made in relation to the current solution, where the obligation has not been made. So, I'm not talking about the fact, and these are precise and mandatory communications with union representatives and the National Employment Service. The question that has always tangled employees is one of the most sensitive issues, in addition to this disciplinary responsibility, which is, as was once said, the second-place deployment. Now this is a question, I think, much more precisely and much better arranged, and some reasons for moving out of the employer's seat here are very specific, and I think this is really progress compared to the solutions that we had in the existing Labour Act. In fact, such provisions and such reasons for the conclusion of an annex to the labour contract we didn't even have, so when we look at these three aspects, the establishment of a working relationship, the rights within the duration of the working relationship and the cancellation of the employment contract, there is no doubt that the solutions we have in the proposed law are progress and there is no doubt that it will also contribute to the creation of a good atmosphere in companies, so here I mean more motivation of employees, to good co-operation with employers, much more than we had in the current Labour Act. We have some new institutes that are proposed by the labour law. I think they really guessed, the legislator guessed the moment those institutes were supposed to predict here. The right of employees to claim from bankrupt companies is mentioned. There is no doubt that the law on bankruptcy proceedings, and it was adopted sometime in May or June, had the intention and tendency to regulate the situation in Serbia's economy and there is no doubt that the issues of the liquidity of certain enterprises will be opened in the coming period. As a result, they do not have to suffer employees, who have worked with certain rights and rights to certain incomes. It is important that when the state regulates a single area to the end and I think that these rights and the establishment of the Solidarity Fund of the States are on the trail of these solutions, because the endless enforcement procedures that are taking place, therefore, when employees after going to bankruptcy are trying to settle their claims, especially when most businesses have not paid or contributed, when this is a whole mess, and for a large number of such businesses, and a large number of such procedures is literally a sharp criticism in such situations mainly going towards the state. So, not according to the company, not to the director, who brought the company into bankruptcy, but to the state, exactly, the state, I say, at the right moment intervenes with these solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11465	Are you using another ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11466	Yeah. There is no doubt that the state showed a sense of the moment in which the economy and transition of Serbia are located when it envisioned those solutions concerning the rights of the employee after the change of ownership and the employer. We have had, in the present period, the extreme arbitral behaviour of the new owner, whom nothing has committed, who simply violated contracts, collective agreements and contracts on work that he encountered when he arrived, when he took ownership of the company, and I think that now the state has shown responsibility and seriousness in the transition process, predicting these solutions. That this law is good and is in some way binding the interests of employers and employees is speaking exactly the part of this law that regulates the issue of professional training and education. The labour law has almost not touched the issue, and it is precisely the fact that it is necessary for employers and companies to have an employee who is ready at all times to respond to the challenges and tasks facing him, that his continued and permanent training is necessary to bring profit for the employer, these rights and obligations here are very explicitly stated and that, in my opinion, is one of the good things that is regulated in this law. Let's not say we're reintroducing a supplemental work institute, which is good. This is one of the solutions that we had in previous legislation, which was abolished by the Labour Act, but it should simply be welcomed, because in the previous period it produced good results and was not much disputed. All in all, when a general analysis of this law is made, I think it will be welcomed by both employees and employers. As I said, although at the time of the adoption of the Labour Act in 2001, employers seemed to have received exactly what they wanted, without motivated, without being engaged, without being satisfied and without an employee, who is truly seeing his company as the second house to which he wants progress, which he wants to improve and in which he wants to actively show all his potential, there is no realisation of those interests that the employer wants, which is to strengthen the company and make a profit. I just believe that this law binds on one good basis these two interests and, in that sense, the DSS will support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11467	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? The word is made by MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11468	Dear fellow Members and fellow MPs, Mr Minister, when it comes to the adoption of this law, the Democratic Party calls for extreme caution. And not only when this law was passed, but also when all laws were passed in areas that were deeply destroyed and disturbed in one difficult and devastating time, when our society and state were faced with a series of temptations, which we also partly blamed for the misunderstood understanding of reality and political determinations. One of these areas is certainly an economy, seriously threatened by the fact that in the late 1980s, and especially in the 1990s, it was not possible to accompany technological progress, keep markets, be restructured, in order to be able to participate in the global distribution of labour and markets and be competitive there at all. The following followed by sanctions, war facts, severe tragedies, nematines, clashes with NATO, terrible inflation, and even loss of sovereignty, temporary loss of sovereignty in the part of our territory. There was no power, there was no power, there was no gas, the shelves were empty, etc. October 5th marks the turning point and the accumulated problems begin to get answers. However, among those who have participated in the changes over the last four years there is no agreement on the key elements of our next trip. You don't really know who's for who or what policy anymore. We mostly know who we don't love. I purposely use the term we do not like, thus showing all the absurdity of the political principles on which our political life rests. But to go back to the law itself. He's opening up more for us a little bit more controversial questions. The first question is whether at this point we need deregulation and a more flexible labour market or the opposite. We believe that we must be careful, because the additional regulation encourages the grey economy, with all the negative consequences that its presence entails, always essentially imposes higher costs on the employer, negatively affecting investment and thus increasing employment. I fully agree with Mr. Minister that our cludent, as Mr. Minister described, has gone to one side a little more than it should have. That's what we all brought here together. There are few MPs here who didn't vote for that law at the time. At the very least, the party to which Mr. Minister belonged was part of the ruling coalition in 2001. However, it seems to me that some of the provisions in this law are going in the direction of excessive regulation. The state can and must take care of the welfare of its employees. In this segment, I fully support the elements of this law, but the state must bear in mind that the unemployed have certain rights and a need for employment. This specifically refers to a country where the unemployment rate is 30%; of course, it's statistical, official; probably 20%, if we take how many people work in what we call the gray economy. There are over 900,000 unemployed in absolute numbers. It is a good thing that this legislation has received a positive position from the World Bank, the International Labour Organisation and that it complies with European directives. When it comes to European directives, we must bear in mind that countries where unemployment is not to this extent expressed the problem. We often have a non-critical attitude towards Western vuses, which is actually determined by our daily-political needs. When those oatmeals suit us, we'll take them as an argument, and when they don't respond, we'll normally ignore them. Our gross social product is only 17 billion euros, and the rate of economic growth that we need in the coming years would be far greater than 5%. Comparative data show that in the early 1990s countries in our environment had as much as 10 and 11% growth and that in 2007 we would be able to service our debts something more serious we must change in our society, in our economy, in our overall system. Our total debt at this point is over 9.5 billion euros. That's why when we pass every law, our thinking must be focused on our perspective, and it must be based on our reality. One of the elements of this reality is the fact that last year the amount of investment in Serbia was only 480m euros, and we can say that 300m of it is from privatisation, agreed direct investment from 2002 and 2003. On the other hand, in Serbia, the level of these investments was 1.8 billion euros in 2003. Now, to be clear, I'm not saying this to do any kind of comparatively, because I don't think that such a method of discussion will bring us anywhere when we talk about this law, but simply to point to the economic trends that are worrying us at this point. So, in general, the law has a number of good solutions, especially if we are looking at the text itself, isolated from the ambience in which it should be applied, but our abstention, the abstention of our parliamentary group on the subject of this law precisely defines a concern for the position of the unemployed, and we especially stress, the prospects for investment, economic growth, employment and, of course, all of this leads to a rise in living standards. In the discussion of the details, we will explain a number of our amendments, which we wanted to point to certain illogicalities, as well as certain solutions that we believe could have been better formulated, but we will not enter into an attempt to change the essential idea, respecting the fact that we once together passed the law, as my predecessor said, in certain circumstances appropriate to the vision then, to the opportunities then, to Serbia's position, which was sort of a hit. Of course, we're not anymore, it's been years, and we're not accusing anyone of that. We won't try to change the essence, you're the government, you're responsible for what you're doing, and we'll vote with abstention. Since I have time, I just have to look back at a little thing that, unfortunately, we missed when you submitted the amendment, which you mentioned here and which I want to draw your attention to. These members are members from 18 to 21 and later, Article 272. I think it's unnecessary for this whole process to be inserted into Article 21, I agree that it should exist, you're absolutely right, there should be a ban on such improper behaviour, but for members 18, 19 and 20 of the burden of proof is normally on the economically strong side, and that's where we all agree. There are situations where the burden of proof is on the economically strong side and those provisions of Article 272 can apply to members 18, 19 and 20. It's discrimination, and it needs to prove to the economically strong side that there was no discrimination, but we can't do this situation with regard to harassment, sexual abuse, insults, to apply this principle, especially because I think there's one part of the crime that is just consummating this issue, this area, and I don't think it's just from the point of view of the technique that's been put into this law. Of course, we will speak more in detail, that is, when we explain our amendments, but the colleague who first spoke about this law mentioned the previous rule, which most of us here were present and did, which is in 2000, and in 2001 exactly, so he says, was short and tragic. It won't be tragic, there weren't hundreds of thousands of refugees during that reign, there weren't thousands and thousands of dead, disabled, maimed, there was no bombing, there were no sanctions, there were no murders.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11469	Work relations are on the agenda, not wars. When the wars come, we'll talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11470	I can see that this has affected you, but I would really ask that, in the follow-up to this discussion, we do not return in this way to the previous rule, because then we will continue to open the question of what was and when was and what was guilty, and in particular to the question of bringing responsibility to a political group for any solution, because only three years ago we sat here together, together we have passed some laws, and together on October 5th, we have just torn down those for whose rule Mr. Bushetic was likely to say that it was tragic. Unfortunately, it was not short enough, and this tragedy was deepened. Second, Mr. Bushettic, I don't have a boss, I know about the party that called its president boss, and that's your party and your problem, but don't transfer that complex to us. We don't have any bosses, we deal with politics the way we think it's the best, we don't insult you, but you obviously can't refrain from insulting DS every time you go out. If you think that's how you're going to reduce DS ratings or explain your potential for citizens to vote for you tomorrow, I think you're wrong. Try to offer concrete solutions to the future, to what awaits us, and certainly not to us a very pink future. Try it that way... (President: Mr. Markovic, are you using another 10 minutes? )......................................................................................................... Not at each other's expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11471	Thank you. The replica was reported by MP Toma Busetic, and I ask the MPs not to be so sensitive, because when it comes to the new law, they must also talk about the relation to the old law. It's impossible to talk about a new one, not compare it to the previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11472	Mr. Milan Markovic when he said she was not a tragic authority and short of right. The government was short, the government was tragic, the biggest robbery in Serbia took place just under DS rule. They sold thousands of companies because they left several hundred thousand people out of work, with no hope at all, passed laws that were truly tragic, because they disbursed all employees, unemployed, pensioners – pensioners are now on the beggar stick, because the average pension is 60% of the average wage – and a number of other solutions brought by the government, where it was dominant. And when it comes to the '90s, they keep saying, the DS guys, that there were wars, that there were bombings. It was all true. The wars have all been imposed on us, but they can't remember that. The wars in these areas began in Slovenia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia Muslim, and all under the auspices of Western countries, and above all Germany and the Vatican. And the role of the DS was extremely dishonest, including their president, and you know who called for the bombing, which has been top-notch with all these democratic forces. It was all DS. They never, even before, said a word of justification for the events of the 1990s, ever attacked the Croats for "Blash" and "Storm", never attacked Muslims for "Marcals" and the street of Vase Miskina, never attacked the Shiptars and those who funded the Shiptars, and financed by the American administration. We're watching The Hague. It's all clear. We were bombed for the humanitarian disaster of the Shipar. It wasn't even a humanitarian disaster. You know that disaster only came when NATO started bombing. They bombed us for the endangered human rights of the Shipar. Were human rights threatened? No, they're not. It's all true, but DS and its protagonists and its MPs will never admit it, and time is the best judge and time will show that we were right. When it comes to the SPS and that hard time, I just want to repeat that there were no hungry people, and now there is. Unfortunately, even though there was no dismissal, this government did not do much to protect it. All the laws were better, there were no layoffs, it was hard, but you know what made it hard. Not our fault. We just delayed the agony that happened after October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11473	It's a business thing. I apologize to MP Ivana Kovacevic, but you'll have to look after the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11474	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Bushetic has nothing to say but to tell lies in the absence of arguments. We all know the truth about the bombing, we all know what it is and whose role it was to bomb, and we all know what it was and whose role it was in the downfall and death of this people during the 1990s. Should I remind you that the most cheerful program, almost New Year's Eve, on your television, Mr. Bushetic, was when the columns of refugees were bombed by Croatian planes, refugees from Knin. It was a happy program, if someone who happened to be hooked up to television, if there wasn't news of Studies "B" and "B92," they wouldn't even know what was going on with our people, they wouldn't even know there was a genocide going on over our people. It was your authority, you knew how to use it only before the election campaign, like when you filmed us importing weapons into Croatia. You are recording the import of weapons into Croatia, to explain to us that the opposition is no good in Serbia. That's what you've been doing, replacing thesis, using people's misfortunes to stay in power, and I'm going to use the arguments, and you've said a series of false things here. This is what we have brought, and what you have left behind. We brought this: average earnings in Serbia increased from 2000 to 2003 by 3.1 times, to cover minimum consumer baskets, that's what you say about hungry, minimum consumer baskets, food, drinks and services, these for existence, for a four-member family, which are less and less thanks to your successful rule, in September 2000 it was necessary to single out 2.1 of net earnings then. We left this Serbia after our government so it took less than one average net profit for that consumer basket. What did you bring? What did we bring? Well, at the time of your government to buy a TV, it took five and a half months to work. When we left one salary was enough to buy a refrigerator, and people didn't change the stoves for 15 years during your successful government. During your government, it was five salaries to buy a stove, and after our government, one salary to buy a stove. The washing machine walks on and off pay to buy, and after our reign, 1.6 salaries to buy. The car for 84 months was supposed to work, not eat, not drink and live on the street to buy "Yugo".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11475	What does that have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11476	It doesn't matter, because the gentleman was telling lies, and I know that you, too, Mr. Angelkovic, are in pain...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11477	To which member of this you called that the injured Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, are using a violation of the Rules of Procedure for discussion. Please let me...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11478	Mr. Angelkovic, does it really hurt this much? I thought since you've been reading Socrates, you've had more tolerance for political inexperience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11479	I've been listening to you for three minutes, and that's tolerance. In the third, I have to tell you that you're violating the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11480	As far as privatisation is concerned, Mr. Bushettic, all you've said here is false. You've been in power for nine months. Where are your big criminals? Where are your powers that have been robbed, as you say. Why don't you arrest someone? As long as you're talking about thieves, criminals, criminals, is that all you can offer this people? It's the only one. You can't offer anything but slander. Mr. Busetic, thanks to you and your partners in this country, Serbia has nothing, no value, I end up with, no institution...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11481	You're using my tolerance too much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11482	... which wasn't dragged through the mud. If we did it to ourselves, and first of all, if you did it to us, why do you expect us to be better than what we are? We're... (President: Mr. Markovic, four minutes have passed. ....................................................................................................... and moved in a positive direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11483	Mr. Markovic, it's been four minutes. Toma Busetic has a business after the break, and by the way, the criminals are told by Beba Popovic, not Toma Busetic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11484	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. Since 133 MPs are present on official record, I would like to begin by establishing a quorum. I find that by applying the electronic system, there are enough MPs to work. The word will be given by Ivana Kovacevic, as an authorised representative, and before that remains a replica from before the afternoon session, Mr. Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Markovic, it is true that the average salary rose three times after 5 October, but it is true that prices have increased ten times. The power has accumulated ten times, municipal services have accumulated ten times, so today we can say that 100 marks in our time have been worth more than 300 euros today. With average salary and average pension, it is hard today to settle the most necessary needs, just paying for utility services, electricity, bread and most essential foods. On the other hand, it's not true that in all ten years it's been a bad life. It's true that it was hard to live. One very important piece of information, for example, in 1997 and 1998 was a larger gross social product than all the years from 2001 to today. If we did survey, a large number of people would say that it was better to live in all these difficult conditions before October 5th than after October 5th. Who today lives well or solidly and all these years after 5 October – people who are in power, people who are close to the authorities and around the government. The mass of the population, so to speak, lives in great misery. When it comes to privatisation itself, we still say that privatisation was a robbery, that many companies sold out for a living, that the new owners sold 10% of the capital and settled everything they paid for, and sold those 90% of the huge millions in their pocket. Why isn't there any processing of all these acts? Most likely because the presidents of the court are all members of the DS. If that changes, the question is whether all these applications will continue to be held in the drawers of the president of the courts or judges at all. What we want to underline again when it comes to the relationship to the NATO Pact, never the DOS, should never have said that NATO committed aggression, but that it was a bombing, that it was an intervention. What did we get for that vassality? It's literally nothing. Has anything in the international community changed since October 5th? Nothing. Are we in a better position in Kosovo and Metohija? It's not. In the common state? It's not. So all things should be called a real name. (President: Time. ) Transferring that we were arming some paramilitary formations, and paramilitary formations are not just any of us arming. We helped our people through the Drina, and the paramilitary formations that were in Croatia we could not prevent anything. It's just that some other people, first of all Croats, were in charge of the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11486	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11487	I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because I believe that falseness is a violation of the reputation of this parliament, but I hope that my colleague Bushetic and I will end up with this series of replicas and answers. I just want to say that I totally agree that we're discussing arguments and discussing what statistics say, what numbers say. I don't think we can be wrong about that. The truth is, I have to tell you that foreign exchange reserves have increased 20 times in three years. I'm talking about when you handed over power to us. You handed over the government with 300 million dollars, in 2003 we're still handing over the government with $3.5 billion in foreign exchange reserves. As for gross national product per capita, it has been increased three times. In 2000, it was $855, and when we handed over power to those who are now in power, it was $2,550. I do not fully agree with your assessment of privatisation, and I believe that the answer can also be given by the current authority, of which you are a participant. The fact that you said that the presidents of the court are close to the DS, I'm responsible for telling you that that is not true, and neither the presidents of the court have anything to do with the prosecution. Of course, you know that's what the D.A.'s responsible for. It's a basic knowledge of law. We disagree on the way we discuss this speaker. I asked you, in addition to insults and falseness, what you as a political party offer to the citizens of Serbia. We as a political party offer Serbian citizens all of what we have cited during these nine months as opposition, and you do all the time insinuating political indifferences. There's an important difference between the SPS and the DS. The DS will continue to offer its vision of Serbia. Of course, every other political organisation has the right to do so, but there is no DS, no SPS, and no one else to base their political engagement on insult and false conduct.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11488	Mrs. Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11489	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, let's get back to the subject. We are facing today a draft labour law, which will support the G17 Group plus. As for the law, first of all, I would like to say that this law is in line with the European Union directives, as well as with the recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. What we have much more precisely defined in this law is the rights and obligations of both employers and employees. This labour law is, in some ways, a balance between employees and employers. Of course, some parts of the law could have been better solved. That is why the G17 Plus parliamentary group submitted certain amendments. Of course, there will be more details about them. Some of them have already been adopted by both the government and the parent committee. However, when the day is due for the vote, I hope that an amendment that speaks of redistribution of working time will be adopted. According to the new law, redistribution can take place within six months, and the amendment I am talking about leaves the possibility for employers who have already agreed on jobs, so all companies that would be prevented from fulfilling their contractual obligations, to redistribute their working hours within a year. What I see as key provisions in this law is a ban on discrimination; these are better developed provisions concerning collective bargaining and collective agreements; then, protection of employees in changing employers or ownership of a company and protection of employees in the event of bankruptcy. First of all, I would like to highlight the provisions concerning the prohibition of discrimination. All of us daily, as we list the newspaper, better say the advertisements, we can notice how often competitions for jobs seem. So it's common to look, apart from profession, language skills, computer work and, what we can see very often, it's a definition that the age is maximum of 35 years, most of the time it says so. I respect all the needs of employers to be more suited in some cases by younger people, because of nature after, but I am also convinced that very often this is not justified and that it is purely discrimination based on age. In developed democratic states, I fear it would be unimaginable for such ads to appear in the newspaper. On the other hand, very rarely you can find an ad where a company looking for a worker says - we encourage the employment of disabled people or other categories. In this House, we adopted a set of tax laws that, besides the rest, provide tax reliefs for all of those forms that they receive at work over 40 years old, so we ranked there - 40, 45, 50 years old, and they made it easier. It is a law proposed by the Ministry of Finance, which has already entered into force and I hope that if we adopt this law on working with such provisions on the prohibition of discrimination, along with this already passed law, we will make a significant contribution to all those whose age is, i.e. growing up was a problem finding a job. In addition to age, discrimination is prohibited based on gender, race, skin color, language, health status, disability, religion, nationality, sexual definition, political determination, union engagement, as well as origin, property and other personal properties. Fortunately, an amendment to the G17 plus parliamentary group was adopted, and pregnancy is also included in the list, because it was adopted by the government and the Committee of Resorts. In addition to the ban on indirect and direct discrimination, both for employees and for those applying for work, it should be said that harassment and sexual harassment are prohibited. I can see that every society is as human and democratic as it accepts the right to vary. I am very happy, at least I didn't notice that someone had something against these provisions in the law, no parliamentary group has put more important objections to these provisions, which tells me only about the humanity of our society and the great democratic potential of Serbia. The paper in the law is also a provision relating to the change of ownership in the company, so it is now envisaged that, when changing the employer or ownership of the company, the new employer is obliged to take over all contracted labour that will be valid for a year, unless the importance of the collective contract ceases. Also, what's in the law is the protection of employees in the event of bankruptcy. We're all witnesses to examples of companies from our environment that have been bankrupt for years. I will set an example of the company AD "Lipar" from Serbia's Montenegro, which has been bankrupt for eight years, and now you can imagine what it was like for these people while they were waiting to exercise some of their rights, especially those who were supposed to retire and were not paid contributions. You remember that we adopted a bankruptcy law last year in this House, so we limited that bankruptcy can only last a year, which is very good. Now I think, when we adopt this law in combination with this previous law and what this law provides, which is to establish a solidarity fund, where all those employees, for whom they cannot be paid off and contributions from the bankruptcy, will be paid off from the Solidarity Fund. I think their rights will be much more protected. As for the funds for the fund's work, they are already provided in the budget, which the finance ministry gave us in December and that budget we adopted and I think it will be well spent. In the end, I want to say that G17 plus will always support the laws that lead us to Europe, but we will also support all the measures that will contribute to making it easier for us all to go through together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11490	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. I give my word to the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, and let the MP of the people Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11491	Dear President of the Assembly, fellow MPs, Minister Lalovic spoke in his opening statement on new labour-legal institutes and my distinguished colleagues, representatives of parliamentary groups, delivered their opinion on the draft labour law. SDP MPs have made a brief comparative review of the new and existing law, which is not in this way contained in the reasoning of the law itself, which is here, as a proposal, on the agenda. The first fundamental difference is already at the beginning of the bill. The proposal for a new law states that the rights and obligations are governed by a collective contract and a labour contract, and the labour rule, which is normally adopted by the employer, only where the law provides. The proposal for a new law provides that the regulation is to be adopted if the consent of the conclusion of a collective agreement is not reached within 60 days of the date of the start of the negotiations, by the fact that, even after the adoption of the labour rules, participants are obliged to continue negotiations on the conclusion of the collective agreement, and if a collective contract comes to an end, the labour rule ceases to apply. In the existing law, the labour rules are adopted after unsuccessful negotiations, but without any further obligation to continue negotiations in order to conclude a collective agreement. The proposal for a new law provides for the possibility for a contract on the work or decision of the employer to establish the participation of the employee in the profit achieved in the financial year in accordance with the law, which is very stimulating. Such a possibility in the applicable law, as you know, does not exist. The proposal for a new law lays down the rights and obligations of employees and employers. One of the employer's obligations is to provide the employee with jobs. This, in other words, means that an employee is asked to do it safely and responsibly, but only when it is made clear to him what his job is and determines what it is. a work assignment, which means that the employer's organisation must be on a much higher level than it's ever been before. I believe that, in addition to the systemic shortcomings, most of the abandoned and failed enterprises are not so responsible employees, who allegedly did not know or did not want to work, but above all the former employers and poorly trained management, who do not know the international standards of the International Labour Organisation. In the existing law, there was only the obligation of the employer to introduce the employee to the organisation of work, and it was mostly bad. Otherwise, the organisation of work based on international standards implies that the employee receives a work order daily for the performance of his work, and that there is regular control of the performance of these tasks during the day, and that is essentially the key thing. Anyone who works in the economy and who is concerned by this law knows that this is the key thing. The proposal for a new law prohibits both direct and indirect discrimination, as well as the prohibition of harassment and sexual harassment. Only the general provision prohibiting any discrimination is stated in the existing law. The new law also prohibits the establishment of a working relationship by giving a previous statement by candidates about the cancellation of the labour contract. The current law does not overlook that. It was probably in practice or it was an international standard, but in any case, it's good to write it. Then, the minister said, the employer's obligation to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security. This provision, which does not exist in the current law, can be very useful because it stresses the employer’s obligation to regularly settle his legal obligations. The proposal for a new law also specified that the trainee could continue his traineeship with another employer, which in the current law did cause confusion and was not quite clear. The proposal for a new law provides that the Director may establish a working relationship with the employer for a specified or indefinite period of time, and if he does not establish a working relationship, he will be engaged by contract, which concludes with the competent authorities, for example with the Management Board. This was not written in the current law, so there was a dilemma about whether the director was based or not on a working relationship. The proposal for a new law stipulates the obligation of an employee to perfect himself, in accordance with the plan and programme of education, which means that the obligation of the employer to adopt a plan and programme of education has been established. It is, in my opinion, a very important provision that is not in force in law because it will contribute to the development of human potential and the progress of the employer. It's useful, therefore, both personal and general. In the proposal for a new law, the annual minimum vacation increased from 18 to 20 working days, the first part of the annual vacation increased from two to three weeks. The proposal for a new law also stipulates that an employer can change the solution to the use of annual holidays no later than five days when an employee uses an annual vacation after a solution. In the current law, this deadline did not exist. Also, the proposal for a new law lays down the protection of the employee's personal data, so that third parties can only use them for official purposes. That's not what the applicable law predicts. In the proposal for a new law, the employee, in addition to the basic earnings, can also be paid the stimulating part on the basis of the employee's contribution, according to the employer's success, which the current law does not foresee. The new law also established the employer's obligation to issue a profit account to the employee and when earnings are not paid, which is also a new provision. With the new law, I will conclude, I want to list all the quality changes that the new bill makes, and one of those quality changes is that the new law forms a solidarity fund from which the prescribed bankruptcy fees will be paid, and these are employers' bankruptcys. This is an important measure of material security for a jobless employee; there is no such thing as a valid law in this institute. There are still quality and crucial changes that concern all employees and employers, but I won't list them, because I don't have time anymore. Just to conclude, I think I have included the largest number of changes, perhaps not just any, but these listed ones show that this law provides more for the material position of employees, understands the rights and obligations, creates conditions for developing social dialogue and collective bargaining in order to reach an agreement on important issues of life and work. Therefore, it protects the person and dignity of the employee and thus does not in any way slow the work process of the employer, but looks stimulating.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11492	Thank you. Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and be prepared by Zvonimir Stević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11493	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as you have heard before, the DS will be abstained when voting for this law, although I must say that there are certain provisions that are new and that we consider to be quality incorporated into this law, and above all I mean three new chapters, these are claims of employees in bankruptcy, rights employed in the event of changes in the employer and the authority to adopt sublegal acts. These are new chapters that we think the legislator rightly found a place for them in the law and we think that the provisions in them are very much regulated so far by insufficiently regulated provisions in the law. What I would also like to point out positively in the new labour law is the fact that gender-sensitive provisions are very well done. For the first time, we have gender-sensitive provisions in the labour law. First of all, I mean anti-discrimination provisions, and we also welcome that, because these are new liquids, which should follow in other regulations that are on the agenda in front of the Serbian Parliament. Of course, in the expectation of other laws that should address discrimination and general law on the prohibition of discrimination, as well as the law on the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities, for the time being in this transitional period of this provision can correct the situation so far. What I also hope will soon be on this Parliament's agenda, and it should regulate this area and I don't know why it hasn't been delivered to the National Assembly yet, is a law on the employment of persons with disabilities, or disabled persons. It is a very important law and for no particular reason has already been given to MPs, because this is an area that is unregulated and where provisions should be made that allow and stimulate employers to employ persons with disabilities. Also, on the issue of discrimination, we think that more places can be found for certain provisions that would more precisely and strictly define the ban on forced labour of children, including the ban on the worst forms of child labour. In doing so, I must reiterate the fact that the provisions relating to women discrimination and gender-sensitive provisions have been made in a very good way. Of course, there are some things we have some objections about. We felt it was necessary to amend certain provisions in the law, but they needed to be changed in order to further deregulation and create a more flexible labour market. The consequences of the adoption of this law are we think that they can be the opposite and therefore we have a certain reserve and fence, because we are afraid that they can lead to greater regulation and less flexible labour market. Additional regulation always essentially imposes higher costs on the employer, negatively affecting investment, thus increasing employment. We also have objections made by the employers' association, they have been made to that part of the regulation and believe that certain provisions can also lead to an increase in unemployment; therefore, at this point in Serbia, it is approaching the figure of almost a million unemployed, and so we express the reserve on this issue. We think this law is disproportionate to the attention of the employees of the unemployed. There are a large number of unemployed persons, those looking for a job, located at the Employment Service, a large number of young people, very high-quality, skilled and professional, who need the labour market. On the other hand, cementing employment can in some ways make it difficult for them to get a job according to their qualifications, and in this sense we point to possible consequences that may arise. We also point to the fact that such a firm regulation within the framework of the labour law can lead to an increase in the grey employment zone, therefore, to an increase in work on black. And so far, unfortunately, we've been witnessing that working on black exists. We haven't been able to contain it to an acceptable extent, and we think that with this firm positioning, the firm provisions that exist in the labour law, there can be an increase in work on black, which, of course, is not in the interests of workers. It is not in the interests of workers that, although they are working, they are not paid pension and disability insurance, unemployment insurance, health insurance, but also other labour rights, such as the right to sick leave, the right to severance in case of cancellation, paid leave and so on. We think these are segments that the legislator must pay special attention to. We think that these are things that the government will have to pay particular attention to, because otherwise we will face an increase in the number of employees in the gray zone, of which the state will not benefit at all, and unfortunately they too will not benefit from their work through the fact that they will not have all the rights they have under the law, because they will not be reported as workers in a regular working relationship. As for the union organization, we think that the legislator has quite well regulated this story, but we point to a failure that, given the circumstances, is within the law. Article 214 says -- the union can establish at least ten employees in one or more employers. This provision, we think accidentally, and we have submitted an amendment to it, is contrary to Article 44. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says to guarantee freedom of political, trade union and other organisation and operation and without approval, with registration in the register of competent authorities. This provision is the opposite and 127. The union freedoms convention and the protection of trade union rights, which also says that the full free organisation of workers in the union organisation, so we see no reason why the legislator in Article 214 has provided for the obligation that ten workers must establish a union organisation. There is no number anywhere that would limit workers and we think that this freedom of association, therefore, has no reason to be limited and placed imperative norm of ten employees, because it is simply not the Constitution, nor any other positive regulation relating to the association of citizens does not limit and set that minimum standard of ten, so we suggest that the Minister and MPs consider the amendment submitted by the MP group DS, simply that this member is changed so that they can only be established by trade union organisations in accordance with the general act of the union, because then they would not come to the possibility that we would be able to compromise whether or not you are in accordance with the Constitution of this provision. What I would also like to point out as something that we simply have to pay particular attention to, which can lead to certain disturbances in the functioning of the economy, employers, workers, etc. is, according to us, the low degree of representativeness that the legislator provides for, as far as the union is concerned. The legislator predicts that the union's representativeness is obtained if there are 10% of the workers who are members of it in one employer, 15% of the employer and 10% in the border organisation, which means that if the employer has 100 workers theoretically can in his company that there are 6 official trade unions whose employer must recognise the representativeness. Since we are all witnesses that we can use everything that the legislator gives us, and what he won't give us, to find a hole in the provision, we might happen to have six unions in one company. What happens then? You must all acknowledge the representativeness, and then you have provisions that oblige you to provide each of them with working conditions, and that means office, phone, fax, appropriate rights that arise for a union leader, absence from work if it deals with union organisation, etc. We think that this is quite expensive, that it imposes quite high obligations on the employer, so I suggest that MPs think about the percentage of union representativeness, because I think representativeness can be set to a higher percentage and that then we all have a more efficient social dialogue, which we consider to be extremely important. So, at the moment this ministry put the social dialogue law on the agenda, the Democratic Party really thought it was very important, because this tripartite agreement between employers, workers and the state is something that could bring serious positive changes to our country's economic system, but we are afraid that this dialogue will be difficult in this case if this representativeness is given to a very broad number of trade union organisations. Also, as far as the border-level organisation is concerned, we have only 10%, and we can also come into a situation where certain border unions represent a large number of unions, and then their alignment can in fact make it more difficult for us to agree on this tripartite social dialogue, and therefore we do not have the positive effect that we would all want this previous law to have. The same remarks or in many similar remarks relate to the representativeness of employers, which is limited to 5% compared to the number of employers dealing with the same type of activity, but also has a certain supplementary provision in relation to the number of employees. We think it's also very small. Employers need to have a representative level. We do not see the reason why we have many representative employers' organisations within one branch group, because we will also have a problem agreeing them until we reach this tripartite social dialogue; so until all trade union organisations and all employers' organisations agree, I think we will literally get back in the situation that we will not be able to apply a lot of good provisions on this social dialogue. We have in this sense pointed to the great objections we have had, but on the other hand, we think that some other provisions have a positive character. So, as far as the Democratic Party is concerned, we won't vote for this law. We will be restrained, because we cannot agree with the fact that the unemployed are being placed in a worse position and that at this point in fact these provisions are contrary to the poverty reduction strategy, but as a party that is opposition in parliament, we cannot even interfere with the implementation of this law and we leave that responsibility to you. We leave you with the responsibility to try to solve the 900,000 unemployed issue under this law, to try to solve the problems that await us this year, in which a restructuring of large business systems and public enterprises has been announced, and we leave you to the responsibility that this balance between the considerable regulation of employees, compared to the unemployed, regulate yourself when implementing this labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11494	The People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vukovic Milivoje be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, while considering the draft labour law, which is on the agenda of our today's session, it is an opportunity to refer to some questions that seem to be not directly related to this matter. Before I say that it is a legal project that is of paramount importance not only for workers and a large army of those who lose jobs from day to day, but also for trade unions, but also for those whose law will impose those obligations that would mean even the minimum rights of employees and their elemental labour protection, which I must say is not so far, especially in the past four or five years, there has been a case. It is clear these days, especially when presenting the bill in the Serbian Parliament, the need and the starting points for its adoption are indicated. It is good that all bells are indicated the necessity to comply with the standards of the international community in force in the European Union for this legal project, and there have been a lot of words about it today. So that's what I support, or we socialists support it. This is of particular importance from the point of view of the protection of workers and their rights, which so far in numerous examples and privatisation processes of our businesses have been often left to the new owners of these companies, who, must be stressed, did not consistently adhere to the purchase contracts and at least to the part of it relating to the social programme and the protection of employees' rights by the employer. This has an additional dimension in terms of the announcements that came from the Labour Minister on several occasions, that this year there will be layoffs of workers and that additional efforts need to be made to take care of them and, in particular, strengthen the responsibility for the derogation from the application of the law in the area of protection of the rights of employees and those who lose their jobs. The reason I volunteered for the discussion is precisely because I am concerned, as well as several tens of thousands of workers from Kosovo and Metohija, and some consider it close to 100,000, who are after being expelled from this province and being taken over by the United Nations of Management over Cosmet, including companies from this territory, due to total indifference and indifference in terms of workers of Serbian nationality, including most of the non-Albanian workers, who have been left on the street, many even without any receipts, and most of them without houses, fields, apartments and other property. In the light of the law, the main objectives that will be achieved by the adoption of labour law are: the consistent application of the European Union directive in this area, the precision of the provisions of the laws providing for the consistent application of conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation. In the last position, the new labour law will ensure the application of the next European Union Directive, besides the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin. I am taking the opportunity, since international organisations and our compliance with European standards are being announced here, did Mr. Minister and his advisers present in these talks with international factors the extremely difficult situation of employees from Kosovo and Metohija and what response did they get from the international community? So, I welcome the efforts to give the European Union a proper presentation of our efforts to bring our legislative practice into line with European practices. At the same time, it is necessary to point very clearly to a kind of violation of the right to work for the army of Kosovo's inadequacies, who, not their own fault, came into the situation after years of work and creation, are on a beggar stick. Among the tens of thousands of these exiles and those who remained in Kosovo and Metohija is a large number of excellent craftsmen, masters, engineers, economists, lawyers, journalists and members of other professions, whose work and contribution so far, and the acquired knowledge and experience is now almost insignificant. Why is there no place in this legal project for the protection of these persons and their rights? I don't understand, although I know that I will be offered the answer that this is not a matter for this law. On the contrary, I believe that the sphere of work and engagement of people who have been forced to be expelled has lost their jobs, most impediment to the care of the particular ministry, along with the Serbian Ministry of Finance and in general. It is extremely incorrect and surprising that no statement, not a word of the status of the employees, or the fate of the people who have worked in Kosovo and Metohija, is said in the explanation. In chapter - I think the termination of working relations should have been and that the legislator should have foreseen this reason as well. It is said that the working relationship ends on an expiry date for which it is based when an employee is 65 years of age and at least 15 years of insurance training, if the employer and employees do not agree differently. So, the reason for the forced banishment from work, so that later on, with respect to international factors, those persons may have some rights and some protection to potentially seek compensation for damages. If these concerns were any more, surely what is present would not have happened, if only they were spoken only in a timely manner, and in a harsh violation of international conventions, just when it comes to these persons, they are silent or not spoken out loud enough. Why international peace forces and numerous international entities, which have shown huge concern over the alleged humanitarian disaster of Albanians, do not discuss the unrecorded in the history of overcoming the right to work in the southern Serbian province and to prevent employees from returning to their jobs, businesses and institutions in Kosovo and Metohija in which they worked until mid-1999. Neither the government of Serbia, nor the competent ministry of labour and social policy and the relevant institutions dealing with Kosovo and Metohija's problems, including the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, have done almost nothing to improve the position of this person's category. Instead, the classification of this substance as suitable legal solutions, these people refer to some undefined and quite formalised regulation, without a more serious dose of material, existential and legal certainty. The last regulation of September 1st last year concerning these persons is full of inadequacy, and its starting point is completely unclear. In fact, the regulation balances all those persons, regardless of the degree of school preparation, social status and other circumstances. The temporary compensation that should be made on the labour market is minimal, only 4,600 dinars for populated workers who have lost their jobs and 5,600 dinars for those living in extremely difficult conditions in Kosovo and Metohija. I repeat again, as I pointed out last time, and I ask the competent ministry to see who gives itself the right to, when monthly payments are made, these people, or those workers, be cut off from 200 to 500 dinars. In addition, the payment of the church is carried out with a delay of six months, and despite the promises itself, nothing has been done to repair the dynamics of payment, including workers in the authorities of the administration, and regardless of the insistence, and promises that they will be brought into regular payment, especially for last year. It is a legal obligation because the budget provides for 12 salaries, it is still late to pay the salaries of the government's workers, although one salary has been paid these days, and the assurances are that there will be more, but is stalling. On the other hand, according to the information that I have, the right to compensation has not been granted by all workers, as some public companies sometimes have disagreements as to whether payment is in the jurisdiction of the parent ministry or the labour market. There are a number of other problems here, because the lack of interest of the current leadership of the dissipation and poverty unions is impossible to link and organise a union to which these workers belong, whose voice would have to be heard, and not that, as is now the case, some trade union self-intentioners are looking only for themselves and those surrounding them. This compromise includes a number of other issues, particularly material compensations for the kidnapped, kidnapped, murdered and missing persons, the maintenance of their families, and the achievement of pension rights and others. For the absurd to be larger, you watched on television, the members of the kidnapped person's family are asked to prove that the person died or that he was gone, or that he was missing, and that they have the right to belonging within a year, and after a year, their right to do so is denied. You watched the Kosovo Mitrovica family case on TV. How can you talk about the protection of a person without respecting even the elemental criteria when it comes to them and protecting their rights. It is a sad fact that no one today cares that even temporarily hires engineers, doctors, journalists, lawyers, and good craftsmen of different profiles, who have worked in companies in Cosmet. On the other hand, there is no employment of those persons in the remains of companies that have been moved from Kosovo and Metohija in some cases, or a minimum number of workers are hired, as is the case at the Panoram Press-Issuing Public Enterprise, or a list where several dozen journalists are without a working job, and a list, which was daily, comes out once a week. That is the case in Elektroprivred, whose workers in Kosovo and Metohija are now being denied engagement, as the Kosovo-energy Corporation and its management structures view it as parallelism. At the same time, they rule out strange arches of villages and settlements in which Serbs live electricity and endanger the life of children, old people and exhausted faces in these winter days. I'm taking the opportunity to say that there is a manipulation involved in the power outage in the village of Batuse, in the part of the town of Lipljan. I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry to settle the obligations for spent electricity by the Serb national population or that Serbia's Elektroprivreda delivers electricity to Serb enclaves, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija. Because what has not been done is not done by a party race to possibly solve the problem on a day, two, three or four. I think it's a state problem, and I wonder what was being negotiated and what was being discussed five years ago, so if nothing had been agreed on, electricity consumption should have been agreed. Another illustration, the draft law provides for the possibility for workers to be paid up before the end of the working century before retirement, and also provides for the severance or inability to receive funds and their association to carry out and deal with private activities and to set up smaller firms. The possibility of persons for Kosovo and Metohija is not predicted. I guess that's exactly what special care should be devoted to. It is particularly a matter of concern for young people from Kosovo and Metohija and their perspective. In primary and secondary education yearly, about 1,500 students end up in Pristina University universities, moved to Kosovo, Mitrovica, annually enrolls about 1,200 students, assuming that about 10% of graduates receive their yearly college degrees, a hundred jobs for these finished academics should be provided annually. Now, apart from education and health care, which engages in a small number of completed students, for these young people there is no prospect of a job in the province. The way it comes to work is making it even less likely to hire in the rest of the Republic. For the past five years, international organisations in Kosovo and Metohija have not provided any means to perfect people of Serbian nationality. No other funds and credit support have been allocated to create conditions for new and profitable jobs. Of course, it is necessary that the newly created Kosovo Fund and the Metohija of its management structure show a particularly exceptional meaning. If this, as well as other legal projects, and even more so in the daily work of young people and their completion, labour engagement and the acceleration of their survival in Kosovo and Metohija do not pay attention, only Serbian nursing households, which are extinct and shut down, will remain in the hostile environment in the Serbian environment, and it is clear in whose hands Kosovo would fall. Finally, I want to state the position representing the SPS, and that in the draft labour law there is a serious lack of the fact that it has been allowed to define the status of workers through a legal project, whether they live in Kosovo and Metohija or for some reason they have been exiled. I believe that the Ministry of Labour, as competent, must find an opportunity both legally valid, and morally and existentially, acceptable way to offer a solution for all persons who, in addition to the loss of property and freedom, have lost their jobs and engagements and have a sense of imperceptibility and a feeling that no one needs them. They should be the subject of the interest of these and other legal projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11496	Thank you, colleague Stevic. The word has the People's MP Vukovic Milivoje, and let the People's MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this draft labour law has serious shortcomings, so we from the SRS have tabled a number of amendments to fix it as much as possible. A statement by the Union of employers from Serbia-Montenegro said the new labour law not only would not solve the problems of employees and employers, but would be a direct obstacle to investment in Serbia's economy and the cause of the dismissal of a large number of workers. Now I would specifically say what is not good in this draft labour law. I'll take my turn. First, in Articles 6 and 7 the word "democratic" is too high and is not good to be potent. We seem to want to admit that we are not a democratic society and that we should put that into law. Also, there are many members where the government calls for recommendations and directives of the European Union to be explained. It is said, as recommended by the European Union, number 92/443, pursuant to Article 8 of Directive 2000/43/EC, and in accordance with Directive 93/104 of the European Union, Article 11 of Directive 98/50, etc. Everything on the recommendation and the directive, as if we don't know anything about doing it ourselves, but we always need someone to order and set the conditions and the directives. How long? Looks like we don't know that we live without a directive. I'm no language expert, but I think there are a few members to which the amendments have been submitted to make them more linguistically correct. For example, Article 15, 53, 111, and to this Article 111, the government itself has submitted an amendment, and I think it's more right now. When it comes to discrimination against persons seeking employment, as well as employees, it's a special story. In my opinion, Article 23, paragraph 2 is unsustainable and must be deleted or changed at least because the burden of proving discrimination falls on the defendant, and what I do not see as logic. If the defendant has the right to defend himself by silence, and what was given to him under the applicable law, how in that case to prove discrimination, or by that people's side -- silence is a sign of approval, so the act of silence itself will be a proof of guilt. An example from practice, an employee is being denied professional training, because it comes from one of the former republics of Yugoslavia, although it has Serbian-Montenegro citizenship. Is that how you get into the European Union? Is this Europe without the borders we want? How can this discrimination be proved? Also, I do not understand the government's explanation for Article 126, where it is said that the bill's solution was given according to the options available in the Republic of Serbia's budget. How can compensation be damaged on the basis of the court's decision for injury to work or occupational illness, if the decision has become legal, it only pays in half. It's, in my opinion, a kind of discrimination against an employee. He didn't want to get hurt or hurt by some professional disease. Instead of helping him, we are even more discriminatory and condemning him for injury or disease. I guess the court's decisions are binding on both workers and employers. Since I'm a doctor, I'd end up looking back at a few members of my profession. Namely, I would suggest that the Minister and the Government accept amendments to Articles 77, 94, 103 and 157 for the following reasons: we know that the lack of blood supply is high, so I think that these two days added to the employer does not mean much, because the state must also stimulate, not destimulate voluntary blood donation, which seems to be increasing the number of days of increased absence to voluntary blood donors. I don't think private employers would mind. I wonder what they'd do if they or one of their families needed blood. In order to speed up the birth rate and fight against the white plague, I believe that extending maternity leave for a third child to two years would be a significant incentive for young people to decide on a third or more children. Also, the three-day deadline for notifying the employer that there has been a temporary prevention for work is short, and the time of expected prevention for work is in practice difficult to determine, because sometimes the disease can be complicated and the forecasts are not grateful. As far as being sick, I think there would be more effective patient health control. In fact, labour medicine should form a control committee that would check patients and visit them at home unannounced, and then it would not be possible for "patients" to do difficult jobs at home and abuse illness. That's the principle of control, for example, in the Czech Republic. In the end, I want to say that it would be necessary, i.e. The amendment of Mrs Verice Radete to Article 157 should be adopted urgently. Article 157 adds a 2nd position to the disabled person, as well as an employee who, as a member of the Yugoslav Armed Forces, participated in armed actions after 17 August 1990, cannot stop working relations due to the termination of the need for employment until he is entitled to retire. This is a minimum that the state can do for members of the combat units, not just pursue them and send them to The Hague. They would thus raise up our generations to come, that it is an honor and obligation to defend their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11498	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11499	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, today is the day of the adoption of the labour law. Of course, a country that moves from a socialist society to a modern capitalist society and changes in titles of ownership necessarily require that the labour law be changed. Serbia needs one law that has been adopted by the European Union, a law that will allow for future co-operation with the European Union. We in New Serbia believe that this law is welcome and has come at the right time. Of course, in about a few years, most Serbian citizens will be forced to work in the private sector or will be forced to do private work on their own, and for these reasons it is necessary to have a good and quality labour law, which will guarantee that workers' attitude towards the employer, as well as the employer's attitude towards the worker. This law, which we are adopting here today, is a law that accepts the International Community, which will bring us into faster co-operation with the European Union and speed up the process of transformation i.e. privatization of property. The law will also allow healthy investment and for serious companies, which have a tradition in their work, to be present on our market, and thus will allow new jobs to be opened, which is beyond what Serbia needs. Of course, if serious companies come, if serious people come and we do serious business in Serbia, then both our workers' lives and standards will be better at a more envious level than they are today. Of course, it is very important how and how this law regulates the attitude of workers towards the employer and the relationship of the employer to the worker. He regulated it through good, firm and quality collective and individual contracts. What's most important in this law is the protection of workers during the change of titles. In our practice, which is behind us, we have seen that during the change of titles, many workers have encountered the mercy and mercy of individuals and unprotected, without being able to in one judiciary, which so far has been bad, prove their rightfulness and come to over the desired justice. This justice lasted a long time, in some cases even after ten years, and, of course, it violated the integrity of the individual and the integrity of the entire family. What we had negatively in the past law, and in the past, is the protection of workers during bankruptcy. The bankruptcy managers were small gods, and of course the victims, besides the property that was injured in these companies, were also those who were employed in these companies. It is very important that the solidarity fund is now envisaged, which will guarantee a certain safety of workers among all those companies affected by bankruptcy. Simply, these people who have lost their jobs can have some kind of existence and support their families and themselves. New Serbia and New Serbia MPs will surely support this law, because we believe that this is a modern, good and quality law and a law that, as I said at the beginning, will enable us to get closer to the European Union and introduce these codes of conduct, norms that are accepted by the European Union, which will speed up our transformation with the European Union, and also provide a better and higher standard for all citizens of our country. What I'd like to say at the very end, and I want to believe that that's how it's going to be, I'd like to say something about the environment I come from, which is the town of Kragujevac, which everyone knows was one big industrial center in the previous period. Of course, like all major industrial centers, he's paying an expensive price for this transformation today. I think that the only place in Kragujevac is the Institute of Employment and Education, and there are about 6,000 people who have lost their jobs and who in some way are treating and helping, I think, by September of this year, and that after September these people will be forced to meet at the Employment Office. I hope this labour law, which we are adopting today, and that this solidarity fund will include the 6,000 workers of the Institute, who are at the WHO. It will be good for workers, and of course for environments like Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11500	The People's MP Nikola Todorovic has the word, and let the MP Istvan Takac be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11501	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we have a new proposal for a European law, in line with all the directives and recommendations – European and ours. The key words "employer", "employer", "work-based rights", "resignment of a labour contract", "dependence of a working relationship" and other issues related to the ambience of a rich capitalist, orderly and disciplined world of the European Community, where we prescribe or coordinate normative acts with our environment; in a rich European Union, where many employers offer a lot of work and where it is much easier to get to work than to stay out of work, unlike our environment, where there are a large number of people without a job and where it is very rare that some employer offers employment opportunities. This orderly world has opportunities to hire, unemployment rates are much less than with us and there are very few people who, when they run out of work, wait for a long time for work. That time when they wait for work, the state takes care of them in an adequate way and has in charge over the labour market, conditionally speaking, as we do, and can live on it, and that's not the case with us. I'll just have a few key questions to try and say. This law is nothing new or revolutionary compared to the earlier texts of the law, not even the one that is valid, although I have heard a lot of different opinions here. In a few examples, I'll show it's true. There is ignorance, there is a desire to show that everything that is new now is much better than it was before, although I know that the regulations that have regulated this area before were much clearer and more acceptable, only the other environment, other possibilities, were potentials greater, the economy was working etc. Minister, I know you can't solve all these problems, because you solve the problems of those who don't work. If the rest of the ministers in the government (Well, Naumov) were to work more and start that production, if most people worked, then you'd have less problems taking care of those who didn't work, with these social categories. We'll start with Article 12. He says, "the employee has the right to earn the right money." It's happening again in article 104 on page 32. What does the European Directive and recommendations of the European Community say when it comes to the term "responsible earnings"? What is the proper profit in our terms, in any branch? What is the corresponding profit for a locksmith, miners, construction machine handler, business electrician, workers in the administration in Italy, Germany, France, Austria, and how much is it with us. Can an employer offer such a price of work, such a profit in our home, from which you can't live without being rude and not literally saying exploits, rental work. We've got a lot of color and depending on the branch you're working in, if you're lucky to work at EPS, NIS, Oilagass, you might have a chance to make a living. In Electrodistribution, cleaners earn more than a graduate mining engineer. Can a graduate mining engineer come to the employer to negotiate with the owner of the company about the price of the work without being so humiliating, because if he refuses, someone else who has to accept that labour price will be able to survive. It's a big competition. We have so many people looking for a job compared to what they're offering, so you're in a position to accept anything to survive. What do the European directives say about this concept that we are trying to sort out in this way? He says – the employer is obliged to ensure that work is done according to the remaining work capacity, etc. Where in the law did you read that there was a disability to work with the remaining work capacity? How do you know that the Law on PIO, which was adopted in 2003, abolished the concept of disability, disabled work with the remaining work capacity, abolished the term - another relevant job, abolished the term - remaining work skills, etc. If you're referring to that and by earlier regulations, it may have been necessary to resolve it through transitional and final provisions, as in the PIO Act itself. This is how it turns out that the law regulates it, that these people who have this status of disabled work with the remaining work capacity, or by the earlier regulations of the third category of disability, the second category of disability, or the worker who threatens to become disabled if he stays on those jobs and continues to work. The employer has no job for them, to work full-time, to achieve a working norm without jeopardizing their health conditions. And in the existing law, that category of workers is not protected. The employer can always put them on the list of workers whose work has ceased the need and by procedure appropriate to free these workers, because you cannot expect the employer to solve the social problem. I think that's what the legislator had in mind earlier, that the state is solving a social problem, not an employer. Imagine an employer who, due to labour market disturbances, or loses some of his capacity for some reason and has to reduce the number of employees. No one can say - don't leave this one at work or leave him at work and fire this one. The employer chooses. He can think best of Mr. Perry, he says -- you're a good worker, you're a little sick, you have kids, I'm sorry you have to lose your job, but I'm not paying you to come to work anymore, because I don't have those options anymore, I don't have a commitment, I'll pay you your salary, I'll pay you your severance fee, and the state will take care of you. But our country is in no position in these conditions as it is. The employer has this opportunity and no one can deny it. If the employer meets the conditions of working, by what the company founded, I can't say the owner of the company, because now it's the owner of a business name, we've changed terms, so we're having a hard time getting on with new terms, he chooses what he's going to deal with, he has to meet the conditions regarding the organisation of technical conditions, technological, as regards protection of work, commitment to the state. When he gets permission to work, he determines the capacity, determines how much he will produce, what he will produce, who he will sell to and how many workers he will hire. No one can tell him otherwise. So, depending on how he uses the capacity, how many opportunities he has to employ more or less workers of a particular profession, he chooses employees, he doesn't even have to take anyone's justice and why, he doesn't even have to publish competitions, but he's going to work through the labour market of the National Employment Service or without mediation, just by contacting the job-seeker. You can't even expect this problem of disabled workers to be solved that way. It is the creation of illusions among those who are in such a state that they will be better off, and they will not be better off. In the Law on PIO, in one article, I think Article 21, one sentence mentions the disability of work in terms of loss of ability. So, total incompetence for work. The PIO Act only knows that concept and no other concept of disability. It's incorrect to write it if it's not in line with this or if you don't think you have a new text of that PIO law, so it's in order. If that's a lineup, it's a better variant, because I don't think it's right for someone to say right now -- there's no lack of working ability; so man works 30-40 years in hard working conditions, so years of life, so physical conditions, etc. It's normal for a man not to have the same working skills, even if he gets sick, like at the beginning of a career, when he's healthy, young and physically prepared. In order not to take up much time, so much of these people with disabilities, deserve and pray, especially because of these solutions, that their rights are denied, there is this legal uncertainty, because it is said that disabled workers who are jobless will have the right to a certain fee through the PIO Fund. Then it's limited to five years since the law was passed, so there's been so much legal uncertainty that a large number of people lose their safety, what's going to happen to them, what's going to survive until they get retirement conditions on some other basis, get old or get sick to the point where they lose that job capacity. For a little while more to run through the text; on page 34, this minimum profit is so funny, you say -- social partners, agreement, government, union, employers. I don't see the role of government if it allows it to be such a low price, that minimum profit. Imagine a family where one works in the family, that because of his illness he can't earn, so a reduced illness or sick leave that can't be better than a minimum profit, pays for the drugs, can't be fed. If more kids go to school, drop out of college, schooling kids. That family comes up with it - better to kill them than to try it that way. What does Europe say? What does the world say when it comes to it? If they've copied everything from the world, let's see how much it's in the world. I want to tell you this -- an employer who is able to attract and hire has an obligation to pay. If he's in no condition to do that, he won't exist as an employer. I'll stay through the amendments. But one more part is important, I have to say this. Here someone praised and talked about how this law requires the employer to send, deliver an insurance application, and this exists in the law of Article 136 — an obligation within eight days, and an application for insurance and a checkout from insurance, and a great penalty has been threatened. So there is, and it's nothing new and it doesn't need to be regulated in two places, it already exists. Just one more thing and I'll be done. I'll talk about the amendments later. There's a lot of things about the part about bankruptcy. Those who have written this text of the law or who comment must at least have a few provisions to know from the field of the PIO law, health insurance, employment of workers, the Labour Registration Act, and then they will understand. All these provisions are logical, connected, clear, not contradictory, but should be known to make this comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11502	Thank you. Here you go, Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11503	I'm sorry, but it is my turn to comment at this point on the number of objections made to this speaker regarding the draft labour law. I'll start at the end, it's just the freshest, and that's the question of the minimum wage of the disabled, so I'll go to the beginning of today's remarks. When it comes to disabled people and their position, what has been seen to mention in the law the remaining working ability, in this second law, is missing, here it is retained, or, now it will be detained because it is foreseen that in the amended Law on PIO, which will also be subject to discussion soon, hopefully, we are returning the notion of working ability because one situation is abnormal. Namely, what was the idea of me explaining, so we could have a picture. When a new law was passed in 2003, when it was done, it was then deleted, because it was then thought that a special law would quickly regulate the position of disabled people. It wasn't done by a new law, and then there was one impossible situation, that since 2003 everyone who comes into the position that they're not sick, so they have to retire, it's not the first category, that there's really no place for them. I'm talking about new people, because old people have been protected for five years. So that's why this is here, because it's going to be in the new law too. And about the disabled, another note. Soon it will be here at the Assembly of Laws, which is mentioned today, and they ask why it has not yet been completed, the law on employment and rehabilitation of the person, means the disabled, which in a completely different way regulates the substance of the disabled, you will have the opportunity to discuss it here. So it's about this question. With regard to minimum earnings, which has also been mentioned, what do international conventions say? They say a simple thing, and then we face our reality, they say that this minimum wage, as they call it, not profit, should satisfy a certain minimum, but according to the national economy and so on. There's a problem behind it, and there's a problem, and that's the problem with all of us. And this minimum profit, however it is, the average profit in Serbia is as big as it is, the minimum profit cannot be much higher. So, the problem is that Serbia is in its general development and productivity, so as not to be people of error. Namely, when they say, when there will be bigger profits, when the issue is raised, there will be bigger profits in Serbia and will be seriously higher when the general productivity of the social sector grows in Serbia and when productivity in businesses grows. There's one more thing to tell you, it's a real picture of us. In 1989, before this whole kavalkada and our failure, and today we are talking about this age as a golden age, so productivity, in general, was 20% of the productivity in Europe, even in that Serbia. A fifth then, and imagine how much general social productivity is today, and don't pretend that we fell from Mars. Earnings can also increase overall improvements in Serbia, and on the one hand, we increase cookies, and on the other hand we increase productivity. It's something that needs to be done and don't let us tell stories that are often spoken completely irresponsiblely here. Next thing you know, it's a matter of system. As for the workforce, to mention, it's already a situation in Serbia, I don't know if you've heard about it, there are such cases that they come to Serbia in businesses to work for workers from Bulgaria, Romania, because ours who are registered at the bureau won't come to work in these businesses or have a small salary, and that's the other side of the medal, and don't tell stories anymore. So it is about the need to build a system in Serbia that will raise general productivity. And why is that? Our man is in Germany, in France, they say, an excellent worker, doing great. And why does he work there and he doesn't work here? Because the system's been in here for decades, and what we're supposed to do is put that system up, and that's what we're actually doing here. A few more things that have been said here, to explain to the MPs, and also to the citizens, the position of directors, is mentioned here, in this bill of law. It's a simple thing. In the current law, the position of the director is unregulated, his position is unregulated, because he is in a working relationship, he is not, what is the position, and he is in practice creating major problems. What do we say here? There are two options: either he's a director in a working relationship, so it's a contract to work on indefinite and specific; or he's not in a working relationship, that's attitude 4, and then he gets a fee that has a character of profit. It's just, we say, two things. He can be in a working relationship, and he doesn't have to be if the owner wants to put him in the position of a classic manager by contract. So, to be clear, there's no misunderstanding. There's one more thing he's looking for here, an explanation. The question has been asked what indirect discrimination is, that it is unclear what it is. He says it's a neutral provision, so we don't know what it is. I'll give you one example, and practice will show what indirect discrimination is. One possible example, to explain this to all of us, is that in the act on the systematization of one company, the condition of establishing a working relationship, that only one who has up to two years of employment can establish a working relationship. It's a neutral provision, but that means the basis for discrimination against old workers if that's a condition. So, just to be clear, there would be no misunderstanding. When it comes to an open question, and it is not about the law and I need to say, it is about the position of people in Kosovo and Metohija and it is open here. Those who have worked there, and now after this incident since 1999 and all these situations cannot work, to give one piece of information about what the government is doing, we have several categories of people in Kosovo and Metohija that we are helping in one way or another. So we have one group and it's social benefits, social benefits. They're going through this ministry. We have a second category, cash benefits for the unemployed, and that's another category, same goes through this ministry. We have those who work, employees, they're the ones who get paid here from Belgrade. We have a fourth category that's mentioned here, and that's one category of people who either can't work or work in companies that don't work at all, because they can't work, they're not at the bureau. It is the fourth category and the fourth category is also a category that the government is considering in its special working group how it will resolve. And that problem will be solved, just so you know what this government is doing when it comes to it. There's still a big question here, a question of deregulation and regulation. Of course I can look at things from that angle. So, what's something that's regulated and what's deregulated and unregulated. My opinion is that nothing in itself is good or bad, but that depends on what situation we apply something to and to what extent. Here I would also mention to deregulatory lovers that, for example, up to six years ago, he was in the world a general trend that absolutely good deregulation, just deregulation and that's good. In the last few years in that world, they've changed their mind about it because they've faced the consequences of this kind of absoluteization of an approach. So, for me, it's not a question of whether regulation, deregulation is good in itself, because it's a pointless approach, but what in our circumstances brings a certain type of regulation, a certain amount of regulation, and what is a certain amount of deregulation. I think it's a realistic and rational approach, because if it were different, hand to heart, if we had a three-year deregulation, if that was a problem, we should have made investments, and unfortunately they didn't. So if it's just a deregulation problem. I think it's a lot more serious. Another principle; namely, when it is said here that the regulations are before 2000. The years were better, so they were more for the workers and so on, there's only one thing I can say about that. The best for the workers, as it was written, was the Law on Joint Labour, the perfect law, and there's only one shortage, which someone needs to finance. When someone stopped funding from the outside in 1980, then he started the sunflower, and it couldn't stand it. So, there's a small, tiny flaw. Long before I'm a real law supporter, who respects the real circumstances, the real rights that we can give people to make them come true. Here it is also mentioned, about the burden of proof, one more thing when it comes to sexual harassment and there is one comment. Therefore, the observation that this is regulated under the general rules. Of course, even theft is regulated by criminal procedure. However, when theft is in the company it is also subject to labour responsibility. So also sexual harassment or anything else has other protection, criminal justice, but there's work protection, and these things don't need to be messed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11504	Replica, MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11505	Dear Minister, when I spoke of that labour price, you are as burdened as all of us with the current situation in the economy, we are putting out the fire. We have a large number of state-owned enterprises where the state is a majority owner, so we don't know what to solve, we don't have production, we don't have money, we can't quit, there's been a revolution, we don't know what we're going to do, the employer-employer relationship, the problem is big. When we pass labour law, we talk about all new subjects. We could, as in the Business Society Act, exempt that part, but all new businesses, all new entities that are founded should have these conditions and those who are unable to pay workers should close it immediately, and not offer such a low labour price that is humiliating, which cannot provide existence to any citizen and not to the whole family. Imagine a miner who, at 6,000, 12,000, needs to educate a child in Belgrade or high school anywhere, and imagine a miner who works for 35 years, gets sick and now you give him more unfavourable conditions, you reduce his base during sick leave. It's no longer a profit but a basic profit and it's no longer a month's profit when it's using that right than the last three months, where there's been an increase in the cost of living, etc. So you're making things difficult. I had cases of a four-member family, a miner working, producing and supporting a family. The moment he gets sick, he's no longer able to support himself or his family. Expensive medications, no treatment, and basically a man kills himself, because he can't make that reduced profit, that's how he makes money to get him to survive, pay for the drugs, to treat and support the children. I don't know what the union's position was when he negotiated with you. I don't know your role as Government, because it's between employers and employees, and you should make an ambience for them to agree, not to be on the side of the employer so convincingly, but to force employers to make good use of labour resources, to use equipment, time of work, and to have products that they can sell. Then they'll be able to pay the worker and then it's a healthy business that works, not a sick economy that doesn't pay. Imagine this part, by the way, it's unknown, when a bankruptcy is launched in the company, it says here that it can claim compensation for the last nine months, which will be reduced. You know that within a month, employers' funds go, and for over a month, they go from funds to funds, so it's according to health insurance regulations. How can it happen that someone doesn't account for nine months and doesn't pay compensation for a sick leave from an institution's funds? Two or three provisions that regulate the area say that these funds are paid immediately into a special account, that the set of funds cannot be used for anything else and if they are not used must be returned. It's very strictly controlled as a compensation for sick leave, and you're now saying that someone for months can't receive that fee, and when they get into a situation where there's a bankruptcy in that year, they're paying off a part of what belongs to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11506	Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11507	It's really unusual, and you're right there, but Serbia is a land of wonders. So in Serbia you have a situation as it is possible for a man in a working relationship, for example For the last five years, that his firm has grown into weeds, that he's been led into a working relationship, that he's got a work book, that he hasn't got a dinar, that no contributions have been paid for five years. So how is that possible? Let's split things up. One thing you're talking about is the sick economy, the sick part of the economy that's going on right now, and on the other hand we have a emerging, new, healthy part of the economy, where I expect and we all hope that there will be wages and they're much better, but now there's one important factor. It can't be a country, except maybe Castro's state, I don't know whose, with all the effects to endure. What's the big deal? That there are unions that, by collective agreements, by border, fortifications for living good wages, and the dead will be dead. So you can't drop that part. There is a vast space of human activity that no state, no government can make up for. So, in the living part of the economy is that, and this second thing that everything in Serbia has that doesn't pay, if I told you what it has, you would faint, but that's Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-31-0.u11508	We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The People's Messenger Takach Istvan will first have the word, and after that the Messenger of the people will be prepared.
