ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24131	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP Esad Juddjevic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the pre-reimbursement of the Republic Fund for Pension and INVALID CERTIFICATION OF THE PUBLIC A POLITORS REFERRED TO IN THE BASIC REFERENCE OF NON-PAYMENTS AND MONEY REFERENCES (SITS) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs on the bill: Milorad Krstin, Veroljub Arsic, Zoran Mašić, Paja Momčov, Radiša Ilic, Zoran Antic and Zoran Angelković. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the bill. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Milorad Krstin submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24132	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here's another item on the agenda that's about pensions, just this one time for farmers' pensions. Government members, or Minister Dinkic, are constantly announcing, I believe, for their political points, that these pensions will be paid. It seems to me that in their announcements they do not want to disappoint those who are due to receive these pensions, so they do not want to say that the final payment is in 2010. God forbid someone's waiting for those pensions from a face that needs to be picked up. So, first of all, it's about agricultural pensions, so the first payment is guaranteed by the end of 2007, and it's divided into four wars – one war each year. Here's what it looks like when the government has to pay for something, so it likes to brag about how it's going to pay off and then pass a special law in order to postpone that deadline as much as possible with that payment. At the very least, it's immoral. Why is it immoral? First, because this year's budget funds were to pay back back pensions, both on the basis of work experience and on the basis of agricultural pensions. So we need to secure about 20 billion. We will transfer 31.12.2005 in 2006 about 19 billion dinars, for which there are no items to be spent. There is simply no expenditure item in the 2005 budget. A slightly larger amount will also be transferred in 2007, unless there is a rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The reasons for the behaviour of Minister Dinkic, or his argument, is that if he pays for these pensions that are lagging behind and which he has an obligation to pay, whether this law is passed or not, he will be voted on or not, there will be a disturbance of the almost money on the market, pressure on the stability of the dinars, pressure on the goods, or that a price increase is possible. These are his arguments, which may and may pass to someone who has not completed more than four primary school classes. Then they praised the fact that the Republic of Serbia's foreign reserves are 5.6 billion dinars, with 2.6 times transferring the monetary mass in circulation. Now there's a question of what the foreign reserve is for. They're supposed to be for some kind of dinar stability. If those 20 billion dinars that will be paid as agricultural pensions will endanger the stability of the dinars, why not simply activate those foreign exchange reserves? He claims they don't serve for it. In his explanation, he shows what foreign exchange reserves are for. He said that if Serbia no longer gets the dinars, we have enough foreign reserves to import goods for a wide amount of spending for the next six to eight months. Here's what foreign reserves are for this government and Dinkic, so it's to cover imports. His story that this government is working in the interest of citizens is falling into the water, because if it works in the interest of citizens, these 20 billion dinars would be paid. Then whose interest does Dinkic work? In this case, in the interest of the import lobby. They must be provided with enough foreign exchanges to be able to import goods and make money unhindered. Furthermore, he never wondered what direction this money would be used to pay off those agricultural pensions. Most of all, these same agricultural pensioners have reconciled their tax obligations to the state and these tax obligations have been made since you've been in power since 5 October. In your immorality, you go all the way. Why is it not possible for farmers to decide whether to pay in a pension fund or not? This possibility was not left to them, and you programmeically advocated this and in the pre-election campaign the promise of almost all parties now in the ruling coalition was that agricultural pensions should be on a voluntary basis. Now you've made it possible for them to volunteer by giving them the opportunity or being a natural person, means that they register as entrepreneurs, or that they pay agricultural pensions, with the state telling them how big their pensions will be, how much that tax will be as pension benefits. This is what is immoral in this case by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, when the bill itself is read, it is seen that the government of the Republic of Serbia sees another way, as far as possible, to cut off farmers' pensioners and pensioners in general. This is already seen in the fact that interest is being taken into account on these late pensions from the day when there is a obligation to pay pensions, under this law, means that the government of the Republic of Serbia and Dinkic want to damage the citizens, not from the day of the commitment, means when the pension was to be accepted, and they did not receive it. In your immorality, you go to the point where you say it's only 8.5% on an annual basis. Why isn't that interest applied by the tax administration to those who don't pay taxes on time? Equalize the situation when you owe and when someone owes you. So that's the problem. Are you really optimistic that inflation will be 8.5% next year? That by 2010, inflation won't exceed 8.5% on an annual basis? You're very optimistic. You planned 9.8% for this year, and you've already gone to over 20%. The fact that you put inflation down a little bit through the Republic Statistics Service, that's another thing, but it's already over 20%. One of the reasons for the increase in inflation is the tax laws you have introduced, first of all value added tax, so when we talk about farmers and agricultural pensions, they now pay a value added tax in their history for the first time in their history. So, they pay for everything, no more oil subsidies, no more artificial fertilizer subsidies, no more spare parts, no more nothing. Whoever wants to exercise the right to these subsidies will have to register as an entrepreneur, but everything he manages to achieve through subsidies will be returned through income tax and income tax, so they do not know whether it is worth registering and registering as an entrepreneur or giving up all rights and subsidies. Most of the doubt, since the tax on the added value of the rate of power. Furthermore, in your alleged concern for citizens, you show what is on the following case: we had a rebalance on the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget, so the question is, what about the earnings of those who have lost their jobs in the privatisation process and the salary should be received from the bureau? As far as I'm aware, even those who lost their jobs in May are neatly enlisted at the Bureau, regularly each month going to report their jobless status, do not receive benefits on account of their losing their job, and from the state. You can't say you didn't know how many there were, because you had a rebalance in July 2005. So, by then, you could have identified enough resources for those citizens to receive those salaries on account of their job loss. So there's no, simply, desire. The most important thing is that the state is in debt with loans, and this is large public enterprises, which you will soon privatise, will not remain in state property, but it is important for your new bosses and your bosses to be arranged, that the citizens who work in these companies get kicked out of work and lead to the number that suits your bosses, that these same citizens who have lost their jobs pay back the debts and counter-guarantees we give in the Republic of Serbia, and the new boss to come to an end. So that's where the funds are used to get back to the citizens through pensions, in the first place. And I'd like the minister to answer why he's late for paying off his job, and they're supposed to be paid off from the unemployment bureau based on the years of employment they've been in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24133	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24134	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the amendment, since Minister Dinkic has not apologized to the SRS, I reserve the right whenever I mention his name in the context, if it pleases me, to return it to him with the same measure. The only difference is that any way I can give him back such an epithet is appropriate. Therefore, I reserve the right, when it comes to Mladjan Dinkic, to say that he is a muffler, a hohstappler, a criminal, a bastard and everything else. Here's what Muffraz Minister Mladjan Dinkic is exactly in this law we have an example. You've witnessed the halabuka rise over it – we want to pay for pensions, radicals don't give, radicals keep the session, we can't pass the law by which we're going to pay. And when the same law is looked at, instead of paying pensioners, in this case to farmers, it pays off on 1 January 2006, as it was here, one-fifth, the first payment to farmers will start on 1 January 2007. Now it's not a fifth, it's a quarter, and a half-foot of 8%, and the law by which they could pay off all the outstanding debts so far... And, to be clear, these debts have occurred since 2001, since the arrival of the Bulldozer of the Revolution, ever since you came here on the wings of your West, when you spoke, you have impoverished the pensioners. Now you're denying them one-fifth of what they should have been given in a year's time. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, who, I will not use the epithet, boast that there are billions of budget surpluses, while at the same time pensioners to farmers (to be clear, these are small pensions, I don't believe they cross 8,000) are paying off, but they extend their debt until 2010. You won't rule in 2006, don't burden people with those debts you made; in 2006, no grass, you leave the political scene. National MP Milorad Krstin has submitted an amendment asking that full pension payments be paid to farmers from the beginning of 2006 to the end of 2006. Just like that, what you've already robbed for these five years and the money you've been serving, you'll be returning to the pensioners for five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24135	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24136	Since it is finally clear to all of us that the opposition does not depend on pension payments, that the opposition does not depend either on the settlement of debt towards pensioners and on all those to whom the state owes, since it is clear, since it is clear that one third greater than one-sixth, and we are finally done, with this mathematics, to move on to this second public debt law. Mr. Arsic has submitted an amendment to Article 2, where this idea of how to pay off the debt in a specific way within a year. So the payment would start in March 2006, and the last war would be worth it in December 2006. It would normally be paid at one quarter of that debt, with a far higher interest rate, increased by interest rate at a small rate at a monthly level from the moment of the commitment to the day of payment. That's a far higher percentage than 8.5%. Now let's go back to something that might look like a principle debate over this bill. So, about two months ago, there was an epochal law on the agenda, and the law stipulates that a complete debt for farmers is becoming public debt, so that bonds are issued and with different maturity periods, so that the debt is closed in February 2006. After a month and a half, the government remembered that an even more epic thing was to settle the debt from 1 January 2006, until the final payment in 2010. As set out in 2010, this could mean in December 2006, by being in Article 2. The bill was given some dynamics, and it does not move on 1 January 2006, but practically starts in 2007. You don't even say the moon. So the government gives itself for its own debt some kind of stand-by arrangement and this isn't really a public debt law, this is a law on debt reprogramming in a very interesting way. The basic proposal would be 48 months per fifth, and now it goes about five years, or six months, with payment going in the last four years with one quarter, and in 2006 nothing. If from this math, and we were convinced in the principle debate that it's positive mathematics, someone can find something positive, then it's an honor. What else would I point to for this amendment to Article 2? A bill of law? We suggest a different dynamic. We have cover for this proposal. The coverage for this proposal is found in the fact that it was surplus in 2005. This literally means that this year the state has made so much money, i.e. it has provided so much public revenue that when it settles all public expenditures remains. Since such a situation is, in principle, a priority, the state needs to settle its obligations to citizens, this obligation on the basis of a state guarantee, where the state guarantees the stability of the fund that regulates PIO farmers. I have to say that this fund was imposed on farmers back in 1985. The fund was meant to be on the principles of volunteering, but that year some policy concluded that after compulsory health insurance for farmers should go with mandatory PIO, and even some boasted, however, a year and a half later it was seen that the concept of compulsory pension-inhabitation insurance for farmers was a missed concept. You saw it right away. It's been going on for about 20 years on that system. It's probably a lot of work now, and many people, believing in the law, expect some right; now making some transformation is very difficult, or it's possible, but this government isn't thinking that way. He just doesn't want to deal with these problems. What will happen on the first checks since January of 2006? It will happen that in February of the month, when pensions are paid, on the check that it stands that pensions are paid for January 2006, and this debt, I think it is 22 and a half pension, is practically defined and increased by the corresponding interest, as it is proposed here, and practically, if it is given the interest rate that is proposed, then the real amount falls. The value of this money falls realistically compared to the day that the debt in the quarters is offset. I'd just like to remind you that this law ends another very big thing for the state and this whole law is, in fact, a law that helps the government and the state. This isn't a law that helps pensioners. Last time we didn't criticise you very much about this law, but we asked that equal deadlines be made available for the payment of bonds to be issued, that retired farmers and retired workers who were once employed be in the same position. We just put that remark on, and we didn't object to anything else. Now we have to tell what's behind all this and this operation with the first and second laws. So the state wants to protect, above all, some of its interests; these are not the interests of this government and this state, these are the interests of the IMF, because it dictates macroeconomic policy and wants this law to prevent possible disputes. This law stops, if I may say so, applying the right interest or interest rates to something that is long. This gets some special status. The state, i.e. this government, can boast that pensioners receive pensions in February, and when it is said, you are in debt 20 and some pensions, it says - we regulated this with a special law. In this way, in fact, a few provisions of the Law on PIO are denied. First, that provision is denied, I think it's Article 108, which prescribes that early next month, pensions are paid for the previous month. I must say, once again, there will be an unequal situation between farmers and pensioners who were formerly employed, for the simple reason that the debt period is different. It's a month and a half, and it's 22 and a half months. And you can see for yourself that now that pensioners are getting, or these months when retired farmers were getting pension checks and pension papers, they were getting that to apply to some month of some year, about before this government was formed. This law will clear that part, so it will be in February to receive a January pension. They're probably counting on her to be a little higher, so the government's stopping some pension growth. It will appear to be higher in February, because it follows some adjustment, so there will be some slightly higher amount than the one that would be if a regular month for a month paid out. In view of all this, we suggest that during 2006 you carry out this recovery and pay off all the outstanding pensions to the pensioners of the farmers, because you claim that there is a means to do so. You claim there's a means to it. It's a surplus. You planned the surplus for 2006 as well. All you need to do is talk a little bit to these IMF officials of yours, to tell them openly – this government will fall if the debt settlement priority is to be some obligation to the IMF; therefore we are forced (this is what I now suggest you tell them) to pay off these pensions, to ensure how much stability we have and to deceive future voters for future elections to give us trust. This is how you run for your IMF sponsors, since you and Boris Tadic are a guarantee of stability that the IMF, NATO Pact and others who bombed us to be consistently implemented in this space. I suggest you do. You can boast freely in this way, no one will resent you in Serbia, because all people know it, but if it's at least some use, to pay these people off that pension that's lagging behind, you've done a really good job. Maybe you'll trick one of these and then vote for you, 'cause obviously you're taking care of these things. In the end, I would like to say that paying out pensions under neither this law nor the previous one depends on the Serbian Radical Party. Debt can be settled without these laws. Both of these laws are essentially not necessary, not the one from two months ago, not this one, only that the government had the courage, courage, and the desire to settle the debt, before it boasted that it had a terrible surplus. Just to remind you that this is the first government in history to provide such a significant surplus. You know, there's been some suggestions for the Nobel Prize that would be epochal. And I believe in what you said was a surplus, and I believe there's a possibility that you can settle this debt. I encourage you, feel free to settle your debt to the pensioners. The Serbian Radical Party will not call you for this, will not find any breach of any process, any law. When you have a surplus, act surplus. You meet all your obligations to the citizens, and this is specifically about pensioners. At the very least, we'll applaud with the pensioners. But don't go with a story about a big surplus at the same time, and then you're making bill proposals where you're looking for debt reprogramming, with a reduction of the country's real obligations to pensioners, or a reduction of real claims based on unpaid pensions, and then you're still mad at someone for criticizing you and for someone to move a little bit of that dirt to see what kind of operation is going on in your direction. Since we have really come into a big dispute over this, I call on representatives of G17 plus, since we promised them, we 15 minutes after the amendment, you 15 minutes after the amendment, come out and tell us what the quality of your proposal is, or what better your proposed Article 2 is. A bill of law from what we propose with our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24137	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24138	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to explain the essence of my amendment and what the Serbian Radical Party stands for when it comes to paying back pensions to farmers. As you might have noticed, the starting point of our pledge was just shown surplus in the Republic of Serbia's 2005 budget and especially the projected surplus in the 2006 budget. As I recall, when we were making a budget for 2006 and we were discussing it, there was a surplus of 39,560,212,000 dinars planned here for this speaker by the finance minister. If the surplus is realistically projected and if you think it's a real achievement, then it really has a basis to pay off the debt to the most vulnerable population in our country, and that's what nursing households are. So farmers, so those who are hard to process their fields, because they either don't have the machinery, or that mechanism is as old as they are, especially if it's the debt the state has to the farmers, as it is here, 20 billion dinars. If you suggest that these 20 billion dinars are paid only from 2007, until 2010, and in this year we had inflation, let it be 18% or 20%, as it is officially operated, and if the inflation is projected for the next year, it's here at budget breakdown, and the projected inflation for 2006 is 9.3%, with these 18 or 20%, it's 25 or 27% of inflation in this year and next year, for so much it's worth the 20 billion dinars. So if you stay on what you're proposing, the farmers won't be able to get in 2007, they won't be able to get in the next three years, maybe four, 20 billion, but in 2007, they'll be less than 15 billion. Do you feel that you are doing farmers a favor by essentially reprogramming, as Mr Krasic said, this debt, not that you really want to pay off and really help these farmers who live on the edge of existence? Therefore, there is a basis absolutely to accept what we propose as a parliamentary group, that these pensioners are paid pensions in this year, so that debt to be paid, and our argument is that 94% of these pensioners receive the lowest pension. The lowest pension in this country is 25% of the average personal income of workers. If we take the average personal income of this month to 17,800 dinars, the lowest pension is about 4,5,000 dinars. Do you really think someone with 4,000 dinars in the house, where one or two pensioners with 9,000 dinars, can survive? And anyway, how they're going to live in 2007, which is going to be the pension height; it's going to be about this level that you're proposing, this month by month, that this debt starts to come back from 2007. I don't think you have a fair relationship with farmers, with those who have maintained this country for the past 15 years. If nothing else, farmers did not allow the people of this country to starve through inflation, through wars, but worked hard and some gained pension rights in the meantime. I think it's fair for the state to repay them, especially a country that already makes a surplus, so it has a positive business, it becomes rich, it becomes a country that fits into those who have a good economy, and on the other hand, it's not generous to its citizens. Unrealized and interest which you want to increase these funds by 8.5% over four years. If inflation is already projected, according to you, according to the Government, 9.3% in 2006, why didn't you increase at least in 2006 by projected inflation, not 8.7, what did you suggest, or 8.5? Why didn't you at least in 2006, if you had already projected inflation at 9.3, go to 9.3? You're consciously going to cut those funds. It is also unrealistic that inflation should be 4.5 in 2008. I don't know what this assessment is based on, what macroeconomic policy you're going to lead to to achieve such low inflation growth in this country. I think it's unrealistic and God forbid we stay in one digit and don't go over 10%, and it was a terrible promise and a lie, when we discussed the 2005 budget here, that it wouldn't break those 10%; now it's not mentioned, and no one is held responsible for why inflation is so much this year. I want to say that in addition to this relationship with the pensioners of farmers, unfortunately, and through the conduct of the agrarian government policy, this elderly population has been particularly affected, because it is precisely these nursing households that receive the least incentive measures, where it is true, in the past two or three years, in the greater extent of the individuality for farmers, but still only certain people get it. The funds have been allocated over the past two years to 10 billion dinars. The state's public did not know who these people who received the funds were, and loans were shared between 5,000 and 200,000 euros. I would like at least for one or five farmers in this country, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government say -- these are farmers who have received 100, 150 or 200,000 euros, who in five years' time will have their work and engagement, as they should have capital and potential and how much land they have, what a cattle fund, what a mechanism to make in five years, and especially where the grace period of a year is, that they will return in five years and that those funds will continue to be used. Unfortunately, knowledge has been made clear both to the Minister of Agriculture and indirectly to the Prime Minister, that these funds have been received again by people belonging to the ruling parties. I fear that this agrarian policy and what the state is doing and sharing the money to farmers will fail in a significant extent, as the "green plans" and many other moves and investments in agriculture have failed, because there is no transparency. He's kept under wraps, with an explanation that it's not in line with the banking laws and regulations and that it can't be disclosed and said who are these people who've been getting such enormous amounts of credit, and how they're going to pay back anyway. The obligation was, above all, for the Ministry of Agriculture to carry out a verification of the use of these funds after half a year after the allocation of the incentive funds. The Committee on Agriculture sought information on the subject, to be informed which checks were made and whether certain irregularities were identified. We asked to form one committee of three members, and we asked the minister to choose people, and we have not yet realised it by not the error of the minister, but by the error of the MP from the Committee on Agriculture. Rest assured, we will do so and, if nothing, inform the public through it. Agricultural policy does not take care of nursing households. They can hardly improve agricultural production. The rural agricultural promotion project is funded, which is good, for young people who remain on agricultural land. They're farmers up to 40 years old and we say hello, they should be funded. In the long-term development policy of agriculture, i.e. The agriculture development strategy was presented by the Ministry of Agriculture, and ultimately the government adopted it, that there would be much more important concerns about the nursing households. This policy does not give good signals to young people to stay in the country, because if their future and perspective will be to live off a pension of several thousand dinars, then many will wonder if they should stay on agricultural land and deal with agriculture. We are all witnesses that our villages are dying, even in cereals like Vojvodina, but also in Machva and Šumadia, where there is an increasing number of nursing households. This country must be more concerned about the fact that more young people remain on that agricultural land and that it is promoted by agricultural production, food production, above all, but that these nursing households that are on the verge of existence and are barely putting an end to the end. Therefore, we will strive to change what has been proposed by this law and to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party and make an effort to pay the debt earned on the basis of pensions in the past period to farmers, because it has grounds for such a thing. I guess these citizens will figure out the lies that were brought out of this booth that the SRS is obstructing the adoption of these laws, so that, for God's sake, pensioners or farmers are not given pensioners. I think through our discussions and discussions, we can testify to who's telling the truth and who's not telling the truth. If the finance minister goes to Subotica, in the municipality and says – you have the right to receive as transfers about 100 and something million dinars, I give you another 120 or 150 million, as if it were his money, why is he not so generous to agricultural producers. We don't support such a policy and we can't ever support it, it's at the expense of this country. Think well, you who should vote and support this law, I think it has a basis to accept our proposal to accept the amendment and to pay the debt to farmers in 2006, according to the dynamics we have proposed, and not to be extended until 2010, especially to pay off from 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24139	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will make some equivalents in relation to your work and engagement, which is all of us here, in order to make it clear to the farmers who are dealing with Serbia today and who are MPs of the assembly majority who will vote in the day to vote on such a dynamic, proposed by the minister who is here and who I do not want to mention the name of Minister Lalovic, the payments of late agricultural pensions. When the news came out in September that the Republic government was going to start paying back back pensions to farmers, of course, there was not a word about this fraud, a fraud called in 2007, a period of three years, how long it would take to pay off those pensions, a neighbor in my village, a congratulating housekeeper, a neighbor Cana asked me – if that is the case and if the finance minister owes me 73 and a few thousand dinars (it was in early September, because she came for coffee and brought her last check), so I can expect to recapture something in the house. Because she is one of the examples of Professor Mašić – a typical nursing home, she and her husband, in the late years, are doing great work, great pain and every new thing in the house of such a rural household, such as the case of the distinguished lady, is a real joy and something they can call for their household capital investment, because they are fighting for naked life and survival. So, a simple reproduction, which they somehow manage to maintain with the feeding of the stock they have, with the processing of the land. I don't know if you've had enough of the Christmas case at Topola, where three years ago, a primary school that worked for a hundred years was shut down. So, the school, on the eve of the centennial celebration, is completely shut down because the other nursing households are left. If you were to pass through Topola-Kragujevac, then through the fertile forest, and that village, anyone who came from the side would say, what kind of Switzerland, what other promised areas and countries you're talking about, this is a paradise on earth, and this is where you should live and work. However, this is impossible because the Republic government, its prime minister and resolution ministers, the Minister of Agriculture, do not have any serious strategy for what they are doing with agriculture in the coming years and is one of the strategic branches to be invested in, but not just for the sake of sustainable development of agriculture, as it is said, but to complete restructuring by agriculture branches based on regional representation of certain agricultural branches. Because the most basic source of income in my area is vegetables, pastures and farmland near West Morava does not mean that this same route should be followed by farmers in the area where fruit is an imperative agricultural branch, which is also completely beyond the five-octobaric coup, because people have been deceived and none of them have received these strategic loans. When you go to the local election campaign, you have done so now and in Bačka Palanca, so it was convincingly defeated by the Serbian Radical Party, as well as Kuli, especially in the place of Russian Krstur, you keep talking – we will only show up at the Ministry in a few days, to grant you agricultural loans. People come and there's nothing from that job. Those who have done this with a hard time acquired it, singled out at high tax rates and contributions to the Agricultural Pensions Fund, can't understand that this is how, mildly speaking, a monstrous proposal, to use the word that would make one of you the roughest, someone can give people who are waiting for pensions, to be over 70 years old, and now to be told that in 2007, they will start paying off these back-up pensions. In the meantime, Mr. Lalovic, you have to answer, because it's one of the information that follows this pompous announcement of pension payments to farmers since 2007, and you've been making money all over the country, and we've searched your entire Republic budget for 2006, not only for a 21-billion surplus to appear... So, this way I'm telling the farmers, you can immediately pay at least half their debt, or the entire debt, in 2006, only if you want to, and obviously you won't, but to torture them, pressure them, and see who survives by 2007, because people get sick in the country and don't have any drugs, they don't have the basic means to live. Here, the climate and Professor Poscurica, it comes from the rural environment, his parents and today live and work in the country. What would his father Liven do with some poor pensioner if it wasn't for the doctor's help, not buying him drugs and everything he needs for an old and sick man or other people in the country? There are examples like that in the village of Klock near Topola. The doctor, who is an honorary man, a member of the SRS, with his family returned to the village to live and work, wanting to contribute to the development of the village, although he does not work there in the infirmary, at the health center, but travels to Smederjevska Palanka to work. There's a lot of people like that. Instead of thinking about doing it quickly, at least for the villages that rely on the city, gasification, making the necessary infrastructure and making it possible to develop it, you're talking about how you're going to pay back pensions to farmers since 2007. It's that a man doesn't believe. Now let me do some equivalents. The vast majority of you are not in session today, 11.02 hours. I am deeply interested in what will happen today with the balance of the congregation register. I'm telling you this not only because of the superman, but also because of others who are getting some compensation for their big and hard work here. I always appreciate and respect the MP who sits here, who listens and who's willing to argue to defend what he is, the way he is, the ruling group, but the unemployed and those who beat up empty straw, what my Sumadinians would say, and for that they're taking huge compensations, to ask if they know how much money can be made to grow 10-20 pigs today. If we knew what the price is right now the live measures of pigs at the market, here, it's some rewarding question for bingo or for a millionaire, they have no idea. Here, I'll tell you - 130, at best 140 dinars. Young people, like my brother from my uncle and his wife, who stayed to live in the country and were educated, were able to go to town after high school and live in the city of the municipality – the Čačak municipality, or go to the nearby Kingdom. They wanted me to show and grow cattle and through the production of vegetables that they wanted to stay and train their two children. What did they earn? They have earned poor 200 euros to raise 15 or 20 pigs. If someone asks you what the situation is and how your budgets are, you don't care, you think, especially those who have it on the agenda during the Christmas post, how many pigs and lambs you're going to eat, and to produce it and sell it at the market, you're not interested in it at all. What you're going to do for a few months, and it's a very risky outcome, are you like them to earn 200 euros, you care about it, but come on, we're going to push buttons, we're going to vote, come in 2007, so whoever gets past, gets ahead, who, by the way, don't God, finish his life span, that's why the work is long gone, no one sees him. Mr. Lalovic, you're not here right now, like this other fellow minister of yours who's talking about, because I'm not going to mention his name, just like the MPs of the SRS, it's about to come up with interest on the coming wars, or on these pensions, now let's tell us nicely, probably he's informed you what interest it will be and what interest will be applied, which has been applied since the day the pensions have been delayed? The farmers would be delighted to know that they will be paid the entire debt in 2006, which is financially possible, given the state of budget and projection for 2006, I repeat again, and if you would give them the interest these banks are asking for, which is diverse across Serbia, for cash loans that they can restore to the stock fund, to buy something in the house, or for loans, and these interest rates are 25 percent on an annual basis. You do a good calculation now, because they must in the meantime be in charge of buying something, in order to have basic living conditions, if they can't earn from their painful, hard and bloody sweat and work, to have interest on them so much, or to apply this non-existent interest in the law you apply when you're calculating outstanding taxes and other taxes to the state. You also account today in the administration of income interest of 0.2%, and this does not exist, I say to you, responsibly, in neither of those 2001 Djelic's laws. For who knows what time I repeat, the minister who is here deliberately avoids giving the answer to that question, just as Djelic did while he was finance minister, because the interest cannot be applied by law because an amendment to the SRS was adopted, with some mere set of circumstances and in 2001, which says nicely that the future heavy tax interest and all other payments to the state will be calculated at the escont rate of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Serbia, or through the alignment of the cost-to-peak growth. That's a lot less than the billing of this kind of interest, which also these farmers, the heavy martyrs, under this authority and under the previous one, have to pay for their dues, and you're humiliating them and telling them that they're going to start paying their pensions since 2007. It is more than clear that you do not want well for them, and therefore not for Serbia, because agriculture is one of the leading branches in our economy, which the responsible authorities would have to take care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24141	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. You've got less than 2.5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24142	Mr. Chairman, three minutes is enough for me to say what I think of this law and its proposer. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, look who it is. I will read Article 4 which is amended, as it says - in order to settle obligations on persons who exercise rights under this law on the basis of outstanding pensions, etc. bonds under Article 1 (hereinafter: bonds) will be settled for each user, in height and according to the following dynamics: on 20 February 2006, one fifth of the debt they have made to farmers since 2000. The member who is proposed, and who is likely to adopt the ruling majority, writes that the first payment in 2007 is one quarter of the total amount for the beneficiary of the rights increased by 8%, in inflation of 20%, etc. And interest has been charged since 1 January 2006. So they didn't even write when payment will start in 2007; it could be in December, but it's already on the threshold in 2008. I'm not surprised he doesn't give money, but I'm surprised by Minister Lalovic; however, he no longer surprises me, the other day he said he would lift past work. The removal of the right for workers who have worked for 40 years or 30 years and have achieved 0.5%. Is there anything, Minister Lalovich, that you'll give? How many more suspensions? With this bill to farmers, the one we don't want to mention to him, I can say hohstappler, but I won't, he went to a pre-election campaign in Backo Palanka – here, we give you, and the radicals don't give you. Here's how much they give you. What was supposed to be given to you in 2006 he paid you in 2007, and it doesn't say when in 2007. (President: Time.) ) It says that it accounts for an interest of 8.5%, in inflation of 20%, until now, by the new year, when statistics are reduced, unless they take off, as much as they think they're going to go through with the people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, you from the ruling coalition, I think the most honest thing you could do would be that for this law and for this robbery above all farmers, and that's the same law where it comes to paying off the debt to other pensioners, you don't vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24143	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Radisa Ilic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radisa Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24144	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The draft law, which reads in Article 2(2) of the first indent of the 3rd word "in 2009" is replaced by the words "in September 2006". Today, Serbian Radical Party MPs say all of this most because of the citizens of Serbia, and it is the pensioner, hoping to see that only the SRS advocates solutions that are best for pensioners. Today, there is neither Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic nor anyone from the finance ministry, however, there is Minister Lalovic, but it still shows how much the government respects the National Assembly, or citizens of Serbia. The category of pensioners most vulnerable in Serbia is certainly agricultural pensioners, as they are owed 20 pensions. There must certainly be another and faster way to pay off that great delay. The finance minister is constantly boasting about the surplus this year of 39 billion, but he can't spend it. So it takes 21 billion dinars to pay off these back-up pensions, or to pay off other social benefits. When it comes to various agencies, councils, offices, the situation is very different and there are always funds for them in the budget. Instead of dissipating the debt to farmers in a shorter period, they will have to wait five years to get what they belong to, as if they forget that it is a category of old people who need each dinar, given how expensive treatment, transportation, food is today, etc. On the other hand, these agricultural pensioners, who are the beneficiaries of this fund, are exposed to drastic tax duties. First of all, I think of those farmers who are making some agricultural production, who are literally forced to register as a farm owner just so that they can spend some money on contributions or, better said, taxes. Also, many agricultural pensioners live alone in the country, usually forgotten by everyone, and these pensions come to them as the only income they somehow barely survive from. Article 2 leaves them to wait until 2010 to get what they belong to. This is how the Ministry of Finance knowingly contributes to shutting down the few villages and villages far from the urban centers. When one of those farm pensioners dies, it's a real mystery when the PIO Agricultural Fund will remember to pay back their families' back pensions. It is another additional fact to support the argument that this amendment should be adopted, which would meet a large number of agricultural pensioners. Defeating our pensioners is the condition of the IMF, and knowing that the government and Dinkic oppose the IMF's worse mentioned, it is unlikely that our pensioners will be able to expect a favourable outcome for themselves. Dinkic does not care whether someone in the West from the banking lobby has registered a transitional grade for blind obedience and destruction of Serbia's financial system. So, instead of the planned 2009 war, this amendment proposes paying off commitments to agricultural pensioners for September 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24145	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24146	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out again several segments of this legislative proposal that I disagree with and with which the SRS parliamentary group disagrees and which we pointed out in the principle debate. However, it seems to me that it is not enough or that it is not taken seriously. First, this is about the public debt of the Republic of Serbia towards pensioners, and this is about the law that we just finished the previous day, about the debt to the so-called so-called. workers' pensioners. Namely, it's a debt, which means there's a confidence-debt relationship. There are two sides: one is a trustee, it's pensioners in this case, the other is in debt, and that's in this case state. It doesn't make sense, and it's not clear how a debtor can prescribe rules by which he will repay his debt to the trustee. If the two sides are in one relationship, then there should be an agreement that will accept both sides and establish the dynamics of the repayment of the debt under that agreement. This is where the state took the right to make its own hat for the pensioners, to determine the dynamics of payouts, deadlines, amounts, interest and thus repay it. It's abnormal to do it that way, it's not good to have a return made this long, especially for farmers' pensioners, and it's not good for interest to determine the debtor, the state in this case, and that interest to be at least twice as low as inflation in this year, and it's likely to be in the coming years as well. That's the first thing I wanted to point out. The other thing is, it doesn't make sense, and it's a grudge to the president of the assembly, that we don't have a minister again, and we don't have anyone from the Ministry who can pass this on to the minister. It's logical that the minister sits here when we talk about amendments, try to find some solution that's in the interest of these citizens. It's a category of people who are in their late years, mostly over 70 years, people who may not be waiting for the first war, let alone the last 2010. It's logical that the minister sits here and we try to find a common solution, to the pleasure of position and opposition, and most of all to those who depend on this for anyone. I thought in the debate, we explained enough to the citizens who are interested in what's going on here. Unfortunately, yesterday I realized it wasn't because I heard from my parents who are users of this right, saying they'd win at the end of this month the first war of that debt. They heard it on TV, saw it from Minister Dinkic. I'm asking you and I'm asking the Minister not to deceive the citizens. He probably said it in two senses, so the pensioners realized they were going to win the first war at the end of this year. I must say once again, although we have all talked about this for two days, that the pensioners of farmers will not get anything this year, they will not get anything next year and, following these amendments to the laws that are now on the agenda, what was due to arrive in February 2006 will arrive in 2007. Minister Dinkic deceives citizens because he says radicals prevent the adoption of this law and thus prevent the payment of debt to pensioners. If there were logic, if there were reason in this assembly, then MPs would vote against these amendments and thus allow agricultural pensioners to win the first war on February 20th, as foreseen in the basic text of the law. This way, if you adopt these amendments and supplement the law, then agricultural pensioners will win the first war in the best case of a year and a month, and worst case scenario in two years. The first war in two years, which is probably more likely than this most favourable case. In these changes, the government proposed that the dynamics of payments be determined in fact by the government and the dynamics were not determined at all by this bill. It has been deleted from the existing law, there are no precise deadlines. It remains for the government to decide when it will do so, whether it will do so one time during 2007, suddenly pay off that first war, or whether it will be from five, six, or who knows how many wars it will pay. I ask the MPs, given that the minister does not have and that it is pointless to talk about it, to think about this, the MPs of the majority, since the MPs of the SRS will vote against such a law, that we do not discriminate against a category of citizens of this country. In this way we place more than 200,000 people into second-class citizens, and this is about the most endangered people, the most endangered category of people, who are over 70 years old at this point. Which of them will experience the first war in two years is the question, and the last 2010 issue is not to talk about it. Finally, I am interested, in September an existing law was passed, which envisioned bonds, so the law ordered that this debt be returned through bonds to be distributed to pensioners, former employees and agricultural pensioners. I'm interested, I have information that these bonds have already been printed, who's guilty or who's responsible for that expense and what's the cost. Printing a million-and-a-half bonds isn't cheap, it's probably very expensive, someone made that decision by law, someone made that decision, because it's a legal obligation. After a month and a half, he gives up that idea and all of it has to be destroyed and thrown away, and the money's spent for it. I am interested, and this may be a parliamentary issue, since the minister is not here, whether the bonds provided for by the existing law and how much it cost the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24147	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government has not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24148	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is extremely unhappy with this bill because these solutions are no better than the previous ones. And with the previous solution, the agricultural pensioners were cut off, they still have extremely low pensions, and this solution makes the situation worse. Since you have already decided on the bonds to be paid to pensioners, we could possibly expect as some improvement in the bonding of these foreign exchange bonds, so the pensioners would certainly be in a position to cash these bonds very easily and quickly in each bank in Serbia; regardless of the bonds for a large number of them are unknown, they would be able to manage very quickly when it comes to money. I would like to say that the old foreign savings bonds with the 2010 payout are charged at 75% of the actual value. And the pensioners would then really be in a position to decide whether to charge the debt owed to them by a small part immediately, with a certain loss, or to wait possibly in 2010. I'm sure most of them, given the years, would have decided to charge that debt immediately, even if it was a loss of about 20-30%. This is how you left them in a situation where they have to respect these deadlines that are ahead of us, with extremely unfavourable interest, given what my predecessors have already said about inflation. There's no reason for inflation to be less in the next year and the next year than it is this year. The fact is that this is a generic inflation since 2000, primarily through an unrealistic course policy, and that in the coming years we will be in a position to fight inflation. Besides, it's not just our country's problem, it's the problem of all transition countries, and we shouldn't fool pensioners with this amount of interest. He's too small. Only in the coming year, 2006 will it be likely to lose ten, twelve percent of its basic debt, and will not win the first pension war, and in the coming year the loss will also be significant. All in all, by 2010, they will likely lose about 40-50 percent of the debt the state has towards them, and this is an unmatchedly worse solution than that we have made through bonds, guaranteed by a single foreign exchange clause, to pay off these pensions, or debt to pensioners. It is obvious that this debt is being reduced in all ways to pensioners as little as possible, and it is primarily about farmers who are extremely hard to live and who may be the biggest transition losers of these previous years, because you put them in a position to fight for the world prices you have formed on the basis of an unreal course, on the one hand, and you have also exposed them to unheard competition by liberalising imports of agricultural products, everything and everything in Serbia. On the other hand, the cost of the instructions, the repromaterials, followed the rise in inflation. In scissors between prices and costs, farmers today are not in a position to earn anything. Most of them can't even contribute to social security, so unfortunately, we've come into a situation where they can't even be treated, to get medications, basic health care to provide themselves. With this bill, what the state owes them and possibly some possibility that they had through paying off that debt to provide themselves with the treatment, they lost, so that we all have a bad solution, which the SRS has proved, for an hour and a half, the minister that will only mean a reduction in the amount that the state owes to the pensioners. We end up inviting MPs from other political parties to accept such solutions, because this is not in the citizens' interest, and in this case, farmers' pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24149	The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to bring just one more addition to what I have not said during the debate on the amendment that I have submitted, and it is a lack of care or concern about farmers who have already retired or have gained the right to retire. In fact, this well-deserved pension of theirs, the payment of that well-deserved pension is being extended, and we all know that these people are extremely hard to live for. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture had an obligation this year to pass a law on agricultural land, as this was under the projection of the Ministry of Agriculture in a firm announcement, and that law would now significantly facilitate the life and processing of agricultural land held by the old rural households. The proposal or draft law on agricultural land gives the possibility to rent land. We know that these nursing households are extremely difficult to process their own country, or they are not processing it, or they are doing it unqualityly, or they are renting it to any kind of mechanics for small money, and the proposal for a law on agricultural land should legally regulate the lending of land, which, firstly, would increase the area of farmland, and on the other hand, the land of these agricultural producers. I am taking this opportunity when we are discussing agricultural producers to remind above all the Minister of Agriculture, but also the Government of the obligation they have made with their programme, and at the end of the long-term strategy for the development of agriculture, to let go of the procedure and to bring into this assembly a law on agricultural land. This would significantly make life easier for these very old agricultural holdings. I felt that for the sake of the public, first of all, and the importance of the topic that we are discussing, it was important that people know that this ruling majority of the promises that comes first of all to farmers is not even close, especially to the dynamics they are proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24151	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24152	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, here, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I can say that when it comes to this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for PIO farmers made on the basis of outstanding pensions and fines, I believe that Mr. Minister should be honored and listened to the amendments submitted by the MPs of the SRS. This desire to help the nursing households under whom there is a debt on the basis of outstanding pensions would be good if it only happened in the first half of 2006, not to drag it to 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. My fellow MPs from the SRS, explaining these earlier amendments, have made it very clear, but since the minister is not here, nor any of his associates, I don't know if it will be transferred at all, that it is the question of pensions of those farmers who are at the end of their lifetime. I'm afraid, like most of them, that many of those farmers who expect those pensions may not even be waiting for them. The ministry could deal with you, more seriously, to take this problem, as they said they wanted to correct, from some previous authorities. But I have to say that agriculture was the one carrying this country when it was the hardest, when it was sanctions and now after the sanctions in the last five years it's been wearing this country on its shoulders. We expected a lot more from some strategic long-term plan of the Ministry of Agriculture in the development and resolution of all that is happening, as far as agriculture itself is concerned. However, this ministry, including this government, a strategic and long-term plan on revitalisation, has no way of reviving agriculture. This could be interpreted by seeing in particular that the pension itself is divided into four years, when we see that the Government of those who would get it stimulated by calculating the interest of 8.5% or, as said the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture Zoran Mašić, why not use it, if we already know that the plan for the future rate of inflation is going to be slightly higher. Therefore, I think we need to look at this situation in terms of agriculture, we need to see that agriculture has lost a lot with some measures, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, which is that in 2006, we are losing sunflower premiums, for soybeans, we are on the way to another very important item that makes agriculture, which is in a difficult and bad situation; we are leading to an even worse position of farmers. We don't even have the security of this government to come out and say – you see, you have the protection price of wheat, you can't be, you have the protective price of sunflower, you can't be below it, you have the protection price of corn, you have the price of sugar tail, and below it can't be, you have the protection price of soybean, you can't be. However, this government has allowed farmers to deal with themselves, to manage as they know and can. I hope you will have so much understanding for the amendments submitted by the SRS, accept them and thus only show a part of the goodwill for the future lives of farmers and the development of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24153	Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 4th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Social Protection and Security of Social Security of the City (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarović, Natasa Jovanovic, Vjera Radeta, Miroslav Nedeljković and Rajko Baralić, as well as the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. You have received reports from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the proposings and of the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible, so I find that this amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate on this law, we said three of the most important things. So, in addition to the one-time assistance of these endangered persons, their physical access to objects that are not available to them is necessary, so that in this context, when it comes to an object, some space, there is a need to think about it. Of course, something has already been done about the city of Belgrade, but other cities in Serbia must also take account. It should also be pointed out that this assistance to our endangered citizens... However, this year many initiatives are being launched, many actions, humanity is at a high level, but I would like to take advantage of one situation and ask all MPs, we have been informed that Marko Teodorovic is in cardiac surgery, so I would ask all the parties to show humanity in action too, by seizing two journals and giving it to this young man who is fighting for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24155	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 140(5), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs. The committee's representative accepted the amendment at the Committee's session, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24156	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are coming up with that crucial problem for the citizens of Serbia, which has also been tormented by pensioners who have so far been spoken of, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is deluded in establishing all these "gives" games with citizens; it is being manipulated by numbers and data that uninformed citizens can be mistaken that it is a good attempt and the intention of the promoter, which in this case does not apply, and that is why I, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, had to react in Article 4, in fact to a new Article 25a, in Article 5. In order to know what this is about, it is about the right to an increased allowance for the assistance and care of another person and is now said by Article 23 of the basic law who has the right to do so, the percentage of the established physical damage, the persons who, according to the PIO rules, are entitled to a cash compensation for the assistance and care of the other person, and they also meet all previous views. Article 3 is then defined as applying for the grant of this aid and that the application is given to the competent social labour centre and that the aid is recognised by the PIO regulations from the date of submission. It is then well said in the following view that the monthly amount of an increased allowance for the assistance and care of another person is determined as 70 % of the average monthly earnings, excluding taxes and contributions made per employee, beware, in the Republic in 2005. It's the first thing where deception is hidden, and in the way of determining aid, citizens will certainly be denied. "The determined amount of an increased allowance for the assistance and care of another person under Article 4 is harmonised on 1 January and 1 July of the current year," only twice a year. Now we come up with a key thing, which I ask to change, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, where the following sentence is said: "based on the data of the authority responsible for statistical affairs", means the republican statistical institution, "with a life cost index in the previous six months. "Oh, it's not possible, Minister Lalovic. I want you to tell us how life costs are moving based on this falsified statistical performance in six months of the year, which is the percentage of inflation being incorporated and whether they're covered exactly, the way they work, the real cost of life; that you want to say realistically, what you don't, we're going to find out that it's all a lie and a delusion. That's why I asked you to take instead of so-called. In the index of cost of life, these givings are consistent with the increase of the average earnings in the Republic. If you look at the Life Cost Index in Serbia in six months and look at what that list looks like (each of you can go on the website of the Republic Statistics Office, here today, to get out what it looks like in the past month) you will see that absolutely nothing has changed in the past six months, or minimally. There is no increase in the price of edible oil, sugar, meat, dried meat products, utility services, electricity, which will change during or at the end of June, and you are doing it in early July and you have done it for the first six months. I don't want to talk about all those prices, and I'm sorry that I don't have that indicator in front of me, which, on the night of that marathon session, was the same thing I needed for a congregation of the town of Kragujevac, when we were constantly doing 22 hours, to show them that those prices that the Republic Statistics Office gives me as a repo for calculating these givings are not on the markets in Serbia, nor in supermarkets, nor in these megamarkets. She calculated, a few months ago, a colleague of Radeta that 23 meals, without oil and salt, without anything, only from vegetables, could be cooked with that review of the groceries that the Republic Statistics Service gave us. Then what are you talking about? Isn't it inhumane to play with these people's feelings like that and tell them that on the basis of that show that comes from the Republic Institute... Look, do you read any newspapers or newspapers, or just listen blindly to what they tell you and these same-minded government guys of yours? Why don't you look around and see what those who own these shops say? My colleague, you who throw away your other colleague and take offense to what I'm saying, try to understand, since you're a doctor and you're supposed to be a humanist, a situation in a city where you come from, just like me. Don't put your head on the exact facts. You could be in the Kragujevac City Assembly talking about being a parliamentary party, but you couldn't get as far as 2% with all of you, so shut up and listen to those people chose, here and there in a much larger number. As far as this data is concerned, Mr. Lalovich, only if you do a comparative examination will you see that it's in percentages. If my proposal were accepted it would be more expensive for the state, of course for the budget, for the government, but it's much more humane, especially when it comes to these persons. There is no way to apply this model of the Life Cost Index published by the Republic Statistics Institute, while people are sure it will monitor the real cost of living in Serbia. They know that's not the case, and because the Republic Bureau of Statistics on that average that must be used for such data and for such, conditionally speaking, substitutings that do not apply in the real account of all our expenses. This way, the growth in earnings, and the way you showed it, and how they are coordinated on the basis of some inflation that is official, and it is informally much higher, still brings more income for these people, or for those who, under this law and this member, have the right to an increased allowance. I'd like to know how many such faces are in Serbia. Then on the basis of one such information and such comparison (and whether or not you have considered my amendment at all, I would like to hear from you) you will find out how much greater it is to give in relation to what you are predicting, and what I am asking on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to change. Whether these are so enormous expenditures from the budget and whether they can be found (I'm sure they can) save on the other side to respect this principle. If profit growth is applied in one part as some accounting parameter, then it would be good to change that in Article 4. If you've calculated it and come to the realization that it's an amazing breakthrough of budget items, which I don't believe in, then again we have no excuse, because for those who need help most, and these are disabled persons, they find the opportunity to get the money more, but to be fairer. What is more fair is what the SRS suggests, i.e. I as an amendment promoter. You probably know intimately, and you may not be able to defend that attitude here, but be so honest and admit that it's not the same to align these compensations with the cost of living index, to the expense of these faces, to the real growth of earnings, or to be shown, which is certainly not realistic, at a level or over a six-month period in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24157	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24158	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll talk about two things. First, who are the users of these funds, who are disabled, who are 100% disabled. It's about paraplegics, quadriplegics, people who can't move, people who need help and care, and they really don't need to be cut off. On the other hand, if you've been following the rise in the cost of life and the consumer basket, as it's popularly called, you've seen that they've been cutting first, the ruling set of "bullozer revolutions" so we've found, first they've cut down the basket, and then they've been cutting down the basket, and then they've been reducing the number of foods, and many of the groceries have been thrown out of that basket. Then, on that basis, statistics performs what the costs are, or what is the growth. On this basis, it will determine the height of Article 25, or 25a of this Law. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic asked for an amendment to establish the increase in average earnings in the Republic of Serbia instead of the Life Cost Index as a parameter. Profits still grow slightly more than this life-cost index, as envisaged. Secondly, if determined once every six months, usually, here are five or six years ago, prices of growth, municipal prices, prices of industrial products, all prices at which the Government and the Ministry can influence, or at the end of the sixth month, do not enter into the statistical account, or at the end of 12 months, or the first one in the following year, and do not enter the statistical account again. We come to a situation where people who are really helpless, who are 100% disabled and who exercise these rights are denied a certain amount of material power. So I suggest that in the voting day you really vote for this amendment, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, so that we at least correct this law in that part a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24159	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24160	Ladies and gentlemen, I see in the media this morning that Minister Lalovic promises to reform social protection, says, for at least two reasons: firstly, that social protection should be in the interests of the users and that users should be the ones who need it. There's a lot of questions here. If Minister Lalovic is preparing a reform, then why are we wasting our time changing and supplementing existing laws, because reform must mean some new laws, some completely different system-based solution, although I don't know how he means to resolve it. The second question to be asked is – what knowledge does Minister Lalovic have if he says that the future reformed, after his reform, social protection will be in the interests of the users and that the users will be the ones who need it. Does this mean that so far social benefits have not been in the interest of users and that users have not been persons in need of that protection? I really expect the minister to explain it, because he's otherwise known as a pearl, because so many pearls in the media say it's simply not possible. A man can never understand what he's saying, and he comes out here with some completely different story and again in his manner, when we're done, he's talking for an hour, I guess, to complete what he should be as an MP, since he's a folk MP. And the conclusion, mine and our MP groups, that is to say, answers these questions that the minister will not give us the answer in this particular article 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act. In Article 9, you predicted something that we had already seen in the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Servants. The government of Vojislav Kostunica is proposing, and the assembly majority is passing, laws which, in fact, mean extending the authorities of those who are now in power and following the next elections, regardless of the election result, of course, because they are aware that the election result will be such that many will not even sit in these benches, especially not manage, thank God, the state of Serbia. Therefore, this Article 9 provides that, when it comes to social work centres, an indefinite period of time, until it is appointed, in accordance with the law, the director of the Centre for Social Labour, may be appointed as an executive until the appointment, it says, in accordance with the law, which means indefinitely. That means exactly what I've already said, how you've predicted for these state secretaries and for various functions by the ministries, the government, that when you leave, you set up some of your people and that, by law, they still have to perform certain functions, as if nothing had happened, as if there were no choices and there would be no changes in election results. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I proposed that Article 9 of Article 1 add a new position 2 which should read: "In the 10th sentence, "to appoint an acting director until the appointment in accordance with the law" is replaced by the words "to extend the term of office to the Director until the appointment in accordance with the law, which must be carried out within the maximum period of six months". So, this amendment has been given as long as anyone can be the director of the Social Labour Centre. This solution that exists in the law, that someone should be appointed as acting, that they do so indefinitely, means that they can be another term of office. We have many bad experiences with these appointments of various performers for an indefinite period of time. It's the most present in the courts. We all know, you all know and talk about it, of course not after this pay phone, which means setting someone up as a performer of duty and keeping him literally on board, because whoever's doing the duty knows that he has to listen, because his relationship depends on whether or not the performer becomes director. In the case of the president of the courts, we have had this "immand" for several years, that some courts in Serbia have, instead of the president, acting as president. It has a negative impact on the work of these courts and on the situation in the judiciary at all. So, taught by this experience, we have proposed this amendment when it comes to the directors of the social work center. First of all, I don't know why in your bill of law, and the fact that you're about to appoint an employee of duty, why didn't you arm that? Is it possible that the congregation of the city’s municipalities or congregations will not be able to identify someone who will be the director of the social work center? If he can't do it within six months, then he's neither capable of doing his lawwork nor should he exist in that system or in such an assembly. Of course, I don't expect this amendment to be accepted, and I really should. I don't know why the minister left the O.R. This amendment should be accepted. Because neither the concept threatens the law, nor is it contrary to some minister's position, because it really is a matter of solving the technical issue in a much more normal and logical way. On the one hand, we would oblige the congregation of the city’s congregation to select within six months the director of the social work institution, and on the other hand we would have a man who would be responsible, as he would perform a certain function, to the congregation that appointed him. In this way, by nominate the performer, there is no telling who will be responsible, nor how the social protection funds will be shared. That is the problem and now, it will be a problem even after this law, especially if you do not accept this amendment and some other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party. The problem and the problems in the social work centres know Serbia's citizens, because, unfortunately, every day more and more Serbian citizens who meet the conditions to be social security users. I don't know if, for that reason, the minister is announcing a reform, aware of the execution of the so-called so-called execution. The democratic power in these five years has brought more and more people into a situation to become users of social protection. I was called today by representatives of the company Zorka from Subotica. They asked me to ask the minister and I asked him, even though he wasn't here. When I talked to these people, I said, "I'll bring up your problem, but I guarantee you I won't get an answer from the minister, because he has no idea what this is about." It's obvious, because he's not even gonna listen to what I'm about to pass on. So the Zorka factory from Saturday had several thousand employees, and now there are about 640 workers on the payroll. These 640 workers have not received a single dinar in the name of pay for two years. Totally conscious, that factory was brought to a beggar stick. Now there's a bankruptcy going on; these people say, from time to time, someone who comes to black-driving a certain substance, then they're looking at the houses of one of those 640 employees who are employed, who are supposed to receive a salary, they're hired to work for ten days, they're paid by the deed contract, they're paid by some mobster in his pocket who's usually doing it. These people, 640 of them, have the judicial and executive judgments of the competent court to pay them a certain amount, are large and different, depending on who had the number of working hours at the time of the company's breakdown. Obviously, there are some funds, because if people can be paid under the contract for a job they do, it means they could settle the obligations that Zorka from Subotica has to those 640 employees, or 640 families. When I was called by representatives of these former employees, they told me – today, Mrs Radeta, you will be seen by 640 families. Everyone will be eager to hear what Minister Lalovic is going to say, whether he intends to protect 640 families in Subotica in any way, or to let these people have nothing to eat, try to do the hardest jobs, if they can get to any work, and that's getting harder, as we all know. I fulfilled my obligation to these people by informing the public of the problem. I hope the minister is sitting in some office watching this transmission and maybe he'll come up with some data here. I would like to be denied in what I said to these people, that I do not expect Minister Lalovic to answer their question, nor any minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because these are irresponsible ministers, the irresponsible government, uninterested in the real problems of Serbian citizens. They're dealing with, probably, some of their own personal problems, they care about employees and those who are out of work, about pensioners, because they make sure that they're serious and responsible people, state officials, sure we don't have laws like this on the agenda today. All of what the representatives of the SRS say through these amendments that we have submitted to these laws is in favour of how badly this government is doing. And then the minister, who tried to stop this debate by accident, came along, but failed, so he says – even though the SRS is preventing the government from working in her work, we will still share the pensions left over to the pensioners. So the biggest lie he could tell the government's representative is exactly what the minister said. Neither has the Serbian Radical Party in any way ever obstructed the division of pensions, nor will it split back pensions, because what it offers is only one-sixth of the debt made. That debt was made from 2000 to today. It is also a lie in a newspaper yesterday, not to advertise them, "Readers' Letters", a representative of a G17 municipal board says Serbian radicals are obstructing the minister to split back pensions, and debts were incurred at a time when Serbian radicals were in government. That's a lie. Of course it's a lie. The truth is, the government could have done its job without passing a new law, like these laws, these two social laws, don't make any sense. These changes don't mean anything. The point is that the government of the Republic of Serbia is finally starting to do its job, or to realize that they are really not capable of it, to thank each other well and to get off the back of the Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24161	Thank you. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 85, one notice on how to work. So, as we announced last week, tomorrow of 10.00 hours, we're going to have a debate on the details of the mortgage bill. So today we only work until the end of the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda, which is 10 amendments. We'll try to work without a break. Here you go, Mr. Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24162	I will add a little more arguments for the previous amendment, which was explained by MP Verica Radet, which is to regulate the issue of election of the director of the Centre for Social Labour. First of all, let me say that what the promoter predicted, that a politician could also be appointed director of a social work centre, we do not find it controversial and we have not intervened there. We intervened in that part concerning the problem of what is done when the Director of the Centre expires, and the new one is not named in the legal deadline and according to the envisaged procedure. We wrote that amendment relying on our experience in practice. After the adoption of the Law on Local Elections, we see what is happening across Serbia in certain municipalities and cities, that it is very common that there is a situation of decision-making at the level of municipalities, that very often there is no timely profiling, stabilising the parliamentary majority, that there are very large and rapid fluctuations in this regard. The problem is often also manifested on the agenda of the appointment of holders of these public executive functions, including the director of the Centre for Social Labour. Since the term of office of the Centre for Social Labour is four years, the mandate of the board is also four years, it happens to coincide with a change in the assembly of the municipality, i.e. a parliamentary election, with the end of the office of directors. It often takes a lot of time to even form a parliamentary majority, and for this reason we have predicted that the function of the director of the social work centre can be extended for another six months, that enough time is given to the municipality's assembly to establish a stable parliamentary majority and to make appropriate decisions. The current text of the law states that the Ministry can appoint an official of duty when the situation arises that the municipality of the municipality does not appoint a director. Theoretically, it may be quite a logical solution, but what will happen in practice? It will happen in practice that, of course, the Ministry will not just determine the acting officer, but again on someone's proposal, in this case an informal proposal by some of the parties participating in the local government will make such a decision, so when the parliamentary majority is established, it will appear that the director is not at the will of that parliamentary majority, and then the ministry, or the assembly of the municipality, will resolve, by the law of the envisaged procedure, that director. What did we get? Playing with people. Someone will perform that function for a few weeks or a few months, will be resolved and the procedure will begin from the beginning. As for the amendments to Article 16, we wanted to tighten the procedure for recognising the right to compensation for other people's care and assistance in those categories that would receive a truly respectable 70 % remuneration from the average income in the Republic. Surely there will be great pressure from potential users on the Fund and the Centre for Social Work, there will be a large number of cases, and we wanted, in addition to the procedure mentioned above, that the medical commissions must have direct insight into the patient’s health status, which, in our view, would be in those old cases which are already users of the care and assistance compensation, which should be subject to some kind of revision of this procedure, especially since it is time for this article to be completed, i.e. to carry out this audit on 30 June 2007. Therefore, there is more than enough time for this procedure to be subject to a subsequent review of all the solutions for compensation for other people's care and assistance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24163	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and ENDS OF THE LAW ON FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY WITH DECOM (single) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs: Miroslav Nedeljković, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Rade, Mileta Poscurica, Radiša Ilic, Paja Momčov, Vojislav Milajić and together Hranislav Perić and Milisav Petronijevic. You have received a report from the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24164	This Article 2 says that the fact that children live with their parents will be determined according to the findings of the competent centre for social work, and we suggest that it stands there – according to the court's decision. For what? Because the Family Law, which we've made this year, has just introduced this newspaper that since the family-law status of children concerns all decisions are brought by the court. Under the previous Law on Marriage and Family Relations, many decisions were made by the Social Work Centre. So now all decisions are made by the court, and that's something that was adopted as a principle. It is understood that the court of its decision is, as a rule, based on the expertise of the Centre for Social Work, based on the findings of an expert team in which the legal, pedagogal, psychologist and social worker are in place, so we think that this is actually our attempt to bring different laws into some kind of mutual harmony and harmony, that all of this is consistent, coherent and we think that if this amendment were adopted, it would only contribute to some consistency and nothing would disrupt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24165	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24166	We have submitted the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I must say that this article is somewhat changed by Article 4. The law. It doesn't change what's in the first position. In order to make it more clear what our amendment refers to, I will read part of Article 4 which has not changed, which is point 1: "The revenue from the impact on the exercise of the rights provided for by this law, which are determined in the average monthly amount, based on the income achieved in the three months preceding the month in which the application was made, is 1) income subject to taxation under the law governing the income tax of citizens". That's what it stands for. It is a monthly income, it is made monthly, and a three-month income is taken into account. If we apply that logic to point 2) which you have amended by this draft law on amendments and supplements, of course you have kept something from the existing one, which was in this text, you have inserted there – the proceeds achieved by the severance in the event of the need for the work of employees due to technological, economic or organisational changes achieved in the year prior to the submission of claims. That's not monthly income. So by the definition of what's in the first position these two things are incomparable, they're not monthly income. They don't represent something that sleeps every month, but they represent something that's one-time. This applies to sub-point (4). Sub-paragraph (5) — Social programme compensation. It solves the technological status of people who are employed under the government's social programme, some restructuring programme, so that someone, in translation, means, was expelled from work, received a certain amount of funds, and you take it as a monthly income, you take it down to three months, and you take it into account when determining whether the conditions for a child's allowance have been met, one of the rights provided for by this law. Third income is unemployment benefits. He is already in a social position, receiving compensation as an unemployed person and you are receiving it, which is time-limited by duration, again take into account the achievement of one of the rights prescribed by the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Of course, the other basics were not included in the amendment. We've only covered these three. We suggest that these three be deleted, so that they remain sub-points (1), (2) and (3), as fixed incomes or, to be more precise, relatively permanent revenues. So, it's taken into account pensions, disability, receipts by regulations on the rights of war people with disabilities, relatives who have a legal obligation to support them; these are regular incomes and what's written under (8), and we're asking to delete the items (4), (5) and (6) from this member you're changing. What I have said in the attached amendment almost has no effect on the views of the 2nd and 3rd members you do not change. I have to draw attention, since practically two issues are being treated in this law, two key questions are: this is the right to a child's allowance and this help for a newborn. That's where you changed the character of one right, but we'll do it later, when the article of the 69th Law comes, when the amendment is made to that article. That's where you changed the character of this right that's existed since 2002. However, I am simply waiting that, independently of income, the government finally gets the strength to determine the child's supplement, whether it is symbolic, whether it will be any more significant amount etc. We're probably all aware that children are rich. You also know how these censorships are divided – the total material status of the family being taken into account; because of several dinars over some censors, someone cannot exercise the right to a child's allowance, and I personally advocate that for every child born in this country some monetary satisfaction comes as a help to parents, regardless of whether it is the first, second or third and independent of what the incomes of the family household are. To one who has much more of that childlike supplement comes as a recognition of state and society because he thinks about the reproduction of his people. Those who are in a worse material position receive these funds, too, mean something to them as a help in raising, nursing and educating children. As soon as we engage in these censorships, groups, total family incomes, etc., then we come to the field of injustice. There are people who can't do it because of some censorship that's been prescribed. One professional analysis should be made to say how many children there are, how many up to 15 years, etc. And how much would that cost? I think in this direction that we can give this kind of social assistance and social stimulant to our families as a society in general, regardless of how much the finance minister can say to so many and so many thousands of children, if a child's supplement is prescribed, that that's how much and so much in the mass, that's a huge burden on the budget. That math can always be done. That there is a great burden on the budget can be applied to each item, but I think we no longer have the justification to justify the amount of funds in the budget as a limiting factor, rather than to help in some way with this child-addition policy of every family that has children, so let it be a symbolic amount, but in this way this state makes it clear that it cares about a normal population policy, that this population is being renewed. You can see for yourself that on average we grow old as a society. If we enter these stories of limitations, of censorships, whether material conditions are met, whether material conditions are not met, we insult those people first. You know, society with lower social status has more children. Well-being society, with rich material status, has fewer children. Now we all use everything and everything for an excuse. When you ask some young people they say - I'd have kids, but I don't have an apartment, so we don't have this, so we don't have that. It can only be accepted as an excuse. I guess the child is the result of love and need, not the need for an apartment. The significant contribution of society and this National Assembly is to prescribe for each child a child's supplement, not to enter into this galatias how much income there is, what there is, etc., aware of the situation that one who is rich means nothing to him. It means it's like the satisfaction of a society. Whoever's in a worse position, it's a big help to him. That's what to say. This is how we have special categories of people who are on break-in. It doesn't meet the child support requirements because of some income that passes I don't know how many dinars over it, or 100, or 200 or 1,000 dinars, it doesn't really matter, and for that family, it probably means a lot to a low child's allowance. I suggest that an analysis be made to see what these age groups are, how many children are in Serbia, how help can be made and that funds are foreseen in the budget, with all the risk that they can be even symbolic at some point. I don't know why this society, if this is all about being watched through a child's supplement, is more important to a child from a poorer family than that child from a relatively wealthy family. We all have kids we like. We don't have to share children. If necessary, squeeze that budget into another item there, but here let us in one broad and objective way help every family that has a child and for every child, of course taking care of age, education, etc. and those age limits as long as they're used right on a child's allowance. If I could just point out the seriousness of this subject with this amendment... We asked the amendment to get rid of these revenues, because they're one-time, not monthly, not constantly monthly income, it's one-time. Secondly, this is all temporary, because now it's possible that someone has received the severance payment and has no right to a child's allowance at some point. When he gets out of that period until that severance bill is calculated, he comes back twice and you count the same thing three times. When you look at all the effects of that, and it's not fair to take something that's one-time help, these are all social categories. These three categories that I propose to change are all social categories: both severance and social programme and unemployment benefits. It's all forms of social protection. Now you sanction the social protection of the state and the para-state authorities, since there's this employment fund here, etc., for the sake of other social rights, you unnecessarily insert this mathematics and I think there's a huge injustice going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24167	Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. Is one of the doctors an ophthalmologist? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a National MP, Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24168	I'll read Article 5 of the 2002 Law and the amendments. Thus, Article 6 states: "The law provided for by this law which is conditioned by a material position", which is mainly the right to a child's supplement, "can be realised if the applicant requests, or members of his family do not possess immovable property, other than an appropriate living space that corresponds to the needs of an individual, or family, and a garden in the area of one hectare. "What has the Government now proposed, which change in this article? It suggests that this sentence at the end of "and the gardens in the area of one hectare" is deleted. What does that mean in practice? In practice, this means that a non-agricultural family, if it has a garden in the area of one hectare, cannot exercise the right to a child's allowance at all. However, the position of the 2nd member provides for some relief, but this applies to agricultural households, households that generate income exclusively from agriculture, and there is a limit of one hectare per household member increased to two hectares per household member. What can we conclude from this? In Article 1, rights are slightly cut, and Article 2 extends. On the basis of one superficial view, however, it can be concluded that it is compensated for one another. Basically, what's this all about? Households of heading 2, agricultural households authorised and two hectares per household member, can very rarely exercise the right to a child's allowance in practice. Why? Simply because there is no underage in the country, at least in the agricultural households, we know that these are mostly nursing households, unfortunately, without children, so this, I can freely use the word, one demagogue by the government, to extend the potential rights of those who cannot exploit it. Here where there's a very sensitive question, and these are households where one member or more members work, in a working relationship, have a garden to one hectare, they can't use the right to a child's allowance at all, and such families have a lot. These are mostly families where, due to low wages, family members have to supplement their incomes, so they fall out of the child's allowance system. There will be many affected families who have used the child’s supplement, and now they will no longer use it. Some improvements on some other grounds for social security users are likely to settle with savings in these positions. I don't think this should stay. We have proposed by amendment that non-agricultural households be allowed if they own a garden of one hectare to be users of a child's allowance. I'm sure the government has no valid argument, except to save funds to settle some other positions in the security system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24169	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24170	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's just remember how it started on the Sunday of the citizens' standards right after "the Bulldozer of the Revolution," so after October 5th. It started first with those crisis headquarters of yours, when you were walking in with your socks into state institutions and throwing out employees in those institutions and automatically leaving them without a job. Then came that transparent transition of yours, which no longer knew how long they'd stay, mostly everyone was sure that three-quarters of the employees would lose their jobs. Then came bank recoverys, so tens of thousands of employees in the four largest banks were out of a job. Then came the "buzzaral" privatisation, which bought for small money the property of Serbian and Serbian citizens. Always, after each process, a part of the workers was out of work, a part of the employees were left out of privilege, no income, no social, no PIO. In a member... And the propo standard, and let me tell you, those 50 marks and the cost of life, that was a lot more than 200 euros, and that's what Serbian citizens know best, and you don't have to explain it to them, because you've always lived on a high foot. With this amendment, we try to correct at least part of the injustice, because if someone bought a garden, lost their job, lives in that garden, no income, and because they have an garden to a hectare they can't receive a child's allowance. The People's MP, Ms Radeta, asked that in Article 5 at the end of the position: "Right to a child's supplement can be achieved if the applicant requests, or members of his family do not possess monetary and other liquid assets (realized by the sale of immovable property, action and other securities of value and similar) in value greater than 30 children's allowances per family member at the time of submission of claims"... The People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, seeks to be behind this, and the gardens in the area of one hectare. So it's not like he's got a garden in the area of a hectare of brakes and his kids don't have the right to a child's allowance. I think this amendment should be adopted in the voting day. The number of users will not increase, but those who enter on this basis will be able, at least those children will be able to live a little more normally and to school.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24171	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24172	Just for a little while, there's a technical intervention here. Therefore, Article 7 of the Law states: "The average monthly earnings per employee in the Republic are determined according to data published by the Republic's statistical authority. "The position of the 2nd member of the law would, therefore, be the same, just as it is said – per employed in the Republic without taxes and contributions. So we have two attitudes that pretty much define the same thing and I just wanted one attitude to say what is said in the two states of the existing law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24173	The People's MP, Milet Poscurica, submitted to the 8th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, we wanted not only to bring the matter back to its current state, so that we would not change our mind. We heard from the minister the reasons why the decision was made to revise this legislative change by revising the way in which the income for maternity leave and the other absences in relation to the child's care, etc., because they allegedly broke the limit by paying more, raising the average birth rate to a higher level, which grew more than the income of the employer; it probably refers to private employers. At the same time, he can talk about two things. First, we stand in that position, we need to favour these pregnant women, the birthright, should help whenever possible, not look so closely; we do not know exactly how much change we have written, how much in millions of euros or hundreds of thousands is, that supplement that the Kobajagi damages the state's register if the privateer raises several times the profits and it does not monitor profits in the company. But there's another side where this person, the woman who works in the company to be an efficient worker, a capable worker, who would actually raise a profit and for every raise of profit the state has gone into tax; so there won't be any harmful effect, so now someone will be denied, someone who's good and has a contract with the employer, has a place where, say, earn a profit. You know that in Slovenia when "Ellan" was raised to their feet, as many directors etc.; what if the woman were pregnant and the director, but she raised so much "Elan" to her feet that everything came back to life. They drove the Croat away, brought the Slovene back, raised the factory to its feet. And that someone like that had made a contract, and who, on the rise of the salary, is more than the average of Slovenia itself, that such a company is working and that it can work well and that during its work, indeed, this woman, who will later go on maternity leave, makes a contribution to the company and has the right to raise her more than the average of the salary to others, so that now remains the chance to reduce some others in her rights. Maybe it shouldn't have been touched, maybe the law didn't predict such a possibility, and that means that our people can always manage, and an employer. Whether it damages the state when someone legally gets the money, when they nurse a child or if it's already a leave, and after giving birth for care, it's usually a matter of illness or something else, it's a question of damage, or whether someone can single-handedly raise their salary. Can the finance minister, since he's able to think of anything and say anything here, think of another mechanism that he would incorporate and prevent, because it seems so rigidly to abolish certain existing rights. That's why we're against every time these rights are abolished, and the fact is that it's the way it is and it's been done before, and it wasn't that long ago, when the law was passed, it wasn't thinking about it. Someone's going in front of the legislator. This needs to be more serious, when the law is passed, taken, not retrogradeally after the right; it seems rather harsh. We're not up for it. We're about to find mechanisms to prevent it. That's why we came out with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24175	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Does anyone want to talk about the same amendment? The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I won't talk much about the amendment. I think it's all said. I will take advantage of the opportunity to ask a parliamentary question in order to help with some of the ambiguities that arise and to better implement this law that we will adopt, or existing law. It refers in particular to the problem of late payment of the employer's salary and on that basis, since you have been bound in Article 13 or Article 10. The bill, the account of the employer's salary, is also accounted for with the payoff. In practice, a large number of employers are late with a payoff of two, three, five, six months, some don't even pay off their profits. In that sense, I would like to get an answer, as a National MP, or Assembly, to see how our ministry, or resolution minister, is applying literally the Labour Act that we adopted on 8 March 2005. I think it's already five months, there's a chance to check how this law is implemented in practice. So I am particularly interested in the obligation of the employer of Articles 121 and 122. The labour law, where a penalty for infringement is threatened from 600,000 to a million dinars for legal persons, if the employer does not account and deliver an account to the employee in accordance with Article 121 paragraph 1 point 5 of the Act or if he does not keep a monthly record, of what is written in Article 122. This would help you and see how the minister implements our own regulation here, how much the executive authority respects the decisions of the Assembly and removes the problems in charge, especially when compensation is paid for the child's allowance and what is going on and what is being calculated by the employer and paid for by the state. I said that the penalty for the violation was 600,000 to 1,000,000 dinars for legal persons, and for entrepreneurs from 300,000 to 500,000, for the responsible person in the legal face from 30,000 to 50,000 dinars. Is there any case so far that a report has been written and a misdemeanor has been initiated and that a fine has been charged with any employer in Serbia, on any basis, if the Labour Act has not been respected? I'm interested in this information, and then you'll see how much trouble there is to apply all this stuff that we're talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24177	Thank you. It will be recorded as a question in case there is no answer immediately. Is there anything else he wants to say about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Radisa Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 11 of this bill where the word "mother" is replaced by the word "parent" in the corresponding decline, and paragraph 5 is deleted. The reason I submitted this amendment is the fact that a large number of children in Serbia lost their parental allowance precisely because the mother was unable to exercise the right to a parental allowance. I will read the first position and the position of five in Article 14. where it is decidently stated under which conditions only the mother has the right to a parental allowance – the parental supplement is granted by the mother for the first, second, third and fourth children, provided that she is a citizen of Serbia-Montenegro; and the fifth attitude – the right to a parental supplement, if she meets the requirements of Article 1 - 3 of this article, can also be achieved by the father of the child, if the child's mother is not alive, if she has left the child or for objective reasons prevented from taking immediate care of the child. First of all, it's an unequal parenting relationship, although I don't understand that so-called. human rights defenders and copyists of the EU directives and regulations do not state in this case. It insists everywhere on gender equality, as well as on women's threats, and in this case, a father as a parent cannot exercise the right to a parental allowance, except in a few of the situations listed in paragraph 5. Such a legal solution proposed by the resolution ministry directly damaged thousands of families with children in Serbia, or tens of thousands of children in Serbia. It may seem irrelevant to you, but for these families and those children, it's very important. One of the most important reasons for accepting this amendment is the problem with the citizenship of the child's mother. It would apply in a situation where a child's mother is unable to exercise the right to a parental supplement because of such a law, so it would automatically belong to the father of that child who lives with his mother in the community, usually out of wedlock. Because of these problems with documents, they cannot form a marriage union. It is extramarital because there is obstruction in the administration of foreign states, especially in the premises of former SFRY, in issuing the necessary documents. Who suffers the most in this situation? Children who are born here and who are our citizens, who cannot exercise the right to a child's allowance, or their parents. A large number of refugees from Republika Srpska, occupied today by the Republic of Croatia, the Federation of BiH, Slovenia, came to the Republic of Serbia. Years ago, marriages were made before God, but not before the mother, precisely because of this problem between those faces and the state from which they came to Serbia. In the explanation that you gave to the MPs, you mentioned some facts. I'd just like to comment. As for this first attitude, you say, "Amendman is not acceptable, because the mother who gives birth and all birth indicators are related to the number of children born per woman, or mother. "I think the primary goal of the parental supplement is that this supplement is intended primarily for raising that child, not for the mother. "The birth indicators are related to the number of children born per woman, or mother" – how can this be adapted to this attitude 5. The bill of law, where is there a situation where a father has the right to a parental allowance? Also, you stated in an explanation of the rejection of the amendment: "If a child's mother is prevented for subjective or objective reasons to take immediate care of the child, the law gives the possibility and the father of a child to exercise the right to a parental supplement. "Actually, here you delete the right parent - father to receive parental allowance, while the mother is the person who would be entitled to a parental allowance under this law. I have several examples where mothers who have children in the Republic of Serbia for two, three years can't make a marriage, just for reasons of obstruction of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia. What's going on now? You don't give that right to a child's father. I even got from a few of them housewives who only after a three-year period managed to win so they could start a marriage here. At the same time, they have two, three children here, but they couldn't get the right to a parental allowance. Also, there are a large number of extramarital communities with citizens of Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova, etc. But because of the legal regulations, where the length of stay for citizenship is foreseen, they were also not in a position to exercise the right to a parental allowance, and with our citizens here in Serbia have children. I'd just like to tell you about the Paracino community situation, since I'm familiar with that number and I've been contacted by many of the parents who couldn't achieve this right to a parental allowance. There are at least 200 families in Paracino who have been denied this parental supplement, i.e. children living in those families, so I would ask you to accept this amendment in front of the government for the benefit of those children who, unfortunately, are not entitled to a parental allowance today because their mother is not yet a citizen of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24179	Anyone else by the same amendment? Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just wanted to add to one case that we discussed on the Committee in the Serbian Parliament, which Mr Krasic remembers, who is not a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, where this was found on the agenda, but has made an immeasurable professional contribution to interpreting a letter that came from one parent; it is a father, from the Sabbath municipality, and the exercise of the right to this one-time assistance, that can be observed in this context when it comes to another parent, not a mother, but a father, for a fourth child. In fact, the mother did exercise the right, given the fact that it was her second marriage, and he couldn't, because he thought it was in a new marriage, he had three children from the previous one. He was told by the ministry that he can't exercise his right to help. Of course, that's where we reacted, and then there was a change in that member. I don't see why you don't accept it, and a lot of memos have arrived at the address of MPs and individually, in cases like this, non-registration of citizenship, non-marriage, child belonging, according to the court's decision, to be with another parent, or father. So that we don't have cases like this one just mentioned in the case from Capca, it's absolutely realistic that you accept this amendment. Besides, you know it's the only right attitude. It's not just a principled pawn for us Serbian radicals. We believe that the child's supplement is the category that the child receives by his birth, no matter what happens next, but from the moment the cradle swings it to be his acquired right, that it can be used and that the state is obliged to give it to him and give it to him. We were with this former minister from this failed Dossow government one day having a debate about this, when these rocks and foundations were established in 2002-2003. We kept explaining to her that the woman who lives in the country is unemployed, therefore, she deals with agriculture, whether in the context of your registration of agricultural landowners is reported or not, but it's bad because people are resisting it, and mother and father, that they are the parents of those children, but that it has nothing to do with the status and position of the child to have in society, therefore, on the day of her birth to get the opportunity and the right. You're making a problem here with the only possible intervention that could have been done without being fair, colleagues of Ilic, and you're giving some sort of explanation that the mild relationships don't have. What he presented as arguments and this case with his father from Šapac, who addressed the Committee, and later we came to the conclusion that we should react and that this injustice is correct, are just some of the examples of life, and many of them will be, be sure, if you do not intervene in the way proposed by counterpart Radiša Ilic on behalf of the SRS Group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24181	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24182	This fourth position of Article 11 states: "With the request for parental allowance, the necessary documentation and assurance of the competent authority of custody is submitted", i.e. the Centre for Social Labour, "on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in Article 3". They suggested that instead of "the custody body," the word "judgment" should stand. I can only repeat the argument set out in Amendment 1. Therefore, the family-law status is determined exclusively by the court's decision, and the court is based, as a rule, on the opinion of the expert body of the Centre for Social Labour. In order for the Family Law and this law to be in line, we feel that this intervention should be carried out. I would just like to comment on the previous amendment of MP Radisa Ilic. I think it's mother mentioning, not parents, really today's anachronism, if we remember how big the fight is for gender equality. I'm surprised that even the competent Committee on Gender Equality and the entire non-governmental sector have not responded in this case, which would probably have been the case if in some way the "discrimination" of the mother had been committed. The explanation that the process of obtaining citizenship is so simplified that it is no obstacle in practice if it stands for "mother", not "parent", really does not stand, because it is a principle issue. If the citizenship process is simplified, the law should again include "parent". This institute is otherwise called a parental supplement, not a maternal one, etc. So, as far as this amendment is concerned, for article 11 of Radisa Ilic, it really should be adopted. Nothing in practice would be disturbed, except by respecting the principle and simplifying the procedure, it would not make life worse for those families who have this specific situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24183	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24184	As for the amendment to Article 12, we wanted to change this thing radically. In fact, the government decided to change the character of the parental allowance from the foundation, by dividing the same amount of money into 24 equal months of war instead of the one-off payment for the second, third and fourth children. What is a positive newspaper is to introduce a parental supplement for the child of the first order of birth in the family. However, the addition to the nominal amount is significantly smaller than the addition to the second, third and fourth children, which is progressively growing. How to treat this change in character of a parental supplement – instead of a one-time payment, so a payoff in 24 wars? Financial support to the family with children is shared, conditionally speaking, in this law to: 1) improving the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children; 2) a special incentive for the birth of children; 3) support for materially threatened families with children. If we analyse from that point of view, we will conclude that the parental supplement, as it was introduced in 2002, was intended to meet this point 2) - a special incentive for the birth of children. So it was one stimulating measure for the birth of children. When the parental allowance is paid into 24 wars, it probably ceases to be an incentive measure for the birth of children, rather than becoming what is provided for in points 1) and (3), which is to improve the conditions for meeting the basic needs of children and material support for families with children. If the government wants to improve the material position of the family, it is critical that it is giving up in this way from encouraging the birth of children through this measure. The amendment we tried to compromise between these two goals. We predicted that one third of that parental allowance would be paid once after the birth of a child, and two thirds would turn into 24 equal months of war and meet these other needs of a family with children. As for the nominal amounts we predicted, we disagree that the first child should be stimulated by a parental supplement that is sensitive, even tenfold, lower than the fourth child's fee in the family. It's a good thing a parental supplement has been introduced for the first child, but if it's already imagined as an incentive measure to give birth to children, it should also be at its nominal amount. We predicted, given the extremely difficult situation with natural origin, that the incentive for the first child would be the largest and be 108,000 dinars, so that one third would be paid immediately, and that would be some substitute for that, in 2002, abolished, a compensation for newborn equipment, and that two thirds of that amount would be paid 24 months; this would be nominal now, when the law was passed, 3,000 dinars per month. For a child of the second, third and fourth order of birth, the total amount would be 90,000 dinars. A third would be paid immediately, and two years per month for 2,500 dinars. That would, in some ways, satisfy all that was intended to be achieved by these fees under this law. Of course, far from only being able to isolate this only financial measure to make something significant for this tragic situation with natural growth in Serbia, but perhaps it would be the beginning, the basis for further improvement and other stimulating measures, and they are not just financial nature. The bill would likely show that significant additional funding from the budget is also needed. We are sure that by saving ourselves on other budget items, positions would come up with more than enough resources and for these purposes, especially when we remember how many laws have been passed in these two years that we have formed various para-state institutions, agencies, that spend money, and that we don't really see any concrete effect in life, the result of that. If all costs were put on paper, essentially unnecessary, for these purposes, it would be seen that it was more than enough to cover the additional budget commitments for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24185	I thank you, Mr. Nedeljkovic. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard a few days ago a data that is not true. I have to tell you, because I checked in Kragujevac, that many units of local self-government have made an alleged decision to single out the budget for this and next year for the first child of 30,000 dinars, which is not true at all. In Kragujevac, for this purpose, a budget adopted the other night, or morning, envisions 20,000 dinars. The SRS amendment, which we have submitted as the parliamentary opposition group there, was not accepted, to be at least 30,000 dinars, because we found over 100,000, first of all, local financing of local propaganda services, travel costs and everything else, the possibility of all of this being improved. Imagine, and that 20,000 dinars, which is not enough, is what concern and the role of the state if you do not accept the amendment of your colleague Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic, with such a new, only real way of helping, first of all for the first child, and then for the second, third and fourth. Since there is little time left, regarding this amendment I wanted to tell you that it is not a good approach and certainly that, according to both children and parents, this approach has changed so-called. reforms since 2000 when it comes to these categories – a parental supplement and a child's supplement. The state, especially the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, has reduced the possibility of, or the number of children, families using child support. This looks like this: from 1996 to 2002 there was oscillation, but to the harm of children and families in Serbia. During the sanctions, unremembered in the civilized world, in 1996, four years after fatigue, exhaustion and the kind of situation we had with the blocked economy, with absolute inability to export something and to attract more, the number of families that used a child's supplement (now I'm going back to the category of child accessories, to connect this) was 409.508 and 710.820 children, respectively. Then, since 2000, there has been a dramatic fall. Ask yourself why. Is it because people are not interested in applying or because, in the meantime, your appetites, or the DOS at the time, have grown, and then you started to live above children and to make such rocks absolutely impossible to achieve that right, in order to get to the data, that's the last thing I have, but I believe that only changed up, or that the number of children who use children's supplements has dropped even more, instead of 710.820 children's allowance, or children, that number fell to 573,187 in 2002? What are we talking about here? Where's the money? Where are they going? Where do the budget go? How can you justify such a minimal, not to say poor, compensation for a firstborn child? Do you realize how much basic things cost to take care of it? It is impossible to vote, I am speaking to MPs from the ruling structures, to set up as many agencies to spend budget money without voting for Dr Miroslav Nedeljkovic's amendment. If one unit of local self-government, although small, can find the opportunity to give a single aid of 20,000 dinars, isn't it a disgrace and a disgrace to the republican budget? It depends on how who, a colleague, here, says – Valjevo, that it is more. It's not binding, it's all a matter of councilmen and local self-government to agree on. This is something that the state needs to worry about, and this is wrongly called, in motion-recording studies, which I have and where I'm getting these tables from, as a category of help and social care for the poorest. It's not supposed to be looked at like that at all. This should be an incentive, as Dr Nedeljkovic said, and it should be a method of addressing potential users, i.e. young parents and those who are based on family and mothers who are supposed to have a first child, to dare to take such a step, and that the state, along with everything else, will give them this stimulant without talking about the second, third and fourth children and our clear intention to absolutely neglect all other unnecessary costs and to find it in the budget... You should have prepared much better for this session, Mr. Lalovich, because you're not getting out. Sit there and keep your mouth shut all the time. I just went upstairs to get this data, a colleague of Radeta also in front of a folder, looks at the monitor and says, "Look, Lalovic is talking," but it just seemed to her. You look like someone, probably, of these of yours who answered, because he wasn't a radical at the pay phone. You can't go out there and say what you're suggesting. Here you have a growth in earnings instead of a cost index, here you have an increase in scales for the first, second, third and fourth children, so come well with exact data as much in the budget as your proposal overlooked and where to find those savings. It's the only way we can, by language of numbers and facts, talk. This way, to humiliate unborn children who are yet to be born, and their parents, this is really more than a disgrace, doesn't know what to say to all of this. It's just amazing how you dared, as you dared, Minister Lalovic, to come with such a scandalous proposal in the Serbian Parliament in front of the people and in front of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24187	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Hranislav Peric and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, about the continuation of the story, in something different, about this member. In the principle debate, we, as a parliamentary group of SPS, expressed our position on amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with the children and our objections to such a proposed law. In this case, before I explain the amendment that we have submitted about this, I want to remind myself again of the essence of the idea of the law on financial support for the family, which it is being looked at – it is seen that the state is taking measures that it can take to stop the white plague process in Serbia, so one of Serbia's long-term biggest problems to face. So that's where it's supposed to come from. Of course, according to the law, the essence of this law on financial support for the family is that it is based on the rights and duties of parents, on the one hand, to raise and raise children, and on the right of children, on the other hand, on the conditions of life that allow proper development, and thirdly, what we are talking about, on the obligation of the state to support such families and of course children. If we have that in mind, then we'll be able to explain this amendment more easily. This clearly shows that this issue of financial support to the family is not only a social issue, nor an economic issue, but primarily a population policy issue or even an instrument of population policy. So far, the current Financial Support Act for the family with children has been the following: that the parental allowance is paid once for the second, third and fourth children. That was 50, 90, and 120. Since it was in line with the life cost index in the meantime, it is now about 75,900 for the first child, 13,000 for the second child and 182,000 for the third child. So it was paid for the second, third and fourth children in the amounts I was talking about, one time. The proposal to amend this law is the essence of the change when it comes to this article: to introduce the right to a parental supplement and for the first child, which we support and consider positive. We don't know why it wasn't in the previous law. Another significant change in this matter is that for the second, third and fourth children the parental allowance is paid into 24 months of war. Supporting the proposal to introduce a parental supplement for the first child, and since it is the low height of that 20,000 supplement, the amendment modestly suggested that it should be 30,000 a month, considering it is certainly a serious asset, but we also consider that serious expenditures, perhaps even the biggest, right in the first child, when it is necessary to buy complete equipment and everything that already goes with the first child. It's a very big expense for the family, especially for socially weaker families. It's the first part of the amendment. In the second part of the amendment, we, respecting some of the reasons that the Government has given, have tried to propose a medium solution, not to make payments for the second, third and fourth children in the 24 wars, but to do it in some way stepwisely, depending on the amount. What does that mean? We heard here that it is for the fourth child, and unfortunately very few in Serbia, a parental supplement of 180 and some thousands, and that is about 7,000 a month. Also, what's good for another child is 75,000; it's about 3,000 dinars a month. It's not the same. So we think that the second child should be shorter than 12 months, which is about 7,000, for the third 18 months, which is about 7,000 a month again, and should remain for the fourth child 24 wars. We believe that this is how the same monthly war is achieved, regardless of which child it is, which we consider to be a much more just and celery solution than the solution given in the bill. Here the government responded to this amendment: "Amendman is not acceptable for reasons that there is no necessary funding for its implementation in the Republic's budget. "I want to question that reason, because so far the applicable law has forced the government to budget all at once. So, the law is in force, it's not something that comes after the budget, so now it's a new obligation, so now you can't stand it. The law was in force and he was, for the budget I speak, a greater burden than he was in the wars. We have offered an acceptable middle solution to even the war, and to reduce the number of months from the number of children. It is the exact same reasoning as, unfortunately, this debate has passed, in the public debt law for farmers' pensions – the government said there is no such funding for next year. I also question that now, because that law was passed in September, when farmers were told that they would receive one fifth each year. So before the budget. Of course, I very much appreciate the government's efforts to come into the situation to pay out pensions in the current month for the previous month, and that is a significant increase for agricultural pensioners, but also with this significant increase, these are extremely low pensions. And what's the explanation, if the bill was passed before the budget that's behind the budget, it says -- it's going to cost a lot. And here in the same way, it would cost a lot more than the budget if there was a solution left, than what we offer. Furthermore, the minister's argument that these funds were being misused, so as soon as they get the funds, then the parents leave and drink it, etc. and is no longer in the child's function. I don't think cases like that, and if there are individual cases, they can't be a reason to change this law. For these reasons, I repeat again – we offer a solution that meets the basic idea and the fundamental purpose and obligations of the state to support family and children, and does not depart significantly from economic policy for the next year. I call on the government to reconsider its position on the amendment once more, and for MPs to vote on this amendment in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24189	I thank Mr. Petronievich. By the way, your amendment is great. Mr. Toma Bushettic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24190	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, certainly this amendment of ours is good, but an even better solution is a one-time payment of the parental allowance, because frequent changes in measures and solutions in the population policy system reduce the incentive to give birth. That's quite certain. One-time payment of the parental allowance is certainly a better solution, especially when it comes to poor layers. Simply, when 70,000 dinars are paid once, 136, 185, as is now for the second, third and fourth children, it can certainly be a significant incentive for people to commit themselves to more children. On the other hand, when we talk about the one-time payment of the parental allowance we should have in mind and advantage, because if we pay something a year, if we pay off for two years, there will certainly be inflation, and certainly these funds will in some way be worthless, at least in that second year, and in the first year of payment. In his first address several days ago, Minister Lalovic found that the youth had lost confidence in the state 15 years ago, in the 1990s, that the process of emigration and minor birth had begun. We can certainly kill this point, this is not true what Minister Lalovic was saying. Central Serbia and Vojvodina faced the problem of insufficient birth in the 1960s and 1970s; much smaller births occurred in the second half of the 20th century in Vojvodina and Serbia. The total fertility rate was 15-20% lower. By 15%, it was smaller in central Serbia and 20% in Vojvodina. Because of such decades of behaviour and events, we had in central Serbia and Vojvodina a demographic process of aging that has reached a great situation. According to the 2002 census, more than 900,000 people are over 65 years old, and in Vojvodina alone, that figure is about 300,000. So one-sixth of the population in Serbia is over 65 years old, making it clear that Serbs today are the oldest nation. I think we're second in the world, right after Japan. So financial support is important. Through these amendments, through the support of these laws, we advocate that parental supplements be as large as possible, that these additions include the entire population, regardless of the material position, although it is most important that these funds be allocated to those who need them most. It's not a crucial factor. If that were the case, the best example is Europe. Today we have a negative growth rate in many Western European countries, in a developed world, in Germany, in France, in Spain. And it's true that the domicile population has a negative growth rate. When it comes to settlers from Africa, Turks in Germany, there is a growth rate and how great. So, in a way, Serbia shares the fate of Europe in this situation, because Europe today has 720 million inhabitants. If this rate of growth continues, we in Europe in 40 years or 45 years, about 2050, will have 100 million fewer inhabitants, meaning in Europe itself. What do we want to point out? That this financial support to the family is important, but it's not crucial. It is much more important to develop awareness of the restoration of the population. This is particularly important for our country, because the fact that, if we are talking about Europe, about the developed world, about the part of our population, that, first of all, when we have one child or two children, it is not enough for a simple reproduction, emancipation of women with materialistic consciousness and consumer mentality, all by system – we want a better life. When it comes to Serbia, there is no excuse for such a thing, because the white plague in Serbia will rule to the point that within a few decades in Serbia, we will be so few that we will be below four million, that is some data, in 2050, if we have this population growth, this degree of birth, that we will be below four million. In these conditions, we are small territorial, em with such a small number of inhabitants, without the necessary number of inhabitants, and we need to be more than the current number of seven million, there is no development, no progress, no prosperity. Minister Lalovic returned, spoke in his first address about the state, about confidence. Minister, it's not about trusting the youth in the country, so when the youth loses trust, then we have a lot of things, including fewer births. It is about trust, because if we take a situation today, what kind of trust should youth and Serbia have in general towards the president of the state of Boris Tadic? Here, Boris Tadic, staying in France a few days ago, said we must fight to preserve culture and religion in Kosovo and Metohija. What nonsense, what inconclusiveness, what irresponsibleness! Boris Tadic represents this country, he is the president of Serbia. It's to that extent a stupid statement, so unserious, so irresponsible. At least as president of the state, he was expected to say what he stands for as president of the state when it comes to defending our territory. That Kosovo and Metohija belong to us under every international law, that all documents tell us that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. But that's one irresponsible thing. That responsibility was not in the 1990s. In the 1990s it was really hard, the state was serious, responsible, but we were attacked from all sides, we had to defend our people, we had to provide basic conditions for life. It was all difficult, but it was responsible, because in most cases the responsible people were at the head of both states and all ministries, and when we talk about this policy, in the 1990s at the head of the Ministry of Health was Professor Milos Banicevic, a respected doctor, professor, expert on this topic we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24191	According to the same amendment, MP Petar Jojic has the same word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is certain that you coalition gentlemen, who represent the majority, will not adopt this amendment, which was tabled by the Socialist Party of Serbia, which was spoken of by Mr Tom. However, it is certain that you will not adopt an amendment to the SRS either, but I will only remind you, and to remind the public, is not a waste, because it is very important and useful for our public, here is how the Pancheva municipality thinks of children, their health, their birth and the white plague. You are also familiar with you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that Pančev is the most polluted city in the Republic of Serbia, that the city in which the citizens die of cancer due, among other things, to the bombing of the NATO Pact. You can think that today he was sitting at the Council for Urbanism and Environmental Protection in Panchev and he put the president of the Pancheva municipality on the agenda and brought it to the conclusion that the park should turn into a plot on which to build a gas station for someone, only the local authorities of the famous, investor. Panchevo has 12 gas stations. Panchevo has a refinery, Azotara, Petrochemia, and, for evil to be greater, there is a dump in the middle of the city. The dump started to be built 10 years ago, and the rest of the waste in every street I don't talk about. Is it possible to take care of children like this? That's where the president of the Democratic Community is. What Mr Krasic said, there is, as far as I know, 12 councilmen out of 70. Few DSS and other coalition partners attach importance to numerous problems of Serbian citizens, i.e. Panchev. So, it's all done under command and control of the DS. Has it occurred to the president of the municipality, who is also in the DS, to suggest that the park area, called for by the city of Panchevo, be turned into a plot on which to build a gas station? Look, it's probably, what Mr. Krasic said, he remembers very important things, a little pump in Panchev on the head of the population. I have to admit, I didn't come out here for any other reason, except to tell the Pancians that today we were able to stand up to the Council for Urbanism and Environmental Protection to allow such a thing to be allowed to someone, to build a gas station in the middle of town, and to further burden and endanger the environment in Panceva. This is the city most threatened with environmental protection, as well as the local coalition government when it came on October 5th, as well as in the elections in late 2004, promised to do anything to solve environmental pollution problems. But there's nothing out of it. The people of Panchev are exposed to one sea unremembered in these areas. What did the president of the municipality and the local government do? They installed a siren just to inform the citizens to close the windows and not go out when there's too much pollution, 10,000 times more than allowed. He and that local government managed only to install on one building, i.e. a multi-story, siren, which will only inform the citizens – do not go out, close the windows and doors, because it is the only way you can survive in the city. We thus, they say, have provided you with environmental protection in a limited closed area. You see, Panchevo is one of the cities the government has not given enough attention to, and it is a city that has to earn priority over other cities. Pancevo is a municipality with the largest budget as a municipality in the Republic of Serbia. So, 2.5 billion dinars are at stake. You can imagine that they planned to finance the American Foundation, allocate millions from the budget, and it is known that the citizens of Panchev, as well as Serbia and other parts, are poor. You see, the wealthy Americans need to finance the organs and citizens of Panchev and the environment from tax administrations and communal taxes. Is that an example of household business? No, it's the biggest crime and, the ugliest and most unjust, it can happen in one city. Imagine that the office of the president of the municipality is a little smaller than the cabinet of the Prime Minister; what are these givings, where are the money going? No one knows, and most importantly, Mr. Lalovic is here, so tell the finance minister to send a budget inspection to Panchevo to determine the real financial situation for the last four years, because no one knows... This morning I asked the Chief of Finance for a report and data – come on, tell us where the money went from the budget. He says there's money at the banks, we gave it to the banks. Among other things, Delta Bank, AIK Bank, Kula Banka, Privredna Banka Pančevo, and the citizens of Pancheva lack 90km of sewage. To make evil even bigger, there are 90km of sewerage missing, and citizens pay and receive bills to pay the costs relative to the position of wastewater. Four and a half thousand households, according to our estimate, have septic caves, and they have nowhere to drop that waste water, but local self-government is charging. That's why the Pancheva municipality's budget is two and a half billion, so 380 million environmental taxes, with no sign of a voice. Citizens are dying, the hospital is in catastrophic condition, and the health center. No one to turn their heads, no one to help. Imagine, some say, it's an investment to build gas stations in the park. So you build a factory, you have space around Panchev as much as you want in that plain, but don't endanger the environment, don't endanger the health of the Panchev citizens. The pensioners and the disabled, who were 23,000 in Panchev, were assigned to give them 28.000 dinars for some help. It's something a man can't... We Serbian radicals oppose such a policy because it is not a policy that leads towards helping citizens and poor people. No, I don't. You'll see how increased employment is in public utility companies. So 30-40% has been employed for the last year or two days. Where did these people get the courage? Secondly, money and decisions of the Assembly are provided for the construction of roads, for the capital investment of some physical halls, for building and asphalting streets and sidewalks. But there's nothing out of it. When we ask where the money is, we, he says, put it on the safe. What security? He says, "Let them be at the bank, so the bank can secure taxpayers' money." People want to see streets, sewers, want to see at least one apartment building being built in Panchev, one crane being built, as in other cities in the Republic of Serbia. That's what I have to do, here I was forced, for who knows which time, to appeal to you, gentlemen of the coalition that you are making the current government in the Republic of Serbia, to take some measures, because there was a promise a year ago that something in Panchev would happen. I'm telling you, until a budget inspection is sent out of the Republic's portfolio, no one will know where the money is and where it's being spent. I say responsibly, and let me be denied by the president of the municipality, let me be denied by local self-government, because none of the citizens know where the money is. The other day in the assembly of the municipality, when we MPs of the SRS asked the question – where is the money, Mr President, why is the investment not made and why the decision is not implemented when the decision is made and is set aside by the positions of certain funds, the president of the municipality said – I will write it down at the end of the year and deliver it to you. What we have from what the citizens of Panchev have from the fact that the president of the municipality is going to say at the end of the year who's to blame for not having made the budget. He is responsible for implementing the budget under the Budgetary System Act, he is in line with the Law on Local Self-Government. You see, again, Mr Krasic points to important facts when it comes to this problem. The problem is serious, and therefore Serbian radicals will never allow such a local policy to be conducted. I must say that the citizens of Panchev are threatened on a number of issues, but that local self-government, due to party interests, intricacies, ignorance and incompetence, is doing nothing but doing harm to the citizens. Let the local government in Panchev show and announce to the public that it has made one of hundreds of promises. I'm telling you here, no promise has been made. The representatives of the Serbian Radical Party will... And today we've sent a press release through local public information funds to point out to local chiefs to take care of and investigate and see how they're going to get ahead of voters, how they're going to get to the 27th Council and explain to them where the money is and what they've done. This inauguration today under this amendment is just one message to the citizens of Panchev, a message to the government and one proposal to send an emergency budget inspection to determine the actual situation and to inform taxpayers and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24193	I thank you, Mr. Jojic, for making a huge contribution to the reasons for the amendments to Article 12 of Mr. Peric and Mr. Petronivic. A modest contribution to, yes... Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24194	I don't know if anyone has informed Vojislav Kostunica and his government about the economic crisis and social misery that Serbian citizens are living in today. I don't think so, given the government's non-domestic behavior. In this context, I would like to be answered by the question of who is funding these powerful billboards of the feminist movement Leila Ruzdic, there is something in the corner – the Committee for Gender Equality of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I linked it to this feminist movement behind Leila Ruzdić, of course, at the time they were in this assembly. I don't know why it takes the government to pay that kind of money for these billboards, because we all know that advertising on billboards costs a lot. I don't know who's been hanging out with the owners of those billboards, whether they're from the government, whether Boris Tadic. I don't know why it's necessary for those billboards just to be equal and equal. We have the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Minister, even though it's funny for you and your associates, which says we're all equal. I now expect, as I come across Belgrade, that every day I will see one member of the Constitution on billboards throughout Belgrade. It's irresponsible, it's irresponsible, Minister, for this area you're in charge of, and especially for you, it's irresponsible and irresponsible. Article 15. The proposal for this law speaks of a member of the 22nd basic law whose position is changed and reads, according to the government's proposal: "The amount of child's allowance is harmonised on 1 April and 1 October of the current year, based on statistics, with the movement of the cost of living on the territory of the Republic in the previous six months. "This approach, and we Serbian radicals speak in principle every time you try to deceive Serbian citizens, and so did those before you, it's been modern since 2000, it's one of the current so-called liquids. democracy, and in this way, you cheat on Serbian citizens to coordinate everything with the cost of living. Then you publish the data on the cost of living, in agreement with the statistics, the way it suits you. You know well that I am now telling the truth and that you used to say it, too, remember, Serbian citizens probably remember all the promises in the election campaigns. That is why we have proposed, or co-worker Vojislav Milajic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that Article 15 instead of the cost of life, it is written that the height of the child's allowance is aligned with the average earnings. It's only realistic and it's the only thing that can be traced and it's the only logical solution in harmonising the child's supplement. Otherwise, the problem of a child's supplement deserves a special story, a special comment and speaks in an exact way about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these and those two previous governments, according to the problem of the white plague, which you only talk about when you appear somewhere in the media, and essentially do nothing to really solve this problem. Those before you were in 2002... In fact, you've been in that previous government, so you're not new, you've changed that child welfare law of this new law called the Family Financial Support Act with children. Today they are on the agenda to amend and supplement that law. Why did you change a law that was better than this, I don't know, maybe this title looks more European than our previous, very simple name. What's characteristic of that law and yours now? The law, in addition to this social category, has also taken care of population problems in Serbia, and yours today has been reduced only to the social category, in a very characteristic way. The participation in the Republic of Serbia's 1998 budget for social care for children was 10.1% compared to Serbia's budget. It was 1998, to remind you, in front of the bombing, the time of the sanctions, a very difficult time. So in that period 10.1% were intended for social care for children. In time, so-called. democratic changes in 2002, at the discretion of the government at the time, only 7.4% of budgets are defined for social care for children. Every year, it falls on a percentage. Every year, fewer and fewer funds are allocated to social care for children, i.e. specifically children's allowances. Then we have data as the number of children's supplements users decreases. Why? Because it is almost impossible in Serbia to achieve a child's supplement. It took 3,054 dinars in 2003 in the last quarter to get a child's allowance. Today it's over 5,000 dinars. First, no one has explained to us why this amount has been increased by 2,000 dinars since 2003. Is this recognition of how much the cost of living has increased in Serbia, does this talk about inflation, about the increase in wages, about increasing the number of people who used to be employed and, meanwhile, lost their jobs? Of course, he's talking about everything together. It is amazing that over 5,000 dinars are needed per family member to achieve a child’s supplement. Let me ask you something. In the neighborhood, I have a family that has triplets, three kids, thank God, living, healthy, beautiful, smart. They can't make a child's allowance because their total income for about 200 dinars exceeds that quota. The bottom line is that they don't actually have regular incomes, because the mother is a nurse and she has a regular salary, the father works at a failed Earth firm that gets a few months, and then something gets collected, so maybe they get two salaries all of a sudden, but then it counts statistically. How they can, with some, in that way, win 25,000 dinars to survive and not get a child's allowance, that's all they know. Furthermore, I received information specifically from one family from Smederjevska Palanka, and there are certainly as many as you want in Serbia. They had ten children and received a child's allowance. Meanwhile, out of ten children, three graduated from high school and the consequence is that no child can get a child's allowance anymore. Like, these three got schooled and now let them take care of the others. That's how this law of yours was made. Of course, there's no more what's been under this previous law on child welfare, that a third child is automatically given a child's allowance. No, but it takes four or five times a year for you to provide new documentation, so much paper to achieve a child's supplement that people are simply sick and tired of the idea that every three months they need new documentation to collect. Imagine they have to bring some sort of credentials from the birthplace of both parents. If they have received an inheritance, a country, 300, 500 or not, even now in another republic of the country, they have become Serbian citizens, such parents cannot make a child's allowance because they have a country in BiH or Croatia. Of course, if they have a country in Serbia, but if it's a long way from their place of residence, no one's processing that country, the kind of income they get from it; as I benefit from what I have in Livno. So that's how you regulated it, that on all sides of this law, so you figured out that as few Serbian citizens as possible can achieve a child's supplement, and the fact is that more and more people whose child's supplement is necessary, because more and more people are out of work. I guess that's the first and basic reason to exercise the right to a child's allowance. Based on this law, you can frigate statistical data and then brag about the number of those families that need a child's supplement, which means improving living standards, and you don't say that the state is 9.8 euros a month for social care for children. What can be done with so much money, given the various laws that preceded this one or were passed at the same time with this law, which are taxed on everything that can be taxed? So, you, gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, don't take care of the citizens of Serbia, not one category. You don't care about the white plague. However, to you personally, Ministers, this does not apply, at least you have made a personal contribution and every honour to you, I am talking about the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government towards this great problem. That is why our amendments, especially this amendment to Article 12, were given, we may not even have followed up on our party's definition that the parental supplement should and must be paid suddenly, but even here we gave in and we said – one part at a time, and the other at war, in order to ease this divergence of your parental allowance to 24 wars, expecting that perhaps, when you see that we have proposed a compromise, and certainly a better solution, you will accept that amendment. Of course, you weren't there to listen to your colleagues talk about that amendment. You're listening to me. But I don't know what else I have to tell you to convince you that the amendment submitted to Article 15 is indeed the only right, realistic and fair solution – that the height of the child's allowance is consistent not with the cost of living, but with the average profit. Obviously you won't understand it, or that's the attitude of the new authorities, because that's what the previous government advocated. You want to have such laws that after interpreting the application of the law, you can blur the eyes of Serbian citizens. But you can talk as much as you want and about the cost of life, the level of inflation, etc., Serbian citizens know what conditions they live in, Serbian citizens know they barely survive. If you have a ministry called the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, let's at least take some of these three segments into account, except you'll bring the Chinese to Serbia to work instead of the citizens of Serbia. Neither as minister of labour, employment, nor as minister of social policy, did you really do anything good, nothing that would contribute to the better life of Serbian citizens. I urge you once again, accept this amendment, or at least let your colleagues do so when they vote on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24195	I thank the People's Councilman, Vereca Radeti. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search of the bill in particular, does the representative of the Proposer, Minister Lalovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The speech has the Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Slobodan Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24196	I'd just like to say a few things that I think are important to make known. When it comes to social protection reform, which I was talking about, which we are now entering, in 2006, there will be a year of serious business in the area. The result will be, in about two years' time, from today – the adoption of a new social protection law that will in a different way regulate the entire area. In order to pass a new social protection law, we will not break anything over our knees overnight. Simply, over the next two years, we will check on certain pilot projects, certain activities, individual solutions. So instead of cutting something off, so it's bad, we want to check out a lot of things, and then we're going to get a new social protection law that's going to regulate this area differently. When I say - in a different way, first of all, I think of one simple thing, which is that the whole angle is shifted in that sense that we're going to look at this area primarily from the corner of the user. All that we are now doing in the area of reform of this system will be, as an impediment point, actually the interest of the users and the whole reform will go in that direction. I'm giving it as information, because that question was kind of open for this speaker. As far as the second part is concerned, there is also one objection that has been made and is mentioned here about these famous maternity benefits, where we are now introducing a different legal solution to what has been so far. Unfortunately, abuses in the area were so widespread that we had to act by amending the law. Unfortunately, abuses in some other segments, in the use of rights in this area, are so widespread that it endangers the exercise of the right itself. I would like to emphasise, without the appointment of a city and place, it is simply not good, because I think that phenomenon is wider, for example, in the area of the use of children's allowances in Serbia in many cities is so widespread that we can say that in some places more than 50% of the users do not have the right to a child's allowance on any basis under the applicable rules. Why am I stressing both of these things, both of these mass abuses? Because with the means available that we have, if there were not so many abuses, we could use these resources much more usefully, starting with what some MPs here have been completely resolutely saying – that it would be good if we had a slightly greater censorship to exercise the right to a child's allowance. In order to have a bigger censorship, we need to have the resources we need. In order to have the necessary resources, of course, in addition to the necessity to continue strong economic development in Serbia, should be misused in the exercise of certain rights, which are mass, at least reduce to individual and controversial ones. To be very specific: the problem, for example, of our ministry of work, not only of this ministry, is that we have several employees in what is called surveillance. A fellow MP mentioned earlier the need for a budget inspection to go to a municipality or city, of course, I will pass it on to my colleague Dinkic, but I point out one problem, especially because of the citizens of Serbia: we have four-five people in charge, and you know how many municipalities Serbia has. If in most of these municipalities or in many of them you have such widespread mass abuses in the use of individual rights in the field of social protection, then we are indeed as a state, as a people in very big trouble whatever anyone has said from this pay phone. When you're in a situation where you're looking at 300 items in one city about the use of children's allowance rights and in those 300 no user uses that right in accordance with the law, the first 300 squad, then what can we conclude is, what's actually going on here? What we can conclude, what should also be local self-government and local government to sense – a much higher degree of responsibility for what is the situation in their environment. There is an absurd situation here, on the one hand, talking about the need for decentralisation, that local authorities have as many authorities as possible, which of course sounds nice, is a European trend, but on the other hand it seems that many local authorities do not think that there should be adequate responsibilities at the same time. The greater the rights, the greater the responsibility. What's happening in this segment, I know it's not popular to talk about, and that's the truth about us. Who are those 300 people in that place in Serbia, what we call an establishment, roughly, of a local environment, which determines the abuse of legal law and unfounded take and use a child's supplement? I think it's very serious stuff. It's how we take the whole system down. This ministry will now jump to this abuse of maternity benefits; whatever you say, we will now jump to it. Also, with a child's supplement, we will try to find a solution, given the restrictions with the people, to pass through Serbia, and that the right to a child's allowance is indeed the one who should have that right. Then we can probably go that way so the censorship is 5,000 or 5,500, or whatever it is. I'm absolutely up for it, you just have to create the conditions in which you can work. Otherwise, it's a story for little kids, a story that's being told for public purposes, not because there's something that wants to be done. I think there's something we should do. In this context, this story is also mentioned on how to coordinate social security benefits, as a central issue, as one of the important issues. So, at all in the social protection system in general, you've recently seen when there was a pension law to go also in that direction, and now an existing solution, that all receipts are in line with the cost of living. It's one general rule, it exists in the whole social protection system and it will still be in that social protection system, because there's the idea of real preservation of the value of social giving, not its real growth, in the sense that man can't make money if he gets help from the state. What the state needs to take care of is to preserve the real value of this social income. That's why the receipts are consistent with the cost of living. Of course, this speaker can be said that the Republic Bureau of Statistics falsifies this data or that one, but I'm talking about the bottom line, this other is politics. I'm not talking politics here, I'm talking about the essence. Why I'm talking about the essence, although I know it's very often present, when it's spoken in this room and spread out in public, it's said – when it comes to politics, it's important to make an impression, it's not important facts. What you're making is important. Honestly, I don't care about that, and I'm very old-fashioned here. I think the facts are much more important than the impression, the point-gathering. The facts about these three laws, which I'm going to say a few things about, are very simple. When it comes to agricultural pensioners and agricultural pensions, what we have as a situation, which is here and said, this system of introducing mandatory social insurance for pensioners from the beginning has been the wrong story, it takes 20 years. That system has been struggling for 20 years. What we found, this government, was a 22.5-retirement delay, a long time ago. Now it's a 20.5 pension delay. There's also one thing that goes beyond here when it comes to the agricultural fund for pensioners, which is that about 12% of the taxpayers pay contributions, of the possible 100%. Is that fund supposed to exist like that, and is it supposed to work? This assembly will be faced with an amendment proposal in the spring, regardless of the discards, the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, where we will try to solve the problem of agricultural pensioners systematically. This doesn't lead to anything right now. If he pays 12% of the total taxpayers, that system doesn't work. Either we go with a solution to be a full budget commitment, a state-owned one, and then the contribution is not important at all, or another solution, but it can certainly expect the Serbian public to provide a permanent response to the issue of agricultural pensions in the spring of next year, with my personal determination that we have to have this system and that we have to give pensions to farmers. How we're going to do that, you're going to get a chance to see next spring. As far as this proposal is concerned today, it's a simple matter. In view of such incomes, such a situation, we have put forward a proposal, it is before you that a debt of 20.5 pensions in this way will be paid back. We can talk and argue that it shouldn't have happened since 2006 and things like that, the bottom line of the story is that for a debt that's large, which can't be paid regularly out of income, we take the obligation by 2010 to pay it to the pensioners, to introduce a regular payment of agricultural pensions, after so many years, in the next month for the previous month. It's very simple stuff that we're proposing here. I'm sure most of them will accept it, and secondly, it's in the best interest of these farmers; at the same time, their pensions will now jump from their current pensions. It's about that law. With regard to the other two laws that are before you, or before us, a few simple things, I know that some people are uncomfortable and can't listen because they're facts. I don't use those words, unlike you. They're obviously very nervous; whenever you get to the fact, when we run away from creating impressions, they're nervous. I'm talking about facts. When it comes to the other two laws, we suggested a few very simple things. First, when it comes to civilian people with disabilities, 100% disabled people, it's about other people's care and help, these people need someone to help them because they're either blind or immobilized, they're the hardest disabled. They're about 12,500 in Serbia. As a first step in improving the overall situation of people with disabilities in Serbia, I would also like to stress that before this assembly in the spring there will also be two very important laws, systemically, for people with disabilities in Serbia, it is a law on employment and rehabilitation of disabled people, that whoever can return to the work process and try to earn a living, rather than feel demoted. The other law you'll have here is a law to prevent discrimination. So here we increase these 12,500 people's care and help from 60 to 160%, very simple. And, in the last, third law, we have two things: the introduction of a child's first child supplement and we have this to pay for the second, third and fourth children in 24 months, first of all because we're looking at the child's interest, not the one who gets that money and the list in a few days. These are the basics of these three laws we discussed today. All three are in the interest of those groups concerned: the first law is in the interest of pensioners of farmers, the second is in the interest of disabled people, the 100%, and the third law is in the interest of children. To finish this story with one optimistic and positive information, which I think should be said, because here they are very often prone to spreading defetism, disaster, etc. In the period from 2002 to 2004, after a long period of time, thanks to all these efforts we make, there has finally been a positive natural growth in Serbia. So, regardless of all the other stories you listen to here, you and the citizens of Serbia, the processes start a few years ago, the overall processes, without details, lead to that natural growth in Serbia is once again positive after so long, and that is actually a real and essential answer to the story of the white plague.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-20-0.u24197	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Tomorrow at 10.00 we continue our work.
