ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13859	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to the article. 99nd and 102nd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In her last address at yesterday's meeting, the minister of agriculture in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic, spoke about what she wanted and what she thought her theme was, submitted a report on the ministry's work for 25 minutes. That wasn't the subject of the agenda. The subject of the agenda is the Seed Act. If Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic wishes to submit to parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a report on the work, we will be happy to make clear and hear what she has to say about it. She obviously wanted to spend until 1800 hours last night and make it impossible for the MPs to react to another thing that was the subject of her exposure last night. So Article 99(1) says, "The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. "Article 102, in the last position, says - a reminder is given to the MP, of course, to other participants in the debate, and among other things - if other proceedings violate the order of the session or act contrary to the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. President, for warning her in line with this member, i.e. Minister, Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic. But what I want to say here concerns two sentences that Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic significantly injured the dignity of this parliament, upset the public in Serbia and divided the citizens of Serbia and Serbia into some two Serbias, which in an inappropriate way spoke about some people who instead of peaches in the freezers were driving corpses, which dealt with a whole series of other things and speculations that are not the place here. The relations between Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic and the SRS are their business and they will, of course, regulate how they think they should, but Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic at this point is not dependent on the SRS, nor on its ministry, nor on the government of the Republic of Serbia. Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic had no reason to have, in this way, a seed law – which was followed correctly by the parliamentary group of SPS: she did not write any amendments, she said she would support the law, she did not spend 10 minutes on the authorised representative in the debate and did not report any discussion debaters – she also says that she also associates about one time in which she had participated in a certain way. I don't want to talk about it right now. Please, Mr. President, and I ask each of us that the ministers do what they do. I am not Mrs. Gordana Matkovic's lawyer, former DOS minister, although I think of the government as the worst, she was an example of how one minister respected all the MPs and dealt only with issues on the agenda. Let Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic deal with the agricultural portfolio. Don't let strangers. Don't let him associate. Don't worry about those things that aren't on the agenda. Don't make us talk and apologize to the MPs. I am informing the National Assembly that the SPS will not take part in any further debate on this agenda point. Let him come, let him apologize, let him explain what two Serbians are in Serbia today. What is she talking about? Which Serbia stands for and who is it here? There are no two Serbias. Keep an eye on what he's doing. There are citizens of Serbia in Serbia. Each of us represents 30,000 Serbian citizens. One principle, one vote -- is the basic principle of democracy of parliamentaryism. Whose voices do they think they're making another Serbia? To kill this other one - if that's what he wants. It will not work that way for Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic. Let him explain what she was trying to say. I ask the MPs of the SPS to leave the meeting while this point is going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13860	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. I remind you, I'm a mild man, so in a mild way I'm doing it, just on the subject of two Serbian ministers, I gave a warning last night. Besides, I do it regularly when ministers talk like that, because it's my job to protect the dignity of the MPs. But I also ask the Members of Parliament to contribute to the efficiency of this call for parliament. Here you go, Mr. Machine. And Hranislav Peric, later on in Business, also called Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13861	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 99, Section 1 and Article 100, paragraphs 1 and 2. I'd like to make my dissatisfaction with Mrs. Dulic's speech last night through this advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I wouldn't go into the political evaluation of her speech, because what she said was long ago told stories; especially it didn't make any sense in the context of the debate on this law and on the area of agriculture to mention some things that had nothing to do with it. I support absolutely what Mr. Baralic said. I think he should apologize to all of us MPs for that part of the speech that referred to political evaluations that absolutely have no place, no sense. Through the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, I also want to point out some of the things she mentioned in her debate, which I don't think they stand for. First of all, doubts have been raised about party and political belongings and the orientation of institutions dealing with the production of variety seeds and it is in some way imputed that these people, these institutions, are politically defined according to the Serbian Radical Party. We, members of the Serbian Radical Party, would be glad to see that because it is about institutions that are extremely important and have extremely high quality scientific and professional personnel. But I must remind Mrs. Minister, as well as you who belong above all to the political party G17 plus, that Mr. Malesevic, the director of the institute, was also an assistant minister at the time of the ministry of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Vitosevic. Thus, the political commitment of individuals from the institute can be seen. In particular, I think it was inappropriate to impute the political commitment and membership of the Academyman Škorić, who is the world name in the area of production and selection of sunflowers and, how much my knowledge, I think that man is absolutely politically unspecified, does not belong to any party and I don't think it's right for this speaker in this sense to call him and impute him. Last night, it was said here that this ministry would not accept the monopoly and nobody's production of seed goods. In this country, the monopoly in production is owned by the Institute of Ratio and Vineyard and the Institute of Corn - Zemun polje. These are our two most famous and prominent institutions. I think that the obligation of the state and government, both of them and each other, to preserve these institutions, because these institutions as seed producers have, since the war, affected, most importantly, the increase and quality of plant production in our country. (President: Time. I think I have five minutes. (President: three minutes, but finish, it's okay. Don't interrupt me then, please. So, it is an obligation to preserve these institutions, not to talk about the monopoly, because they are not afraid of competition, just because they are competitive on the world market, but we, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, can never accept that some other foreign companies favour in areas where we have top production. Therefore, we will acknowledge such a monopoly that they have and support it. Furthermore, the institutions objected to the commission that it was not in the process of making draft laws and public debates, either in the option that the law would be the area of recognition of agricultural plant variety and registration in the register of agricultural plant varieties. It was then inserted. It's something that's true and shouldn't be challenged. Finally, our largest producers of seed plants absolutely advocate to pass a law on the protection of newly created varieties of agricultural and forest plants, thus creating the possibility of their membership in UPOV, as this allows their true competitiveness on the world market and avoiding all the research that should be done precisely by those who are not members of UPOV.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13862	Please, there's no quorum in the O.R. right now, as far as I can see electronically. So, please, let's see if there's a quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system, to determine if there is a quorum. The electronic system indicates the quorum is missing. I'm taking a break from 10 minutes. At the same time, I welcome representatives of Republika Srpska's parliament. [[After break - 12,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since there is no quorum yet, I am delaying the start of the session by 13.30. After that there won't be a break, use this time as a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we do that, please determine the quorum. Since we have a quorum to work on, before I give my word to Mrs Verice Radeti, who reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, just to read one piece of information: the session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, starting at 3:30 p.m., in the downstairs hall. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13865	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday at the end of the work, the Rules of Procedure were injured, several times. Articles 81, 109 and 100 have been injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 81. The Rules of Procedure refer to the working time of the Assembly. Yesterday, Parliament Speaker Ivana Dulic-Markovic allowed him to speak after working hours, and the MPs who intervened in the Rules of Procedure did not allow it. I know the president's gonna say it's only been three minutes, but the assembly works until 6:00. Any extension without a decision of the Assembly is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. If the Rules of Procedure had already been broken in three minutes for Ivana Dulic-Markovic, then it could have been three more times three minutes for MPs who asked to speak about the Rules of Procedure. Article 109 states that when members of the government participate in the work of parliament, they must respect the Rules of Procedure and that they are in the same treatment as the MPs, except they can get a word whenever they report. Predrag Markovic treated Ivana Dulic-Markovic in another way, allowing her to speak from 17.45 to 18.00 in the course of her presentation at the end of the working hours – which is the manner of the government's representatives, especially those from the party Ivana Dulic-Markovic, to be those who finish the daily work of the Assembly – said MPs lie. She was talking about the part of my discussion. So she said I was lying. Predrag Markovic didn't warn her. If the MP told another MP during the discussion that he is lying, then Predrag Markovic must use his business rights and draw the MP's attention to his behaviour. The 100th member was injured by the fact that Ivana Dulic-Markovic seriously injured the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. She was talking about two Serbians, talking about coolers. Of course, we know that Ivana Dulic-Markovic is not interested in Serbia, we know about her other love. The papers write about it. Of course, it can also be selected as a minister in the Croatian Parliament, because it meets the conditions created by its family members. The newspaper also wrote about it. When she spoke of genetically modified products, she said that somewhere in 1997 or 1998 there was imports of these products without any control. She says this law wants to put in control. Of course, we know she wants to do it controlled. (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) I was talking about the injury of three members. She wants to be controlled by the Monsanto firm. It is the American firm where Ivana Dulic-Markovic and Aleksandra Makaj, a health minister's assistant, go on a regular basis once a month. From them, they get good money for this type of co-operation and together, and through them they try to poison Serbia with genetically modified products. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian radicals won't allow it. We, unlike Ivana Dulic-Markovic, have no other homeland, we only have Serbia and we will keep it from those, be sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13866	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Shall I ask Mrs. Verice Radet if she asks that in the day of the vote, the Assembly be made aware of the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13867	As the chairman and I would not agree from the bench this way, because it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, I will say that yesterday Predrag Markovic, at the end of the presentation of Ivana Dulic-Markovic, tried to explain that he warned her that he should not have talked about two Serbs, that there were no two Serbs and that he should not have offended the MPs, but Predrag Markovic only did so when he saw three MPs raising the Rules of Procedure and that he wanted to intervene in the Rules of Procedure. If he were here, I know he'd try to explain now that he didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Since I know his answer, he doesn't have to repeat it, I'm asking the Assembly in the voting day to make a statement on the violation of Rules 81, 109 and 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13868	Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several times yesterday has been broken by the Rules of Procedure, Rule 100. I don't know, but lately, the last few months of the ministers' manners from a coded parliamentary group have been that instead of talking about the subject, talking about the law, coming out here and salting our minds, criticizing, calling out MPs, and forgetting that this is our job, that this is our home, that these are the guests who came here to convince us of the correctness, the validity of the legal projects they're proposing. Yesterday, before the end of the working day, it happened again, so let's go to the opening exposé, we could have forgiven Mrs Ivani Dulic-Markovic, but in the final word, between 17.50 and 18.10 hours, the worst insult at the expense of the Serb people said. However, in order to save 3,000 dinars, so as not to get a warning and not be punished, I won't say that she lied, but I'll say that she wasn't telling the truth when she said in the exposé that she stopped the import of genetically modified organisms, and it was specifically talked about genetically modified soybean. The only thing she said that she didn't lie was that she made the peasants who planted that genetically modified soybean soy soybean soybean soybean soybean soybeans sown with that soybeans. The farmers suffered great damage, not knowing that genetically modified seeds had been sown, which is why the soybeans were isolated. You know that according to European standards, 3% of genetically modified organisms can be introduced into the concentrate for animal nutrition. On July 3, 2001, the director of the Federal Institute for Plant and Animal Resources, Ivana Dulic-Markovic, allowed the import of 50,000 tonnes of genetically modified soybean through the "Transpeda". Signature and seal. Wait, that's not all: 26. Seven. In 2004, the solution of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs Dulic-Markovic, was the Minister of Agriculture, to import 1,270 tonnes; dated 26. Seven. In 2004, on the same day, only a second solution to import 1,307 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans; on days 18. 8. In 2004, 1,068.5 tonnes; days 18. 8. In 2004, therefore the same date, only the other importer, 824.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13870	Mr. Markovic, bring the end, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13871	I just want the MPs to see who allowed the import of genetically modified soybeans because yesterday morning and yesterday before the end of the working day, the minister was telling us something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13872	Yeah, but I'm telling you, you've been over three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13873	I'm using another 10 minutes. Here, I'll be done in a minute. Day 28. Seven. In 2004, 1,218 tonnes, dated 27. Seven. In 2004, 775 tonnes, dated 6. Nine. In 2004, 1,100 tonnes, and so on. This is part of the solution. I couldn't get a photocopy this morning when I was getting ready for today's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13874	Thank you. MP Miloljub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13875	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly, Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13876	Mr. Albianic, are you talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure? Replica. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13877	... has not mentioned any parliamentary group or political party. I'm surprised some people here recognize each other. Secondly, in the previous period there may have been divided into two Serbias, and what has been tried in the 1990s on patriots and traitors, but today there is no division. The current of October 5th and the introduction of democracy into Serbia is in fact that here everyone has the opportunity to express the political views of different political parties, but there is no division into two Serbias. As regards the soybean mentioned, the Law on genetically modified organisms was adopted on 11 May 2001, for the very reason that there would be no abuse in the previous period. That's the point and the truth. The second thing, regarding the Ministry of Agriculture, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic wanted to show what he looked like by 2000 and what he looks like today. In fact, if the economy was destroyed, agriculture was destroyed. She wanted to show which way I needed to go in the future. It is true: while Ms Ivana Dulic-Markovic is at the head of the Ministry of Agriculture, that the agricultural budget is three times larger, and that is the fact that, at this time in the Ministry of Agriculture, at which Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic is headed, agricultural loans are shared, both in the short and long term; that a strategy on the development of agriculture has been adopted, and it has not been before. So in a comprehensive way, we have a huge job in the area of agriculture and to help develop villages and our people who live off that kind of work. (President: You have exceeded your time) On the other hand, when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, it is unacceptable for the Rules of Procedure to be violated by that act itself and for certain qualifications and words that are not appropriate for this Parliament and this assembly building to be declared during the demonstration of the infringements of the Rules of Procedure. What is very important, which is that the Ministry of Agriculture feels progress, feels something that leads us to the EU in all areas; and even in agriculture we go that way and it is important to say that the country, when it joins the EU, has the most privileges in the area of agriculture, and so it will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13878	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13879	I would like these sherps to force us into Europe and who are using untruths here to convince the citizens of Serbia that there is prosperity waiting for us just to, say, read what it would look like in seed development. What it will look like in practice to issue a certificate of control authorities, the existence of official protection organisations, pesticide registration bodies, if we know that large agricultural systems have been declared in advance. Certainly, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is that the predecessor favored us, glorified our entry into the EU, and said that there is a huge amount of money waiting for us to be separated from agriculture, so let me tell our peasants what is really waiting for them, and I only limit myself to this law. It means that every small agricultural producer to meet the standards, and experts from the newly-soldic Agricultural Faculty believe that decomposing of possessions and unloading of combinations would be a mistake, especially in seed production. The director of the Institute of Ratio and Vr. Malešević says: "Without large land continents and isolated space there is no production of seeds. "We already have a problem where we produce seeds, so we are forced to work part of the business abroad. During the first stage of EU adaptation, 12 basic directives should be adopted in the area of seed, which regulate to the smallest detail the procedures with rape seeds, feed plants, cereals, potatoes, oil, pods, vegetables. Official examination of seeds and certification will be able to be carried out by private authorities, but the EU foresees even more stringent measures for production, control, printing system in the second phase. Decision 80/75 provides for the authorisation of the indelible printing of prohibited seed packaging information; Directive 75/502 restricts trade in seed of plant poa prantetis lg to seeds officially certified as basic seed; Decision 89/374 establishes conditions which the harvest must satisfy. Commission Decision 93/213 on seed potato classes provides for the participation of inert matter in soybean seed. As part of this regulation, Directives 93/63 and 93/78 control measures for trade in decorative plants and their seedlings, lists of reproductive and decorative plants which may be held in stock, health regime, passport issue fees, passport replacement, registration in the field of forestry, quarantine, testing laboratories. Commission Directive 92/105, which regulates pesticides, has been amended 13 times since the 1970s to date, prescribes an intellectual property protection process for new plant species. Now I'm interested, what happens if new plant species are compared with experts from Serbia and experts from France, for example, whose plant species will be recognised and whose species will not? Then, the management of agricultural land, with high restrictions on the use of fertilizers. You have to tell our peasants what's been waiting for them all over 15 years, when someone introduces them into the EU. They have been waiting for what Europe has been developing for hundreds of years, and you are sealing their laws, which are so-called. Experts from G17 plus translated, copied and forced this congregation to discuss them today. So today we are discussing what it will look like to protect the seed when we join the EU, and we are not discussing Kosovo and Metohija, we are not discussing JAT, we are not discussing theft, robbery, criminals. You've become so boastful and ossions that you're angry with those from whom your government depends, and you're angry with those who brought you into the government. I've been putting up with you here for ten days, and you're going out for a pay phone from G17 plus. You explain to Serbia what will happen after the next elections you will not be in. That's why you're just wasting our time. Here I am accepting, and I also said this to the new head of the EU's observation mission in Belgrade – take us into the EU, bring you 500 laws in ten days, we'll just raise our hands, and don't make us adopt 500 laws, look like a shoeed frog or that American suitcase, when they travel, and beautiful stickers, and we don't look any more like the country or the country. So tell the minister, if she ever dares to come here, I have a whole other story for her. This was a partially serious warning story, and the ministers will give a lecture if he ever shows up in this room. Tell her - the shame and shame for Serbia that Ivana Dulic-Markovic is her agriculture minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13880	According to Business Officer Momir Markovic, and after that, Mr Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13881	Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic has now broken the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. She changed her hair yesterday, painted her hair, put on her socks, but it still looks the same when she replicated it to me, or maybe it was someone else, and I didn't recognize it. All the solutions are with the minister's signature, all the solutions are with the ministry's signature. A few hundred thousand tons of soy juice, genetically modified soybeans, was imported only with her signature. What Minister Dulic-Markovic was talking about this morning, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13882	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13883	Mr. Mihailovich, Article 100. Of course, all MPs are obliged to speak with respect, but of course they do, at least all the data when they're talking about something here. I would remind Mr Albianic, since we are in the coalition, and it refers to his replica, that it is three times the budget for agriculture, because the proposal was voted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose head is Mr (let me finish, Mr Nikolic) Vojislav Kostunica, and most of the government is made up of DSS ministers, one more than all others. We don't do what you do, we don't go out and we don't say-- our budget or our ministers. This is a coalition government, there are four parties, five parties in the government, plus supporting the SPS government. The second step was, of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where most of the 131 MPs were adopted that three times the budget on the proposal of the minister and government. Please say a little more about the coalition in the future and a little less about the G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13884	The word has the People's MP Albianic, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13885	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt the budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it is an undisputed fact, such as the undisputed fact that in the programme objectives and programming principles G17 plus clearly states what measures we are taking in the area of agriculture that are now being implemented. You said you wanted to see what we'd do in the area of agriculture, so I'll tell you now. There are programming goals, if you want to read them for 2005, and it's explicitly written there. First, the registration of agricultural producers; despite some wanting to show this registration in a negative way, it has positive effects, and means this: all monetary subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget are available to registered agricultural producers. Registration of farmers means that it is no longer obliged to charge premiums and its products through intermediaries, but directly to business with the state. Also, for registered agricultural producers the price of diesel fuel is 17 dinars cheaper per litre. Agricultural producers registered may apply for short- and long-term agricultural loans. Then, they can get grants, premiums can be paid directly to their account. During 2004, 1,727,000,000 dinars were intended for short-term lending. The needs are higher and this is clear to all, but in 2004, 28,125 short-term loans were paid, on average 61,420 dinars. Furthermore, in the area of agriculture: measures to improve the village; support for the procurement of irrigation and machinery equipment; measures to improve the quality of milk, regressed fuel and regressed fertilisers; support for the construction of the long-term market for land leases; incentives for industrial plants, for milk, for the raising of multi-annual plantations, orchards and vineyards; support for the planting of vine plant; promotion measures in livestock; export incentives, etc. I'll remind you that in the area of agriculture it's more exported than imported. The G17 Plus MP group is proud of its agriculture minister for everything he does in his ministry and in this way, not only the country, therefore, represents one way in the world, but also encourages other ministries with its work. So let's all focus on something together that's important: helping the citizens of the village, helping to raise production, getting more from agriculture, because we can, that agriculture is our ticket to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13886	Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13887	Now he's doing his best here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13888	This was a replica of Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13889	This is now a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here is Minister Ivana Dulic, not respected my dignity as a MP. Let me remind you that, as Director of the Federal Institute of Plant and Genetic Resources, which she came to through the G17 Plus Institute, she has contracted the release of $250,000 from the US donation to the education of staff and other interested entities in the area of agriculture. These lectures are advertised by foreign varieties. In the negotiations and as some kind of advisor, Holly Higgins, who was in charge of conducting donations on the Balkan territory two years ago, is currently at the US Embassy in Belgrade. In two years, Ivana Dulic did not lead to a level that would ensure the protection and promotion of domestic seminary, but made it possible to favour foreign companies and their seed products and varieties. This directly caused damage to our agricultural production, as it stopped the development of domestic seminary. It deliberately slowed down its membership in the International Organisation of UPOV, as it failed to make changes to the Law on the Protection of Variety on the basis of recommendations from the UPOV commissions. The OECD membership tried to defuse the fact that it refused to grant the right to issue certificates to any of the institutions. At the time, Minister Veselin was suggested to send a letter to the OECD, stating that the SRJ is not ready for the implementation of the OECD and that it is awaiting the construction of a national seed testing laboratory in Belgrade, although it already exists in Novi Sad, as well as that it worked for the OECD and at the time of the former SFRJ, i.e. SRJ prior to the imposition of sanctions. She sabotaged the establishment of equivalence with the European Union, because the material sent by diplomatic mail was not deliberately delivered to Mr Bils, whom it was intended, but only after the end of the meeting to which it was to be done. Then, imagine, Croatia was given the right to equivalence, i.e. to sell seeds to the European Union countries, and it is necessary to judge whether there is a system in this, whether genetics are involved, and whether this genetics from MASPOK has been transferred to today's days in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What Ivani Dulic was the primary task, the establishment of a plant gene bank, was not done because it was not established, although many species are lost, and how it can be contaminated with GMOs, which enter our country with gray channels, but not even gray, because there are many approvals and signed by Ivana Dulic-Marković. Instead, it has been actively propagandising, making solutions for the authorisation of imports as an unauthorized body. When the competent border inspectors banned the import of such shipments, it acted through the vice-president of the then federal government of Miroljub Labus' illegal approval of imports. Instead of favouring a strict restriction on the import and transport of GMOs under the principles of the European Union, it is, on the contrary, contributing to maximum relief. In the National Council for Biological Safety, it appoints all promoters and lobbyists of Monsanto, as well as other companies. Don't convince us of what you can't convince us of. Some of you are the problem with genetics, I understand that. It affects both day and night, sensitive and insensitive. Don't let her drag you into it, there's no need. We are here now arguing about an absent woman, and why should I attack her who has not honored the Assembly to come here and why you defend her when she has not honored the Assembly to appear here. What kind of party is this that dictates the agenda here, brings the minister to give the opening lecture and then he leaves, leaves MPs arguing among themselves about what the minister wanted to say, what he did and what he didn't do? Did you bring in the government experts? Put them here in the first bench. In the first bench there are ministers to answer the questions of MPs, to respond, perhaps the MP cheats, perhaps not professional and sufficiently informed. The minister should also be the most professional, the most informed and the smallest deceiver. Give us those ministers to see, you gentlemen sherps, for taking us here for big money to the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13890	Mr. Albianic, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13891	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to make it clear to all - the parliamentary group is proud of both the Deputy Prime Minister and all the G17 Plus ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and they are experts. What's important, besides that, is that we defend the law here, the principle, the truth. I'm sorry if in the previous period, which has left a visible trail today, there was a totalitarian society; decisions by totalitarian groups are to be used most often, for a congregation speaker or outside, useful lie as an argument. What is also important is that this useful lie is repeated several times, so that some citizens may think it's true. It is also important that if people want to be properly informed, you can find all the information in the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, which is available to everyone. Everything would be fine if you had read, say, the agricultural informant for 2005, as well as on the government site of the Republic of Serbia, the section relating to the Ministry of Agriculture. You would see and know that the wish of the Ministry of Agriculture is to improve the village and agriculture and thus connect with the rest of the civilized world, as well as to use the benefits of the European Union to place our products. Of course, certain standards must be met, but we can do so, and therefore we get the benefits of exporting certain agricultural products to the countries of the European Union. I mentioned, earlier, that our exports are now larger than imports, but that's not enough. Our country can benefit even more from the Ministry, as well as from agricultural activities in our country. I ask that you treat this House with respect, that you do not use useful lies and inappropriate behavior on each of your exits for the assembly pay phone. I particularly consider it inappropriate to address Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic's personality as inappropriate. It's a group of G17s plus not that they won't let it, but they won't be able to do it. It is a feature of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, therefore, always principles, truth and advocacy for good laws, because it is the path that leads us to the European Union. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13892	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Nikolic, and Mr Mašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13893	I won't take your attention very long, but I would just like to warn the citizens of Serbia, given that Mrs. Ivana Dulic-Markovic understands very well in genetic modification, if she remains a minister, our cattle will begin to fade and sheep to torture.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13894	Here you go, Mr. Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising a breach of Article 100(2). The Rules of Procedure, and I'm about to advocate telling the truth. This is where the representative of the G17 parliamentary group presented certain truths related to the overall work, primarily the Ministry of Agriculture, so for the truth and the citizens who are watching us, we need to say some things that they really are. First of all, it was said that a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture was adopted. It, as a document, was not adopted by any authority only at the Ministry of Agriculture; there was a public debate at various instances, as well as by the Committee on Agriculture of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it has not yet been adopted by the government, and there is a recommendation to adopt it in the Republic Assembly. The next thing you know, it's about registering landlords. The fact is that this was proposed last year and at the same time conditioned that only registered holdings could receive funding from the Agricultural Budget. This puts a large number of agricultural producers in an unequal position, with only one-fifth or one-six agricultural holdings registered last year. Over the course of this year, that number has been slightly increased. However, a large number of our agricultural producers remain suspended for the incentive funds precisely because they failed to register. Some have not done so for personal reasons, and some fear that the registration will increase their taxes. The Committee on Agriculture suggests that this year, through the media, this measure is popular because registration of agricultural land is necessary. But it can't be the only condition for paying and financing agricultural production. Finally, the truth was also given – a positive balance was reached in the export of agricultural products in the last year. No, but last year, a budget deficit of 40m dinars was reached in the area of agricultural production. So 40 million is still more imported into the area of agriculture than agricultural products were exported. That's the truth to be told about a pay phone. Thank you. (Employee returning for a pay phone): As a representative of the parliamentary group, I ask that the quorum be determined. (Chairman: Wait, please. I'm asking you to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13896	Well, you didn't make a deal in time, but you're done, and it's normal to determine the quorum first and continue the work. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13897	After the break, we continue our afternoon work. According to official records, 102 MPs are present. Please, let's first determine the quorum for the follow-up. I ask Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronic voting system units. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The word has a minister of agriculture, forestry and water production, Mrs Ivana Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13898	Dear MPs, I apologize for not being able to attend today's session from the beginning, which the president has informed you of. I heard there was a whole series of inaccuracies I wanted to correct. So, all the programmes and projects that have been mentioned, as well as my work so far, as well as people who are not in the embassies, were for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, especially farmers. It is the principle by which we work in this ministry and I am glad that the Assembly supports it. Once again, I remind you that our joint effort to make a strategy for the development of agriculture is first presented to the Assembly Committee, which I believe the Committee members will inform their MPs if they have not already done so. I'm sorry I won't be able to attend the discussion of the details, but the representatives of the ministry will carefully consider any objection to the law, as they did during law-making. I thank the MP who withdrew the seven amendments and I believe that the Assembly will be very effective in considering this law in particular, as it did in principle. This law is in the highest interest of farmers and I have no doubt that each one of them takes care of it individually. I regret once again that I cannot attend the debate in detail because of my commitments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13899	One notice, at 4:00 p.m., the Legislative Committee will begin. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the seed law. In order to make it more clear to you, this law regulates: conditions and methods of production, processing, use, transport, import, testing of the quality of seed of agricultural plants, the distribution of agricultural plants, edible and medicinal plants, as well as the recognition of newly created domestic varieties, the approval of the introduction into the production of foreign varieties and the registration of varieties of agricultural plants in the register of varieties of agricultural plants. In the amendment, I ask for a new position 2: "Production of seeds, processing and transport of seeds to be carried out under conditions that are in accordance with this law, a contract for the multiplication of varieties and hybrids of agricultural plants, concluded by the holder of the right to protect the variety with other participants in seed production. "The treaty on the multiplication of varieties and hybrids of seed of agricultural plant is a basic instrument that regulates the relations of participants in seed production, which concludes the holder of the right to protect varieties with other participants in production. The regulation of this provision stresses the obligation to conclude this contract, which is also referred to by other provisions of the draft law, such as: Article 96, which provides that the inspector, within the framework of supervision, shall verify whether the right to use a variety with a plant protection holder has been regulated. So, at the end of Article 2, it says "conceal the holder of the right to protect the variety with other participants in seed production". The above point states that it is checking "if the right to use the variety with the holder of the right to protect the variety is regulated". With this amendment, I wanted to add a new position 2 to make Article 1 complete. I would ask the other fellow Members of Parliament to have an understanding for the amendments made by the SRS, because with these amendments, we think that the law or the proposal for a seed law will be the right law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13901	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13902	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you need to accept this amendment, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, was submitted by Mr Milorad Krstin, because he is in a much better way than the Proposer – the Ministry, whose head is the Minister who does not respect the National Assembly and the People's MPs, which we have seen from her earlier presentation – regulated the bill. The production, transport and protection of seeds in our country is certainly an area that needs to be regulated and we talked a lot about it in principle. Keep in mind this amendment, because it will, in any case, protect domestic producers and introduce much more control. I don't know who to talk to when MPs of the congregation are not interested, they're not following this debate at all. In order to wake you up and tear you up, I will tell the ministry gentlemen – and the minister doesn't respect you because she left you here even though she knows you don't have the opportunity to go out and give counterarguments – that today, because of all this happening in Serbia and the way the minister treats the people's representatives (and we are all here to protect farmers, and pensioners, and students, and workers and unemployed), she feels ashamed of every decent peasant in Serbia. It's amazing that anyone today, knowing that a woman like this is a minister of agriculture, can accept any legal proposal, even if it's best made up. And it's not, and it's from Mr. Krstin's amendment, and because of the fact that Mrs. Minister is involved in the biggest malfeasance in this country. You don't have any counterarguments. Why she didn't stay, the answer is very simple. What we're going to say about her and her machinations as long as she was the director of the Federal Plant Protection Institute, as an expert on G17, we're going to use this discussion for the rest of the day. Maybe we can convince you, too. who are the headquarters of such a coalition, and who you are silently not allowed to write about all that your coalition partners from G17 tell you, that it is a disgrace and a shame that this woman is the Minister of Agriculture. Sir, you who say you can write, you have warned them not to use the assembly pay phone for self-relating, especially for something that is not true and that every honest citizen of this country and every Serbian peasant knows. Don't convince me that today is one of the greatest evils that represents the politics of this group and the lady who is the minister of this group, convince yourself and your prime minister. Then you'll give me a sign that you're ready to get rid of something that personifies robbery, theft, kidnapping and deception of honest people, while during that time you're using, all of you who are well-involved in this congregation and elsewhere, the possibility of a very comfortable and pleasant life. And in the meantime, a woman like this is at the place of the minister of agriculture, while a Serb peasant gets more and more injured. Not that we don't have a perspective, but it systematically kills us and what people have been trained for and what they want to protect with such a bill; and what it does with, at least, suspicious businesses and organizations, with which it has so far been very successful in doing business for its own benefit and the benefit of the organization it belongs to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13903	On the occasion of the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13904	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here absent Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic could hear a lot through the defence of the amendments of the SRS MPs. She may not like it, but in the interest of Serbian agriculture it should be there and that many amendments should be accepted. National MP Milorad Krstin has submitted an amendment to add Article 1 to Article 2, which reads: "Production of seeds, processing and transport of seeds is carried out under conditions which, in accordance with this law, the contract on the multiplication of varieties and hybrids of agricultural plants is concluded by the holder of the right to protect the variety with other participants in seed production." The explanation of why the amendment was not accepted says: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the basic provisions of the bill specify the matter that regulates it. Area of Protection, etc." Current Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic, as director of the Federal Institute for Plant and Genetic Resources, came across the G17%, pardon, G17 plus, in the Institute, and it was not entirely competent, but it is not as important as it is that in two years she failed to provide a law regulating seed production in Serbia. The reason is very simple: the American firm Monsanto, which sponsors many of our minister's travels to the United States, and probably some exotic islands, pays all the study and all the other trips of the Minister. At least once a month, the minister leaves for Zagreb. The destination from where it goes to America is Zagreb, where it returns and comes from. The reason is very simple: the manufacturer of genetically modified organisms, the largest producer and exporter, of whom huge quantities and these genetically modified soybeans are imported into our country, is this company "Monsanto" from the United States. Remember that donation we made after the big one, which amounted to about two times 50,000 tons of genetically modified soybeans. Now, let me tell you and the citizens of Serbia, that all those quantities that entered the "Surcino Product" in Surcino, are processed in percentages that were determined by "Crmivore", ate our cattle. We ate that meat and the question is how much the health of the Serbian nation and the Serb population was affected only by that amount, and not to mention all the quantities for which I had previously shown you contracts, which were directly signed by Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, as well as solutions that she approved to import genetically modified soybeans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13905	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Kronic Vladislav.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13906	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my discussion of the first member of this law, on which counterpart Krstin submitted the amendment, is that this substance is regulated by the members of the 4th to 6. Since there was a word here about genetically modified soybeans, I'd just like to add a few words to that. Between 1997 and 2001, more than 250,000 tonnes of soybeans were imported into this country. It was not until 2001 that 50,000 tonnes of soybeans were imported, as a donation used for social programmes, for children's allowances. It's imported and a solution has been issued. However, the issue of genetically modified organisms was regulated by the 2001 Law, which was adopted by the Federal Assembly (11 May 2001 published in the Official Journal of the SRJ). As regards the law proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture – led by Mr. Sasa Vitosevic, whose deputy was my distinguished colleague, Prof. Dr. Miroslav Malešević, while his assistant was also my dear colleague Dr. Stevan Maširević – it has practically been impossible for genetically modified organisms to be imported into this country since 2001. After that date, every genetically modified organism found in this country is the subject of smuggling and illegal activity. In 1996, the Federal Institute for Genetic Resources was formed, whose director was my esteemed colleague, Prof. Dr. Jan Kizgeci, and his deputy, Professor George Glamocli. I hope these names are familiar enough for everyone in this congregation and we have no doubt that these distinguished gentlemen have really done their job. But by 2001, until this law was proposed and adopted, no matter how genetically modified organisms were regulated in this country; from that moment on, it was indeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13907	I remind another member of the Legislative Committee that the session began at 4:00 p.m. Neither are you mentioned, nor are you talking about your discussion, be kind, it's about Articles 1 and 6 of the Law. The law. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Committee on Agriculture propose that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13908	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by amendment to Article 2. I would like to propose that the position of the first member be deleted. This view reads: "The provisions of this law do not apply to the production and transport of genetically modified seed of agricultural plants, plant waste and mycelium of edible and medicinal mushrooms. "The amendment is given exactly what we think that, if this definition remains, in accordance with this law in our country, uncontrollable production of genetically modified seeds will be possible. It is precisely the basis of such a suspicion that Article 11 of this proposal provides for the possibility that the registered producer of the seed variety may, for the purposes of the foreign contracting authority, produce, supplement, examine seed of the variety not registered in the register of agricultural plant varieties. According to Article 2(2), the following article states: "The seed referred to in Article 1 may be produced, processed and examined under the previously obtained consent of the Ministry on the basis of a contract with the foreign contracting authority under which the contracting authority assumes the total quantity of the produced natural or processed seed." The adoption of this law will allow our manufacturers of products for a foreign client to produce seed only on the basis of the consent given by the Ministry of Agriculture, and that this member, or other members, has not been defined what the seed needs to be accomplished in order to be produced by our manufacturer, and we particularly think that it should have been decidently determined that no genetically modified seed can be produced. The proposer of this law rejected this amendment with the reason that the amendment is not accepted because the area of genetically modified organisms is regulated by the Law on genetically modified organisms and, for this reason, the position of the 1st member clearly divides between the production and transport of seeds and genetically modified seeds. And even genetically modified seeds are produced, if it stands to be divided between the production of seeds, and they are produced as such and used. Although we have an uncontested law like this, we all know that in our country in recent years they will increase areas planted with genetically modified plants. Therefore, this amendment meant, if someone wanted to produce seeds for a foreign client in our country, we should, and we counted on that to be understood, that this law would be decidently determined. In order to give consent to the production of seed for a foreign client, the Ministry of Agriculture must first request guarantees and certificates from the person ordering that the semen is not genetically modified. On the other hand, make sure that the orderee is obliged to allow us to examine the seed previously, to confirm that it is not genetically modified and only then to grant approval that such seed may be produced for the foreign client. It is not sufficient that it is a seed for a foreign client and that it should be taken over in total, and that this seed should not be used with us. According to our legal regulations, unfortunately and respect for the law... (President: Time)... objectively, it can always happen that a certain (finding immediately) amount of such seed, with genetic modification, remains here and that the surfaces already growing in our plants are increasing even more significantly. That is why we felt that this provision should be deleted and that this law applies to the production of all possible seeds in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-03-31-0.u13909	I'm sorry, I know it's about the amendment, but as you can see, there are not enough MPs present, as far as I can see electronically. Let's check it out. Please check the quorum. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. As you can see, not everyone does their job. There's no quorum. Resume session Tuesday at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
