ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23463	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that 99 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the meetings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Sava Urosevic and Blagica Kostic. We move on to the principle search of the 1-4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON INOVATION AND SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES, SERBIA ENCELOPEDIA AND THE SANIKRA Before we move to the agenda, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word is the People's MP Ivica Dačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I didn't answer because of November 29th, as some of them say, or because of Vuk Draskovic's birthday, as some of them say, I came forward because of much more serious things. I think our country must react immediately to two incidents that occurred yesterday. First, that Swiss Foreign Minister Mrs. Ray has again publicly advocated Kosovo and Metohija's independence. How long will this country tolerate the highest officials of other states speaking so publicly of the secession of the work of our territory? I ask that our country react sharply, even if it is necessary to end diplomatic relations with these countries. It's a normal reaction of a normal country to what's being done against her, her people and the state. Secondly, something happened in Bujanovac and Presevo yesterday, which no one thinks will happen only in Pristina, the Albanian flag is flying in Bujanovac and Presevo. Our country, too, must not look at it with its eyes closed. That's why I think this assembly should send as soon as possible to the competent state authorities to respond. The state defends itself with words, but the state, because it's a state, has other means, otherwise it wouldn't be called a state. So I ask you, apart from these topics that are important, to warn the competent state authorities that this practice must no longer be tolerated. If every minister of any country in the world can calmly say that part of our territory should be independent, and that we still kindly host it and do not react, then I don't know what the competent state authorities are going to do to us. The minister says she is doing it because of a large number of Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija living in Switzerland. What about the Serbs living in Switzerland? Is it because the women in Switzerland, who have no one to marry, marry the Cypriots to get the papers, is that a good and great reason for Kosovo to gain independence? Whether international channels of drug and arms smuggling are sufficient reason for Switzerland to advocate Kosovo and Metohija's independence. But it's not my place to say it, I'm not the president of the state, I'm not the government, I'm not the foreign minister, I'm the president of a parliamentary group. That's why, from me so much. Those who need to take care of it, pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23465	I would like to remind you, pursuant to Article 94, that, in agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on proposals for the agenda under points 1, 2, 3 and 4, and before the opening of a joint search. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, unless they have done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Law on Innovation Action, the Proposal for a Law on Scientific Action, the Proposal for a Law on Serbian Encyclopedia and the Bill on the Dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Does the Proposer's representative, Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, want to speak? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23466	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are proposals for four laws before you today in principle: the law on innovation, the law on scientific research, the law on Serbian encyclopedia and the law on the dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Let me, to be precise, as far as possible, speak a word of each of these laws. The Law on Scientific Action, which is its text proposed to you today, is convincingly the longest. He needs to fundamentally reform an important area of our social and scientific life. He should replace the 1993 Law, which was not bad at the time when it was passed, but a law that, due to everything that happened in the meantime, has been overcome by various other laws that have been passed, in the extreme line -- Serbia's development, in some of its terms today. The draft law on scientific research work in a conceptual way, according to its legal institutes, contained and individual solutions, is defined on a modern basis and in accordance with international standards in this area, of course, with respect to the real conditions in which science and our society are in general. The law, in part, relies on positive experiences from our practice and is in line with related system laws. The aim of the adoption of this law is to improve the existing state of play in the field of scientific research, to redefine existing relations and institutions in the system, to ensure more efficient and effective research work. This law provides a legal framework and environment for scientific research to become one of the main actors of overall economic and social development, together with higher education. In the long term, science, i.e. scientific research, must play a key role in the process of creating a knowledge-based society. In structural terms, the bill contains 13 chapters: basic provisions, general interest planning, quality assurance of scientific research, institutes, researchers, calling choices, funding, etc. This law establishes the planning and achievement of general interest in scientific research through the Scientific and Technological Development Strategy of the Republic of Serbia. This strategic document is brought by the Government. The strategy sets out long-term objectives, priorities and tasks in scientific and technological development and is achieved through 13 programmes of general interest. The law also regulates the quality assurance system and the efficiency of research work through the accreditation process. The institutions that care about the quality of scientific research are: the National Council, the Accreditation Committee, the Scientific Calls Commission, and what is important, which is now the first time – parent scientific committees. The parent scientific committees, through the competences that will be given to them by law, if this high home adopts this bill, will practically decide on all essential professional and scientific issues. The government, in good faith, from the ministry, as far as the assessment of expertise and expertise is concerned, will be moved and given to the scientific public. The ministry will become a well-centralised technocrat. The law regulates that scientific research is carried out by institutions of national importance: SANU and Matica Serbian, institutes, higher education institutions and, as stated in the law as a center of excellence, there is an amendment that, when the time comes for this, as regards the name of the center of excellence, we will adopt. The law regulates matter relating to institutes, their establishment, their organisation, the conditions for carrying out scientific research activities of general interest. The institutes, in accordance with the bill, can be scientific and research-developmental, and according to the ownership structure - state, private and mixed. Institutes can be privatised under a special programme adopted by the Government, but institutions of strategic importance for the Republic can be privatised so that at least 51% of the capital remains state-owned. The bodies of the institute, in accordance with the proposal of this law, are the Management Board and the Director, and the expert body is scientifically larger. This law also regulates research matter. The concept of researchers, ways and conditions of obtaining scientific or research titles, re-election, rights and obligations of staff at the institute, etc. is defined. For the first time, the law also regulates the award of awards and recognitions for scientific achievements and the lifesaving work of researchers. It is predicted that a researcher, calling a scientific advisor, can be extended to 67 years of age, and over 67 years of life, if he has the title of a worthy scientist, which is also a novelty. The law regulates the matter of funding scientific research. The law retains so far the existing institute of project, i.e. programme financing. It's a world standard and a world model. Many European Union countries are trying, at this point, to achieve what we have achieved by law in 1993. But there is a newspaper in this law. He predicts, in addition to projecting, and funding the material costs of the research work of the Institute, whose founder is the Republic, so-called "Republic". institutional financing, i.e. the financing of cold drive. Then funding specific programmes and projects of strategic and national importance and co-financing of regional projects and programmes. The transitional and final provisions regulate the issues of the legal regime of compliance with the provisions of the law, the deadlines for the adoption of the Strategy, the general interest programme, the sublegal acts, as well as the appointment of bodies and bodies set out in the law. Finally, as far as this law is concerned, in order for it in general, as well as its legal institutes and individual solutions to be implemented in practice, and for the desired objectives of science and scientific and research work to be achieved, I must point out in fact the application, as well as the appeal of all relevant subjects in scientific research and higher education, who participated in the public debate, for increased financial investment in fundamental and particularly applied research, the training of researchers, in scientific infrastructure, in the development and construction of scientific institutions. The aim of the European Union countries is to invest 1% of their gross social product from the budget by 2010, while a total of 3% of gross social products are invested in science, therefore, those extra 2% outside of the budget, primarily from the economy. I think that's the goal that we all have to achieve together, and that's the goal that this law is partially pursuing. It is the only way we can really help science do what needs to be done, be the backbone of the development of the Serbian economy. As for the second proposed law, the proposal for a law on innovation activity, I must say that the innovation activity is for the first time governed by the law. The reasons are that, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Environment think that this is more than necessary, as it is known that the degree of one country's development, including the number of patents, inventions, innovation and overall innovation in one society. On the other hand, the production results of innovative work are directly in the function of transfer of knowledge and technology to businesses, industrial branches and service activities. What was the problem so far was that the state had no way, since the innovative activity was not at all covered by any law, that it was organised and systematically working to encourage innovative action, in the end of the day, to participate in the financing of the proposal for innovative projects, to control their development and, why not, to control what would happen to the profits when these innovative projects live. This law defines innovative work, the concept of innovation, the bearers of this activity and the conditions under which innovation work is carried out. Innovation centres, research and development centres, higher education institutions, institutes, companies and entrepreneurs are responsible for innovation. Organisations for providing infrastructure support to innovation activity, as proposed by this law, are business-technological incubators and scientific and technological parks. The proposal for an Innovation Activity Act sets out the bodies and bodies for the development and implementation of the acceleration of innovation activity, and the proposal for this law provides that the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry, adopts innovation work programmes for the current financial year. The programme and projects are implemented through the public competition institution, and it is fully open. The law regulates the way in which innovation action is financed through the funds of the Republic's budget, the funds of the unit of local self-government, donations, funds and others. We think it is important to point out that funding from the Republic's budget is financed up to 50% of the necessary funds for the realisation of innovation projects. So we want to speed up co-operation between that part of science that deals with technological development, innovation projects and economy. The economy must also show a kind of interest, sit together and see what is really needed, and what the Serbian mind can provide. What is also important is that this bill establishes a fund for innovation activity. The Fund is a legal person who performs tasks relating to the financing and implementation of projects and programmes in the field of innovation activity. The bodies of the fund are the Management Board, the Director and the Supervisory Board. The law stipulates that autonomous province and units of local self-government can establish an Innovation Action Fund, which will be financed from revenues achieved on their territory. What we want is for the revenue that innovation projects, which technological development, therefore, are, if applied in practice, the incomes that they come up with, to return through such a fund to science and innovation, not to be scattered into consumption, to something that is not science and that is not, in this case, innovation. The transitional and final provisions set out questions concerning the deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts, the appointment of the fund bodies, when the deadline for the establishment and operation of the fund is. The third and fourth proposed laws, on the Serbian Encyclopedia and the SANU dictionary, are both similar and significantly different. They are similar because both of them edit two projects that the ministry considers to be of capital national importance, and they are different because the law on the Serb encyclopedia is talking about something that has not been done so far, and the proposal for a SANU dictionary on a project that lasts almost a hundred years. We are now talking about a bill on Serbian encyclopedia, unfortunately, one of the two people in Europe that does not have its own national encyclopedia. So there is no encyclopedia of the Serb people and Serbian countries, although this is the fourth attempt, the fourth variant of the law. Since 1989, attempts have taken place to propose legislation, which would organise work on our national encyclopedia, so to the national encyclopedia of Serbian countries and the Serb people, to this parliament and to create a legal framework for uninterrupted financing and organised work. Three previous drafts have never come, unfortunately, on the agenda of this parliament, and this may be a chance to correct that injustice. This law regulates labour carriers, which is SANU, an encyclopaedia publisher, issues of the work of the editor's board and central and professional editorials. Of course, if you vote this law, since next year, the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection will fund the work on our national encyclopedia. It is expected that ten volumes are done in ten years and that finally we Serbs have our own national encyclopedia. The draft law on the SANU dictionary, which is the shortest, as I said, speaks of a project that has been in existence for almost a hundred years, which has experienced the release of the first 17 volumes, but whose funding had its ups and downs. It is just that these declines would no longer exist, and the biggest fall was from 2000 to 2004, the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes the law. So to ensure continued work on the SANU dictionary and thus to show everyone together through this high house, to care for the Serbian language. As you could see, it's a relatively short bill, it's a law that regulates who's the holder of the business, when it comes to SANU, and it regulates the way of funding. I think this law would remove one failure that has existed so far, that there is no organised state access to finance this important law. I tried not to take too much time and too much of your attention. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23467	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the first National MP Milka Silajev, authorised representative of G17 Plus, and then Mr Mašić, the authorised representative of the SRS, and professor. Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23468	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, we now have seemingly easy things to resolve, easy laws to resolve, which are essential to the life of a country, for the name and name of that country, for its spiritual development. These are the laws that are now on the agenda. As a society on the road to modernisation, Serbia needs to pay particular attention to the role of science, the concept of transforming economy, culture and politics, because the modern world comes from postulates, where the development of knowledge, in particular scientific knowledge, is the backbone of overall social development. The Socialist Authority in Yugoslavia, programming, political, materially strongly supported science with strong ideological motives. We have to admit that. During that period, Serbian scientists were shoulder to shoulder with their colleagues from other developed countries. Just to illustrate that atomic physics scientists from Germany came to Vinci to work together with our scientists. It was proof that Serbia was at a high level at the time. The basic problem for the past five decades has been manifested in the irrational financing of scientific research, not researchers, of the absence of control over the development of research projects. As things stand now, in Serbian science things are worrying. A large number of scientists have gone and gone to other countries. Young frames aren't ready, they're not stimulated to do scientific work. The material position isn't good. A poor state of Serbian science contributes to the absence of a critical scientific public. She doesn't exist. In such circumstances, Serbian science loses its future. If we don't do something, the Serbs will be left without scientific institutes. What do we do? It is necessary that key state political institutions actors be aware that science can do the most for society and its development, more than powerful, power relations, ideological organisations, foreign models, media and others. It is that under equal legal conditions knowledge organisations should appear in competitions for public development needs, and this is also true for foreign institutes, equality in competition. If this condition of competence is denied, the damage will be felt by society and its institutions. Finally, Serbian science will have a future if it forms a personality, i.e. The person who serves things, serves clean, that's the definition of Max Webber. Two are the basic problems of our science; first, the axis of young scientists. And, according to relevant data, there were 3,500 researchers in Serbia in the institutes and about 2,000 in the universities in 2002. In Serbia, one researcher comes to 10,000 inhabitants, while in Hungary, for example, 30 researchers per 10,000 inhabitants. According to the number of researchers, Serbia is in Europe in the last place, and Turkey is in the last place. When this is added to the data that 0.26% of gross national income is singled out in Serbia, and in developed countries between 2% and 4%, the picture in Serbia is very unfavourable. In OECD countries, 65% of researchers are in industry and 25 in universities, and the rest is at state institutes. In Serbia, the situation is: 7% in industry, 66% in universities, 27% in state institutions. Serbia now needs projects related to the economy, primarily to free budgets for those areas that are known to not bring money and are needed. So scientists work on projects, solving concrete problems to save money and make new revenues. That's why it takes contacts with companies in Serbia, with cities, to see where science can help. The ministry should be a hub or a bridge between science, and I am deeply convinced that this ministry in this government can and will, between scientists and companies, or the world. The aim of law-making is to improve the existing state of play in the field of scientific research, to redefine existing relations and institutions in the system, to ensure more efficient and effective research work. Research and development, i.e. scientific research, in a period of social transformation, must play a key role as a driver of comprehensive reforms in the process of creating a knowledge-based society. The reasons for the adoption of the law on research activities are: the harmonisation of the existing law with the Law on Privatisation, the Law on Economic Society, the Law on Higher Education, the Labour Act and others. It is necessary to regulate the field of scientific research in a modern way, in order to streamline the network of scientific research organisations, and to ensure a more active role of science in the socio-economic development of the Republic and the creation of a knowledge-based society. The government is scheduled to adopt a strategy for scientific technological development. It must be in line with the general strategy of economic and social development. The quality of scientific research is cared for by the National Council, the Committee on Accreditation of Scientific Research Organisations, the Scientific Calls Commission, parent scientific committees, the Community of the Serbian Institute and the Ministry of Science Research. The ministry keeps a register of research organizations, records of researchers. The registration shall take place on the basis of the act on the fulfilment of the conditions for carrying out scientific research work. Funding funds for scientific research are provided in the Republic's budget, and on the basis of the projected competition, the funds are allocated. The government is due to adopt a strategy for the scientific technological development of the Republic within one year of the date of adoption of this law. Now, let's talk about the law of innovation. The basic driving force of society is the development of innovation work and needs continuous improvement. This area in our country has been very neglected. Therefore, it is necessary to create an innovation society. The aim of this law is to define basic organisational units and activities to encourage research and development and innovation activities. The specific provisions of this law define the Commission for the Monitoring of Development and Commercial Exploitation of Innovation, as an expert body with the task of preparing analyses on the state of innovation activity and compares it with world standards, initiates changes of laws to encourage innovation. The law provides for the establishment of an Innovation Labour Register in order to avoid duplication of capacity. The register is run by higher education and medium-tech companies, and their status is defined in relation to the degree of investment in research and development. In addition to higher education institutions and institutes that can deal with innovation work, this law defines other special organisations: development and production, research and development and innovation centres. The formation of such organisational continents creates conditions for individuals, with the necessary qualifications and programmes, to join smaller organisational continents that allow them to carry out scientific research activities, so that they can compete on individual projects financed from the budget. In this way, there is a dispersion of scientific research and innovation potential in the territory of the entire country. In this way, it can help the economy more directly in order to increase its competitiveness. This provides a chance to return young educated people with ideas to work and help develop the economy. The Development and Production Centre is an innovation organisation that deals with research, development and placement of its innovations on the market, and it is necessary to have at least two employees with high professional training and recognition of innovations or patents that can be produced or placed on the market, and that innovations created in universities and institutes can be placed on the market. The research and development centre is an innovation organization where development research is carried out, innovation creation and technology is called in its own production or production of others. In addition to a certain infrastructure, eight high-skilled employees, two of whom are called doctors of science and two other magistrates. The innovation centre is an organization where prototypes are developed, and new products, processes and other services are made, and there is a transfer of knowledge and technology in the production of other companies, and it is a condition that it has at least two employees with the scientific calling of a doctor of science, as well as 10 students at graduate academic or doctoral studies. The law also defines infrastructure support organisations and they are a special technological incubator and a scientific and technological park. The donor to this incubator was the Norwegian government in the MIN rooms, so we hope that this is the first review procedure in Serbia, there may be more, but I have no information. There'll probably be results. This provides a legal framework for the establishment and operation of these organisations in the form of companies. Innovation Action Programmes are brought by the government, on a proposal from the resolution minister, for the current budget year. Innovation projects can be approved by companies, higher education institutions and research organisations. The right intellectual property must be arranged by contract before the start of the project. The financing of innovation work may be made through budgets from the Republic to the local self-government unit. For the first time, such an opportunity has been created for local self-government to solve its problems in this way and to place funds for innovative work on its territory. The Investment Activity Fund shall be established as a legal person in state ownership and entered in the Register of Business Entities. The fund's revenue comes from budget funds, donations, contributions, assistance, funds achieved on the basis of the realisation of innovation, revenue from fund management and other sources in accordance with the law. The Fund can, with the government's consent, change its legal form and move into a stock company, but the participation of state capital must be 51%. For all participants applying modern technologies, implementing patent solutions, placing innovative products on the market, the Ministry can give consent to establish tax and customs incentives and other incentive measures. The funding for the first year of law implementation was foreseen by Serbia's 987m dinar budget. As far as SANU's language law is concerned, this is a big job and it is the obligation of every national science, both to its own people and to the international scientific public. The dictionary's holder is the SANU Institute of Serbian Language and the SANU publisher. In order to implement this law, additional resources should be allocated in the Republic's budget, amounting to 10 million dinars for this year. The reason for this law is to care about the Serbian language. The daily use of computers, satellite TV, Internet, new technologies, new goods, international division of work, a huge world market, and the unsustainable spread of English as the world's main language, represent a revolution in the life of homo sapiens and the start of building a global world order that erases the world's borders, reduces the difference between peoples, unify the world and inevitably affect the fate of the language of peoples who are in an inferior position. In the wording, a powerful technological civilization process will also affect the most remote parts of the globe, so that for the next 100 to 200 years, only stains will remain on the geographic map of many peoples and languages. Not to be fooled, we, the Serbian people, and his language belong to these small nations. So the future has world languages, languages of great nations. Of the little ones only those who are well studied and hard-cored, with full digitization done. So if we care about the preservation of our language and our speciality, we need to do what we haven't done in the next decade, which is to thoroughly process Serbian and surrender to generations. Otherwise, at the present time, the Serbian language is decomposed, without hosts and without cadastrian books. The Encyclopaedia Act is also important and it is undeniable that the Ministry, precisely realizing the importance of this law, has proposed this law. Starting with the strategic and vital interests of Serbian culture, SANU, Matica Srpska, as well as the higher science institutions in Serbia, they jointly launched an initiative in the National Assembly to pass laws on the Serb encyclopedia in 1990, believing it necessary to create a scientific lexiographic centre of general national importance, as most countries in the world have. The editorial board is scheduled to educate the professional editorials, and all the editors of the professional editorials are central newsrooms. The tasks and methods of operation of the central editorial shall be determined by the editorial board. The law provides for resources for work from the budget. The Encyclopedia should register the entire cultural and scientific heritage of the Serbian people, to answer questions about who we are, what we are capable of, how far we have already achieved and where we are going. As a sum of people's knowledge, his best sons from countless generations, she returns self-awareness to our people and needs convincingly to show that this world would be poorer without the Serb people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23469	The word is from MP Zoran Masic, an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23470	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will give a more thorough review of the proposed law on scientific research and other laws that we are considering today in the context of a united debate. Right at the beginning, I would like to resent the proposing, and especially the ruling majority in this House, which is what this time, as many times as we have discussed important, important and fundamental laws for certain areas, are proposing a united debate. I think there was a place, and also a time, in extreme and need, above all, to appreciate that this law refers to scientific research institutions and people who are engaged in scientific research in this country, and you will admit that these are also the most educated people in this country, that it was particularly necessary to discuss the law on scientific research, possibly the proposal for a law on innovation activity, and not reducing the importance of these two other proposals, perhaps particularly these two proposals. However, in the desire to complete the debate as soon as possible, it has been proposed this time, as many times so far when fundamental laws have been discussed, a united debate. We, representatives of the SRS, oppose such practice, and not to say that the amendments of the Rules of Procedure have really come up with work and debate on important laws, what kind of laws we are talking about today. I suppose the cameras that monitor this transmission can see, which certainly won't cheer up the people who do scientific research, that this number of MPs is present in the Assembly Hall, and above all from the ruling coalition. There are many more representatives of opposition parties here. But it needs you who represent the ruling majority in this House to deal with this problem. I'd like to go back to the draft laws we need to discuss today. I will spend most of my time on the proposal for a law on scientific research, because I find it very important and important for such an important social activity as scientific research. Through this debate, I will also give a critical reference to certain proposals and to comparisons with existing legal solutions in our country, possibly in the world. The first thing I would point to in this debate is precisely the adoption of a strategy for the scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia. So far, in recent years, especially since the creation of a new state, we have had a policy of scientific and technological development, which has been a defining document for scientific research and projects funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology. I think it's good to bring a strategy of scientific and technological development to our country. The only thing I object to is that if it intends that this strategy has real significance and especially as a binding document for the next government or the next assembly majority, then it may be necessary to consider adopting such a strategy in parliament. With this bill, the government is proposed to adopt a strategy, and then it is particularly incomprehensible that the government will bring it in 10 years. I don't think there's any reason to create a strategy for developing scientific research that is to be passed by the government, which has no more than four years, can extend the mandate to the next four years, but the laws, and the Constitution has limited that mandate and certainly the next government doesn't have to accept the strategy adopted by the previous one. That is why we have proposed that the strategy be cut short in front of the parliamentary group, that instead of 10 years be five years. But we remain on the point that all the strategies that are being adopted in this country, in order to have a clear justification, should be adopted by consensus of all MPs in the Assembly and then, as a legal document, have much greater weight. Although the strategy is something that can change in time anyway, but if the proposer defined it as 10 years, then he planned to create a deeper and more thorough vision for a longer period of time. What is relatively good in this law is regulated by the existence of a research programme of general interest in the Republic, and here there are some 14 points, where everything that is more or less and the existing law has been defined as fundamental, which is the Ministry and financed by and in which it has been participated. The only thing I don't understand is why the bill of law was given to the Ministry, i.e. The Minister, on a proposal from the National Council, sets out programmes for basic research, knowledge transfer and technology and fostering the application of the results of scientific research work, the research work programme of the Centre of Excellence and other programmes in line with the strategy, and not the other programmes that are listed here, which are also important. You will agree, the research programme in the field of technological development, the security and maintenance of scientific research equipment, space or development of the information society, the training of scientific and research staff, etc., all of these programmes on the proposal of the National Council of Ministers and Ministry should have accepted, not just to extract these three programmes, because I do not see them very special. Furthermore, what I consider to be relatively well defined and regulated by this proposal, which is not entirely an existing law, is to ensure the quality of scientific research. The proposal for this law provides a way and basis for quality assurance of research work, primarily through the establishment of the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, the Committee for Accreditation of Scientific Research Organisations, the Scientific Calls Commission, parent scientific committees, the Community of the Institute of Serbia, and eventually the Ministry stood as the sixth in this quality assurance facilitator. I think the ministry should be a little bit more put in place, respecting that a certain decentralisation should be carried out, but the ministry is still a key state body, which, by other laws, decides on many things and I don't see that the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development should be in front of the ministry, and in particular some other commissions. But maybe it's more technical just like this, and that's how the essential proposer sees his place and function in a higher instance. Something that's new in this law is exactly the National Council that's planned. We representatives of the SRS are in principle opposed to the formation of the National Council, because we view them as kind of para-state institutions, because these, and some other laws, are being given to these councils, precisely those which should have ministries as state bodies, and I think that something has been done here in this case as well. But what I would first of all like to point out is the composition proposed by the National Council Proposer to be 19 members, which is a parity of six members from the scientific institutes, as representatives of the Community of the Serbian Institute. What will happen to those institutes that are not within the Community of the Institute, have not entered the Community or entered the system, cannot give their representatives until they are accredited, met the conditions etc. Then, six university representatives and certainly there are seats for representatives of the Serbian Academy of Science, the Mother of Serbia and what we resent from the SRS, it is a proposal for three representatives to be given out of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. We still think that this is a scientific body, formed primarily by research workers and is enough to be one representative of the economy, so in that sense we have made an amendment to change this member and to be just one representative of the Chamber of Commerce, so that this council has 17 members instead of 19. What I consider to be given as the jurisdiction of the National Council, which I think is closer to the Ministry, is to give an opinion on laws and regulations or to set out opinions on laws and regulations in the field of scientific research. I think the Ministry should take care of both the laws and the sublaws, as well as the proposed strategy. The National Council should be the proposing to the Ministry. But we can differ in sight. What I think may be jurisdiction is that it adopts acts on the procedure and method of evaluation and quantitative demonstration of scientific research results, appoints and resolves members of the Scientific Calls Committee, etc. So, what we're given as an intelligence to this council, we support, but in principle we just need to define more clearly what is exclusive jurisdiction or what needs to be exclusive to the ministry's competence, and what is possibly one professional and scientific body, which should make up the proposals of some global research policy. What we think has the basis to accept is to form a committee for accreditation or accreditation of scientific research institutions. I think it will be very serious, above all, for scientific institutes, who have paid little attention over the past period to their overall scientific competence and the scientific competence of researchers, and especially to the elections in calling their associates. I personally have knowledge, and I suppose you, that some institutes have not held long term elections or that very low research competence indices, and therefore institutions, that simply some institutes haven't been project coordinators and bearers for years, simply didn't have competent people to propose projects and be accepted by the ministry, so that accreditation will certainly make this work serious. The management of the institute and the scientific higher as an expert body, in the end all researchers must take care to meet the requirements of accreditation. This will further enable the register to be entered, qualified and managed as a serious scientific research facility. It's something you can definitely accept. Next thing I know, it's a scientific calling committee. We've had that commission so far and it's given its positive results. For the past 10 years, the ministry may have had established criteria for selecting scientific titles, meaning how many index competences a researcher needs to meet, and from these so-called so-called. the hard coefficients, how we could baptize them, and how many others, how many researchers had to have published works in international magazines, at international meetings, which had just given this stronger index of competence, and finally how many of these competence indices must be filled by a scientific associate, how many senior scientific associates or scientific advisors. By contrast, universities had no such criteria. It is a good thing that this commission has remained, and in particular, that in its work there will be relief in assessing the fulfilment of the conditions and confirming the candidate's final election in the scientific calling, as it will have a previous opinion of the scientific council of the institute and committee. So far, the commission has worked by forwarding directly to the Commission, which was rather heterogeneous, but on the basis of clear criteria it was more or less objective, and where the relevant factors were respected it confirmed. It needs to establish a clear coordination between the parent committees and the scientific calling committee. If a parent board filter has passed before and a scientific council report has been accepted, it should in fact verify that it does not happen in the third instance to refuse and reverse the procedure. I don't think that's going to be done, but in this commission, there will be competent and responsible people who will take care of it and evaluate the results of scientific research properly. The community of the institute is planning its formation. I think the existing law gave such a possibility, because the Institute's register has been made up so far. It's even clearer here what that community does. It can even have legal personality status, and the essence of the proposal is that several related institutes use equipment or purchase equipment, then use laboratory space etc. So, she participates in projects together, gives greater quality in scientific research, and I think that's something that's well-conceived and hopefully that's how it's going to happen. I've already said, in the end as the last factor in these quality assessment factors is the Ministry, with just about nine key points. I think there was something else to write here from what was put into the jurisdiction of the National Council. Organizations carrying out scientific research activities are the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Mother of Serbs, scientific research organisations, and above all institutes, higher education institutions. It is good that the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, as well as the Serbian Matica, have a place in this law and I hope much more seriously and thoroughly that they will be financed than in previous periods. The Serbian mother was particularly neglected, since she was dislocated outside Belgrade, in Novi Sad. I personally know how many difficult years and problems they've had. I think that such institutions should be taken into account by the Ministry of Science and financed in the right way. Since my time is up, I will continue to discuss further what I did not say through the analysis of this law, so I would like to thank the chairman for this little overrun.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23471	The word has been made by MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23472	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I will surely respect the recommendation of my colleague Krasic, who initially said - do not read the reasoning of the law. I certainly won't read it because I always, first of all, look at the essence, the possibility of law enforcement, the problems that can arise during the implementation process, and all in order to achieve the best effects of these laws and subsequent changes and additions. So I'm not here to praise and raise a minister, but I'm still going to commend, because yesterday we passed the Budget Law. In this budget law, in that part that I liked most, which is structural reforms in the work of the matrix of the basic objectives and measures of economic and fiscal policy in the period from 2006 to 2008, it stands in that future when it comes to the scientific research innovation system, such as tasks, i.e. actions, the integration of the scientific research system with the economy, the adoption of laws on scientific research activities and the national strategy for the development of science and technology, accreditation of scientific research institutions, etc. So, here we are today starting to realize this programme for 2006-2008. As the minister said, there were no good laws missing before. The problem is always in the application and behaviour of all actors involved in the implementation process. When we adopted the Law on Higher Education, I said that there would be problems, as there are, because the higher education system, I feel free to say, is a skeletal, inert institution, which, although trust of brains, has become the most difficult change, precisely because a set of acquired and accumulated privileges. The same goes for the scientific research system. I want a lot of happiness and a minister in achieving his goals. There will be problems, as it has been. Just to remind you, when the previous minister tried to touch Vinci, do you know how it went? Why? He's touched the ossinac because there are a lot of people out there who are extremely comfortable living, maltenes without results, who spend very easily and raise our public spending. This is exactly where rationalisation needs to be carried out very effectively and to go towards those goals that can really make science a cornerstone of the development of the economic system, because if it isn't, then there's no point in being. When the Japanese were in Vinci, they were thrilled with that accelerator that's a black hole, which she swallowed, I don't know how much money, and they're just gonna swallow it, they were thrilled and they said it's wonderful that you have. When asked -- do you have, they said -- no, it's expensive for us. For the Japanese, it's expensive, it doesn't seem to be. That's what we're going to talk about in the next period and what we're going to do. By the way, as far as the law itself is concerned, I welcome all institutions, decentralised technocrats, strategy-making, accreditation, rationalization. It's all nice, but the resistance will be fierce. What I prefer to talk about, that's the other part -- how to create an innovation society? The essence of our problems, with our economy, is low competitiveness, absence from relevant markets, a very long period of time. A lot happened in the meantime, so in 2003 we had a global competitiveness index - 77; 2004 - 89; 2005 it improved to 80. What to do in that part in order to drastically improve competitiveness, because it is the only way to improve the quality of life in this country, to raise industry and to interest world markets in our products. In this particular part, I attended a high-quality meeting on the theme "Development of SMEs, innovation", and when Mr Dragan Povrenović was present here, describing the election action - the best innovation in the previous year, the finding, and this is an interesting fact, that the innovations were not attended by colleges and institutes. That's proof of what I'm talking about. These are institutions dealing with themselves, which have made scientific research a social, not a category development. In this story, I have long witnessed everything, because it was much easier for society to cut off some of the money from universities and institutes, in this way selectively one part of society to correct some of the incomes, the results were not even asked. So, six months to a year for innovation and strategic projects, you got some funding, people took care of it, no one worried about what the results would be. These results and their implementation in the economy are precisely the essence of complete scientific research activity. I hope that in this part of the next period, just using this kind of institution, something will be done, but I repeat, fierce resistance will be. This second part, which is much more interesting to me, but just because of the discrepancies of certain ministries, I want to give the government some regrets. It is, when we talk about an innovation society, I must say that my party - New Serbia in Belgrade, when those sterile intellectual circles hear its name, their hair rises on their heads, they expect beatings immediately, but in this party, I can tell you, in its business circles I have heard much more innovative quality ideas, because of the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of our people, than at many scientific gatherings. That's the point, because if we want an innovative society, it can only be an entrepreneurial society. Let me remind you, in America, 95% of the key innovations since World War II have to date introduced companies. It's the second component of innovative and scientific research, which I want to talk about, and the relationship between the entrepreneurial society and these institutions, because if we don't establish a good relationship and we don't start innovation in the companies themselves, we haven't done anything. For what? The entrepreneur is the main innovator, the most important link of economic development, the innovations are reflected in new jobs and in the total product. This spirit of American entrepreneurship has opened 21 million jobs in the last 10 years. It's something we need in the next period. Because that strategy I do not appreciate and I hope our government will change it quickly, Vlahovic, which is a strategy for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, is planned to create a million jobs by 2008, to increase the number of SMEs to 400,000, including 200,000 new ones. And in 2006, it's on the threshold, the strategy won't apply. We, in the last term on the Committee, saw it as an extremely bad one, we had much better alternatives, even here one of the ministers said -- it was inherited, we're going to change it; but the sooner we have to change it, precisely because of this entrepreneurial spirit and process, because entrepreneurship is the process of creating something from almost nothing. The will and determination of individuals who see an opportunity to enter the market, with extraordinary risk and determination to stay on it, are decisive, and entrepreneurs must be creative, innovative, with a strong motivation to achieve something and ready to gain the necessary experience and knowledge. How can you help them? We are now coming, in this law, to the envisaged institutions of innovation, development and manufacturing centres, research and development centres, innovation centres, business and technology incubators, scientific and technological parks, higher education institutions, institutes. And, in the end, they're companies and entrepreneurs, and I'd put them first. I'll use the other 10 minutes. This system of carriers of innovative work, it's my little grudge to this law, stands as a "chard" in the sky or on the ground. For what? You can't see his connection to an entrepreneurial society, to a business system, so where is the place for these institutions and how to connect them, or to network them with the economy. Unfortunately, our society is very late, so across Serbia, in many cities, many of us are trying to do something, we mostly squirm in front of the law, we do as we know and know, so in this system of support for entrepreneurship, in several cities, they've gone along a line of less resistance and they've formed free duty-free zones or just duty-free zones, because there's some law, such as that, from 1996, that allows it. So most of these free zones are actually just a state scam to not pay customs and VAT, and to get the goods through it. They're not real productive zones. I can commend Novi Sad and Zrenjanin with their attempts. But what's the bottom line, in order to bring innovation into the economy, we need something that, I don't know when it will arrive, is in this strategy, and that's in the words of the Ministry of Development and Economic Relations with the abroad, the law on industrial parks. Some call them parks, some zones, and in Kragujevac we already have an industrial zone, not as organised as it should be, but as a good start, as one of the first ones in Serbia, without talking about how it is in the world. When you look at the structure of such an industrial park or an industrial zone, not to go any further, let's start with that school example that appears in the textbooks on entrepreneurial management, that's the model "Emilia", there's the "Modenna" center. We're talking about Bologna, where the entire economy is based on industrial zones, on districts, that's what they call them, each one is formed for a particular branch. They have the strategic direction of their industry, so they took metal-processing, there's even Ferrari, ceramics, food industry and biomedicine. In each district, you have all these institutions that we talk about here in law, but all these institutions in that district, or park, are turned to users only, and in such parks there are 1,800 or 2,000 companies associated, meaning interesting, and all of these institutions are willing, they offer, and therefore, live profitablely, apply all their results of innovation activity. It is, in my opinion, at least my vision of the future in Serbia and the only possible way to make our economy an innovation, as an innovative society, and to raise the degree of competitiveness to such a level that we both have European Union and world markets at our disposal. And that's why we can -- I am from the Serbian party, but I'm not a nationalist, and in that sense, I appreciate something that is a fundamental component of the Serbian intelligence, which is creativity, innovation -- which is more than there are in others. I know that very well. That component of our character should allow it to develop, and it can develop right through these institutions. So talent needs to be recognized, encouraged, and pushed into that risk. I mean a business risk that means entrepreneurship in any way, and most often it's the most successful enterprise if it has an innovation component. In this way we will have a connection between these institutions that we talk about and businesses as the basics of everything, because it has to be an upgrade and we will have the results that we all hope for. I didn't read the explanation. I just wanted to point out good faith. At my place in Leskovac, you'll hear very soon, we're on the verge of forming as many as four industrial zones or parks, and the first is in the center of the agricultural area, right for food, or I mean technology for the processing of agricultural products, where we're going to bring in a large number of foreign investors. We're also working on the first business incubator. I understand that this law is specific in this sense, which is the subject of this Ministry of Innovation, scientific research, but when it comes to incubators, the process of incubation, there is not enough difference between these technological incubators, which will deal with innovation and in which we will aim to incubate business ideas, therefore, as one new idea to a new product, parallel to the incubation of entrepreneurs. From typical business incubators, like we need more at this point, because we need a large number of entrepreneurs to start small and medium-sized enterprises and to achieve an average at European Union level. These business incubators are different from these, because there we are just getting entrepreneurs of the future, who have a good idea from the beginning and nothing more. That is why we are helping them in the incubator, as the colleague already mentioned, the business incubator center is the first pilot project and we will make the best and biggest in Serbia, I think of Leskovac, because we have already developed an idea and we have a large number of users. The point is to enable such a man to grow up quickly, so he doesn't have to be in a period of incubation to be not five, he doesn't have to be three, not even most of the incubators of quality entrepreneurs come out after the first year and go to an industrial park or technology park. So we have a networked institution and we have a network that allows us what we need to make of our economy. I'm sorry, it's been 20 minutes. I think I made it clear that all of these laws will not be supported, but we will pray that they come as soon as possible, even the ones about industrial parks. Therefore, my parliamentary group and especially part of New Serbia, we will vote with both hands for such a law, but during its implementation and we will criticise wherever there is a need.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23473	Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, vice-president of the SPS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23474	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow MPs, first of all, and first of all, I would like to express my regret that the debate on such an important law will certainly remain in the shadow of this campaign that is being led around the government and the adoption of the budget, as it is seen by the writing of the media. Today you can see, and tomorrow you will see, unfortunately the law will not be devoted to as much space as the law deserves. I think it is the obligation of us, the MPs who are participating in the debate today, to try to explain to the citizens of Serbia the importance of passing such a law. Namely, we are at the beginning of the 21st century. Serbia if it wants to be a developed country, if we want a higher standard of living, if we want to live better, then we need to understand the need to adopt one of these laws, which creates a normative framework to involve science and technology in economic development so that Serbia does not lag behind, to engage in world flows and to try to overcome these ugly things that have been happening to us in the last decade of the 20th century, when we have been exposed to sanctions from the international community and have been bombed, because it has all had negative consequences for our overall social development, and especially for the lives of citizens. It is therefore important that we MPs who are participating in this debate today tell about this law as much as possible and that citizens understand that the adoption of this law is a good assumption that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we live better. Starting with the experiences of other countries, what they have already achieved, one comparative review can be made to show that the normative framework is only one side, let me say, of development and that there is a need within what is called the environment and that there is a good organization. But there needs to be an extremely good material background. Some documents that I was able to read in the preparation of this law say that, for example, this industrial boom that the countries of the Far East achieved at the end of the last century and at the beginning of this, is not only based on material investment that is undeniable, in the development of science and technology, but also in the strategic definition of being a country that defines, decides on the importance of development projects and of course the state knows what it needs when technology is transferred. You have different types of research, but the state should have its own strategy and it is good that our state of Serbia needs and has a strategy for scientific and technological development, but it is bad that we as a state do not have our own development strategy. It's bad and it has to be replaced absolutely. In the 21st century, this beginning must have marked the development of science. I won't talk about these political processes and geopolitical processes, but it's undeniable that the new civilization formed at the beginning of the 21st century is based on electronics, robotics, artificial intelligence, and that the power of this transformation is in science, in new technologies, in culture, in education, etc. I'm saying this to understand the beginning of the 21st century and the need to engage us as quickly as possible in these integration processes. We in Serbia have a special interest in investing in science and that people who do science have a good position, that they are materially secure, because their quality of work depends on how we all live tomorrow. Today, at the beginning of the 21st century, past political divisions, the world is divided into innovative and imitative societies, those who create and those who accept what has already been done, who only imitate, if they can say so, because those societies that do not create and do not invest in science and technology and who do not know what they want with themselves, they objectively become a colony. You know, in the colony, you can't live well. When we talk about these four laws, and I'm going to say a little more about the law on scientific research, given that he is carrying this united debate, no offense to other laws, innovative action is a significant law, but not in relation to scientific research. We think it's a good thing this law is passed. I would like to remind you that the previous law was passed 12 years ago and the then Law on Scientific Action, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 1993, was, by concept and adopted solutions, a quality and, in essence, one of the good laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. But time goes by and it has its own currents. It is logical that in 2005, we now adopt a new law, if I may figuratively say, a new law for the beginning of the 21st century, for Serbia's new scientific and economic development. As far as the bill itself is concerned, the SPS parliamentary group considers it to be of quality, both by concept and by content, and by structure, that it is systematic, that the proposed solutions are of quality. He's legally clean and doesn't cause doubt or any possible different interpretations. In our opinion, it's a good law. The point is and it must be understood, Serbia needs such a law. I said, not only because of the need to engage in world, scientific and economic flows, but also because of the need for faster development, because unfortunately our political situation has affected our economic reality. We, and this is important, among other things, the adoption of this law, remember having been sanctioned by the UN in 1992, May 31st, which lasted several years, and they had their own negative fact and by science, however much the SPS government and other parties that helped to correct it. However, the negative effects existed. In 1999, we also had an aggression of NATO forces. All of this had major negative consequences for the economy and the people. For example, I will mention that in 1999 a significant part of the civil property was destroyed or partially destroyed. In the economy, for example, the most damage suffered by the industry, in which the installed capacity was completely destroyed and severely damaged. I want people to understand that I am not saying this because of aggression, but to know that this is one of the reasons that Serbia, to say, is both in the scientific and economic state in which it is, and that we know who helped us to be where we are. Because we speak very uncritically of our past, unfortunately blinded by the political views we represent, so we don't want to admit some notorious things in 2005. Not today and not here from the MPs present, but the political situation in Serbia is such that sometimes, wanting to score politically, certain political parties go to the ground floor and forget to tell citizens what happened in the 1990s and related to NATO aggression. In 1999, it was also destroyed by large parts and infrastructure, and traffic, and electricity, and telecommunications. The total damage - and it is the result of not only NATO aggression but also international sanctions, because we had previously been sanctioned and then partially suspended, then renewed, aggression, and additional sanctions were introduced – which was then imposed in Serbia between 1991 and 1999, according to certain figures, over $100 billion. For these reasons, the higher involvement of domestic economy in the global economic system has lagged. Economic growth has slowed and the balance of payments has deteriorated, so that the structure of the economy is characterised by high import dependence, high participation of the primary sector, and all of this is a developmental restriction. In all such unfavourable conditions and limitations, the development of science and its contribution to economic development is not what we would like. Namely, without science, without research, without quality and meaningful development programs and projects, without quality researchers and education systems, without scientific research equipment, laboratories etc. there is neither quantitative nor qualitative change in the development sense, nor improvement for citizens and society. I think there is no development in Serbia if we do not invest in science and research, but even if there is no high rate of economic and social development, because science should speed up both economic and social development. There must be a lot of money in the Republic of Serbia's budget for science and research, more than it seems now. I think it would be good for Mr. Minister to get to know us how much funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget is allocated now for science, so that we can be in a position to make one comparison compared to the years before, especially in relation to this situation since 2000, of course and in relation to the years before, but they cannot be compared objectively, because in the 1990s there were sanctions and aggression. I have an obligation, both party and human, to mention that in 1994-1996, despite the economic situation that existed in Serbia, there was a significant allocation of funding for the needs of science development. I think it was, in such difficult economic conditions, one thing that we can all rise up to, and I think it should be pointed out. I mentioned this not because we have the need to commend my party colleagues or something to say about this period positively, but there is a professional and human obligation to say it, but in the context of these events since 2000, we seem to have had since 2000, since October 5th and the formation of the DOS government, or the Democratic Party, an uncritical approach to accepting everything from abroad, unmistakable greatness. We had another situation that wasn't invested in home science as much as she deserves it. To be honest, it remains unclear to all of us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I suppose also to the public of Serbia, where those huge financial resources that have been given to Serbia through donations, where they have simply lost themselves, as they are huge resources, and science has not seen much of it. In the budget, according to the knowledge I own, the funds were far less than science deserves, and unfortunately we had one situation, so today I was trying to check with a couple of my colleagues, to see that I didn't make a mistake, but how much memory does it serve me, how bad the DOS government's relationship to our home science and people who do science show an example. I don't know if you remember, but in 2002 some scientific projects and papers were sent to a review in Bologna, so some of our respected professors got negative grades from scientists from Italy, and the papers were related to our national history. It seems to me that Professor Rados Ljusic was one of them who received the assessment that his works were nationalist. This is also what I am saying in the context of my relationship with home science and outflows of funds and idolatry in relation to everything that comes from the outside. Members of the SPS and the general SPS are interested in investing as much in science as possible. We simply believe that this is Serbia's need. It is known that developed countries invest very much in science. Our separation of the 1990s, as far as I know, was below one percent of gross national income, and developed countries amounted to about two percent of gross national income, and those most developed over two percent, three, some even more. Otherwise, few countries in the world that have a positive balance in this exchange of technology are known to export more technological knowledge and innovation compared to what they import. Of course, we're not among those lucky people, but we can do a lot to speed up science in our country and make it a big benefit for the country. I think it would be good to hear from Mr. Minister not about the material status of our researchers, but also to hear the structure of the researchers. Why? When I say structure, I don't mean in scientific terms, from the point of view of titles, but where there are most, because world experiences say that researchers have the most in the economy, at universities, and then at institutes. It seems to me that we have a different situation, most of which are in colleges and institutes, and only then in the economy. This structure must change if we want to develop and be in a circle of developed countries. I know that in the 1990s, the research structure was significantly rejuvenated, and that was good. But I think that the state would have to operate on these jobs to determine what priorities are and to move as many people involved in scientific research, if possible, from the institutes and colleges to the economy. I mentioned at the beginning of my presentation the thing that, preparing for today's exposure, I read that the great boom that has been experienced by the East Asian countries is not only about making material resources, but about knowing what they want. For us Members of the SPS, this is absolutely something to support and we will vote for the adoption of the law on scientific action and these other laws. We think it's of great importance to Serbia. After all, believe it or not, I have watched our programming and many of the things that stand in the light of this law is something that we socialists absolutely support, because in reason it usually writes things that are the work of the law and are of general importance. We think that this law should also be passed for the reason that we should keep up with the world in all the research, of course, and fundamentally, and thus contribute to our country's independence, because we need to understand all the currents in both ourselves and the world, so that we know what we want with ourselves, so that we can form our values, so that we don't uncritically accept the values of others. We need to invest in our science, because our people deserve it. Siasset is an example from the past that shows that generations live on our premises or are born that, with a good system of education, they know and can create. Certainly, at least those formal-legal matters related to some scientific titles, achievements or innovation, it seems to me that, in relation to the number of inhabitants of Serbia or earlier, the SRJ, and even the great Yugoslavia, is one of the countries that has achieved very good results in terms of size. I'd like to finally say two or three words about only two laws, about the law on innovation activity, unfortunately, I won't speak, but at first I said that I think he's in a different plan than the law on scientific research. I would just like to say two words about the proposal for a law on the Serbian encyclopedia and on the dictionary SANU. I think it's very good that the Assembly will adopt this bill on the Serb encyclopedia. I'm sorry, if I understand the minister correctly, that we're on the tail, among the countries in the world that don't have their own national encyclopedia. It's a good time to say that we break that tradition badly and take a step forward. I would like to hear from the minister, not questioning our relationship with the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts bill, why it is called the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, when in law, members who refer to it and explain it will be a dictionary of modern Serbian literary and folk language. What are these reasons to define him as a dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts? I know the maker will be the Institute of Serbian Language of the Academy of Science and Arts, publisher of the Academy, but by the content of one of the names, I think it would be good for the minister to explain it. If these are reasons, I can respect it, the national and religious structure of the state of Serbia, and the need to find a measure within that aspect, and I respect that, but this name is a bit raving, and I do not question the content of what is said. In any case, the SRS parliamentary group will support these bill proposals, they will vote for their adoption, because we consider it extremely important laws, especially the law on scientific research. I say once again, I'm sorry that such a significant law will remain in the shadows, believe me, we'll be in a position to discuss some amendments tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the media won't devote as much space as the law deserves. But unfortunately, it is Serbia, too, but Serbia, which we all need to fight together. Why do I say we have to fight, so that the right values will finally come to the place they deserve, because only in that case can we say that Serbia will be better. No matter how hard we individually try, we need to establish some values. These laws are something that is a step in that direction and for these reasons we support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23475	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for written application, with a number of MPs, submitted by the SRS, DSS, G17 plus and the SPS. I give my word to Parliamentarian Dragan Jovanovic, and let MP Zoran Masic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23476	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin here where Dr. Zarko Obradovic finished his presentation, which is that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group assesses the proposals of these laws as high-quality and we are ready to support them when they are adopted. However, I would also start with one sentence that the minister made in his opening statement, which is that these laws represent a good legal framework and an ambience or an ambience framework. I agree, without distinction, that this legal framework is quite good, even I think the essential framework is good, but as far as the environment is concerned, I would be free to point out a few moments in this presentation that I consider not particularly suitable for the qualification of the ambience as good. First of all, I want to say that the fundamental strategy of scientific research should be its purpose, its work on projects of national importance, which the state is running to ensure economic and social development, as well as scientific and technological independence of the state. I'll try more to speak from one specific position, or from the position of the other side, and that's a research partner, which is actually an economy. I'll try more from that aspect to look at this problem. In the overall scientific and research work, we consider it fundamental, as applied and as developmental research, and I think that advocates should be focused on the faster transfer of knowledge from science to economy. In this sense, the law gives a fundamentally good framework that the establishment of a future national council can be treated as an encouraging institution, which would take care of what I've just said. Also, the SPS, and in its programme definition, sees it as an important priority, in order to preserve and strengthen, I repeat, technological and scientific independence and independence of the entire state, to preserve and develop scientific research potential through various forms of transformation of scientific research institutions. In doing so, we think about institutions that are state-owned, we mean creating mixed ownership of the institute and we also think about creating conditions for a smooth passage of private capital. But there's one little note I want to make. The privatisation of the institute, I'm talking about state-owned institutes, must be done in a careful manner. It's one of the elements of the ambience I'm talking about. If we were to choose this neoliberal concept in this privatisation, which the previous government affirmed, then we would be in a great deal of trouble. Then we could theoretically come into a situation where private capital is investing in institutions of state, quality institutes, to bring them down in every way, and that the ultimate effect is their closure, which would put the competition away and open the market for the penetration of some other scientific research institutions, most likely outside our country. In that sense, I think the Ministry, after the adoption of this law, must make a lot of effort to create these conditions for the implementation of everything we talk about and what we hope to adopt. We also estimate that a permanent task should be to strengthen links between colleges, institutes and businesses. That's the point I'm potentialing on. The possibility of laboratory experimental work should be potentiated, both for students and teachers, for co-workers, given that a nuclear without profession is difficult to do, and even more so is the opposite. It must insist on a binding direct strategy between economy and science. When I say binding, I don't think that commitment should be achieved by some state-administrative measures. This is neither possible nor such an approach would be satisfactory, but I think that encouraging measures towards scientific research can create conditions for the economy, regardless of its ownership status, to feel this interest in co-operation with scientific research institutions and that this co-operation can simply be achieved in a spontaneous way, as an interesting phenomenon. In that sense, I mean, and there's already been a speech, and it seems to me that whatever problem we're talking about, they're always young in the first place, and how to stimulate young people, and how to keep young people from leaving our country, they don't leave our economy, they don't leave our work. Of course, it is no problem to say now that we feel that there is a need to bring favourable conditions for the scholarship of good students, good students, especially for the scholarship and for the creation of favourable conditions for doctoral studies and for scientific work. Of course, it's no problem for us to say here that we think that we need to make sure that young scientists and artists are solving their housing issues, which is a very big problem in this country today, but all of this when we say it is a point and the problem isn't solved. I'll give you an example from the economy, and when I give you examples, I usually limit myself to those segments where the state owns it, because I think the state needs the first implementation of its laws to do exactly where it has the dominant influence. When we adopted the budget and discussed the budget we spoke with the Ministry of Finance and then we told them that the situation of blockades or the freezing of personal incomes in public enterprises is very detimulative in this very sense in the position of young experts leaving public enterprises, they go to other companies. I'm talking about young people who have achieved between five and ten years of internships, who speak well foreign language, who rule information technologies and who work for a salary that is extremely insufficient for creation and personal, let alone professional careers. The problem is, this piece isn't ready to advertise loudly. The one where he doesn't strike. We were told by the ministry that they are sufficient to indicate that there are no strikes. This isn't a strike, he's leaving, he's looking for other firms, other firms are looking for them, it's a quality, schooled, ready-to-go career, and there's no problem finding better employment, and that's exactly what's happening, and that's something I'm telling you firsthand. So the government has to do a lot more, because by keeping the salary under control, we regulate macroeconomic stability, probably that's how it is, but it's also likely that we'll achieve macroeconomic stability, but we won't have young personnel. We need to put one thing on the scale, put the other one on, so let's see what the long-term interest of the country and what we need to worry about more. I want to say that we expect a lot of the future strategy to be implemented. I don't expect the law to solve these questions I'm talking about. He's creating frameworks, it's a strategy that needs to bring us a little bit closer to what we want in the first year, and what in the fifth or tenth year of its application. That's where I have to underline something that's also said here. We have one experience with making an important strategy as well. It was an energy development strategy by 2015, which came to this House in an alternative form, variant A and variant B. Why? Because we still don't have a general strategy for economic development, and that strategy has to be based on everyone else, and this one, I see, without a reserve, we're assessing, is one of the most important things that can be brought to this society. I seem to have seen in the law that a year's deadline for the adoption of this strategy, I don't know if we should appeal from here to the government or to whom this general development strategy of this country is finally being adopted, and that everyone is being separatized, and even this important thing that we're talking about today, can lean on it, and I think that would give extra quality to every law we're talking about. This part to conclude by saying once again that I consider the bill to be good, however, it is necessary for the state to support the continued development and implementation of this law in the domain of scientific research. When we talk about the setting, I want to say one more thing and support one example that might be relatively small, but I think it's picturesque. We know that our segment of scientific research has gone through difficult times. The period of sanctions, economic blockades, the interruption of technology transfer, information, we had one isolated situation where all segments of society had problems, perhaps the most that we're talking about today. However, during this period it should be said that our scientific research institutions have greatly helped the domestic economy overcome some of its problems initiated by what I said. I'm going to say that again on the case of one state system, it's energy, it's electricity, and as embarrassing as it may be for everyone to talk about it, I'm going to remind you of two moments. The first moment, that the system worked continuously during the 1990s to 2000s, with all the difficulties and problems it had. I'll remind you that because of the inability to transfer foreign technologies, which is a system used by foreign technologies and foreign equipment, we've been forced to connect with our "domestic minds" or scientific research institutions here in the country. It is fair to say that these institutions have largely replaced what we lacked from the original technology centres, i.e. the equipment suppliers, who have been prevented from communicating with us very often because of the sanctions introduced. Another characteristic example, you probably all remember that during the experimental NATO action on our systems the famous high-conductive bombs were dropped and you probably remember that American energy experts estimated that this country would be about three months in the dark, because it was some period in which they appreciated that we were able to eliminate the consequences of such actions. For the night, with the proper institutes, we've determined what matter it is, what are the characteristics of the fibers that were thrown as spiders on our plants, and we've defined the ways in which they were removed. Instead of three months, as planned, we removed this in the first time in three days, and in the next to seven days it took a return to the initial state. It should not interfere with the mind that we are in an emergency situation, far from calling it that time, far away from here affirming it as God knows how quality, it did not happen again, however, should not be disturbed with the mind that domestic scientific research activity then also forcedly showed extraordinary results in removing what was then imposed on us. Is it so today if it isn't today why it isn't. I'm going back to the Ambience story. We have a bit of an irrational situation today. In these five years in the country, or in its systems, an extremely large amount of financial resources has entered into my understanding. That must be over a billion euros. It would be good to review the documentation and see how many of these hundreds of millions or over a billion euros were placed in our scientific research institutions, and how much funds were recovered from where they actually came from. Today we have a problem very often to engage domestic institutions, institutes and universities. It's dominating sometimes to think that all of this needs to be bought out there and what we have to do with research when everything's about being investigated, and besides, there are Americans who are doing it very nicely, so we're going to ask them, and then our institutions might as well shut it down. Whether it's called an import lobby or otherwise, it's not the subject of today's conversation. Someone said it was a non-critical attitude to science. I think it's a little bit to say - a noncritical relationship. Secondly, when we talk about ambience, it would be good to look into the archives of the Public Procurement Administration, and see how much demand there is and how much demand it is granted to deal with science and research domains, I'm talking about studies, projects, how much permission to make direct deals with foreign partners. So, how created the situation is that our domestic scientific institutions are unable to even enter an open-source competition, as the Public Procurement Act actually states. On a few small examples, I was trying to say that this ambience isn't so great. I know that the Minister of Science is neither powerful nor the idea of him handling all this. I just think that from the point of view of the entire government, these issues need to be considered. In objective terms, we today have scientific institutions ready for major projects. I've heard the opposite opinions here, which may have little basis, but I think we still have potential. I'm talking about energy, and we've had to make a lot of efforts to get the Michael Pupin Institute, which has an extremely elaborate technology, which is a well-developed system of introducing digital technologies on energy plant management systems, which are completely opposed to "Symensov" that I don't order or advertise companies, and we've had a lot of problems with bringing the Pupin into place and installing it on our plants. Probably shouldn't even mention that his job is more than twice as cheap, but it's the same one that some foreign company did to us. The effects have been shown. I can't hear right, I'm not getting into motives, I'm just trying to define a phenomenon. In that sense, Mr. Minister, further implementation efforts should be made. I completely agree with the predecessor who said the most important job is the implementation of this law. It is really good, really offers a great framework, but this implementation must be carried out more carefully from all aspects, personnel policies, from the aspect of respect for the norms and documents that the state itself brings, etc. A few more words about innovation work. No need, I think the Minister in the opening statement quite correctly explained what this is about, and we understand that this is the first time that the law regulates such an important area. We understand that this work, together with scientific research, is a driving force in the overall technological development of every country, including ours, and that this is a basic condition for keeping pace in this technological race. However, what is also dominant is the creation of conditions for the implementation of the law. I think and we'll probably agree that there's always been a gap between science and innovation creation, on the one hand, and the need for economy and response to the economy on the other hand. The reasons for this can also be found in systemic reasons. We see, for the first time we've passed a law like this, we've never had one before. I am optimistic that this law will help to improve this state of affairs. However, there are other elements. I'm going to take another minute to say example: 15 years, or 20 or 25 years, it doesn't matter, I'm going back to the energy domain and I'm going back to the state sector again, we have an extremely developed innovative or innovative, whatever we want to call it, the process in that sector, where we've achieved the extremely observed results. Here I agree with the predecessor who said that these are not the results of the scientific institutions but of the employees there, but that does not diminish their importance. That's why people were getting recognitions at international innovators' assemblies. In the then federal patent office, people protected their technical solutions and converted them into intellectual property, and based on the normative acts, they exercised some compensation rights, which are symbolic of total savings. What happened? I'm going back to the environment. It happened that after 2001 or after 2000, when, I don't know how many times this was said here, the principle of crisis headquarters was brought there, brought dominantly from the Democratic Party, not the directors of factories and plants, but political commissioners. You know what happened? What happened was that it was said -- no, no, no more money for innovation and innovators, because it's a relic of the past time. It's a relic of the old regime, we're a new society, we're new people, we're not going to do it. Mr. Minister, that's the situation day and day. I don't mind that the personnel picture is held at that level and, in the end, you as the man who runs an extremely important resort in this government may not realize how much of the problem it is in this environment that we're talking about, but I assume that in the implementation of these laws a little account will be taken. They remind me I have to finish, because I'm running out of time. In the end, I'm just going to say that what we said at the beginning, that this is a work that has a very high impact on the country's technological and technical independence and independence, before anyone smiles at that issue, I'm going back to something that the predecessor, the G17 lady plus said, states and developed countries, and more and more and more undeveloped countries, stand out to 3% of the social product for this area, so they probably think that's the case. Finally, I would like to say that our parliamentary group will support the adoption of these laws with, once again, that in the future implementation it is necessary to make a significant effort to implement these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23477	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. You also left Mr. Baralic for almost 2.5 minutes. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. Let the Messengers of the people prepare themselves, Milojub Albianic, and Zoran Krasic. At the same time, let me officially inform you, under Article 85. Rules of Procedure, today we will only work until the principle debate is concluded on these united points, and tomorrow at 10.00 we will move on to the next principle debate - a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy. At the same time, due to the schedule of your time, the hour's break today will be between 13.30 and 14.30. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23478	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the Honorable Associates of the Ministry of Science, I will proceed to where I stand in relation to my previous debate. What I wanted to talk about above all is institutions carrying out scientific research, which are primarily institutions of national importance, SANU and Matica Serbian. I certainly greatly appreciate the fact that the Duke Academy of Sciences has not been put here. I don't think he should be here. It is these two institutions that should be institutions of national importance in the Republic of Serbia. As for the institute, as an institution that is the bearer of scientific research, you provide the possibility for these institutes to be registered as institutions, and so on - that the founders be the Republic, an autonomous province or local self-government. We of the SRS are in favour of all institutions that are being held as state, which use state-owned funds, and the founder should be the Republic of Serbia. We really don't see the need to so-called. The state institutes set up the AP, especially local self-government, don't I know, first of all, where it would provide the budget and the necessary funds for the establishment of a research and development institute, it doesn't have to be a scientific institute, but a research and development institute, which would be the need and what means it would take to establish such an institute by local self-government. We certainly support that the Institute can also be established as a business company, meaning that it can dispose of funds under the Business Society Act, which essentially implies that it is a business or private one, and on that side is fine. We've made one amendment and on a proposal like this, because we just think it'll be appreciated, that the institutes that have the resources of state property should be the founder of the Republic, so to speak, so to speak. Republic institutes. Furthermore, the categorization of the institute has been carried out, which is also good, just to make a difference in the forms of research, so as to define the scientific institutes, whose weight of activity are so-called. Basic research and applied research and research-development institute, again whose most significant work has been applied and development research. As far as scientific institutes are concerned, the existing law has strengthened the criteria. Under the existing law, in order for the institution to be established and registered as a scientific institute, there must be a minimum of 15 researchers in a permanent working relationship, ten dr. sciences and five magistrates or with a higher scientific calling. According to the proposal of this law, the scientific institute must have a minimum of 20 researchers, and ten of them doctors of science, and ten researchers of associates or with a higher. The scientific calling. We, as an SRS parliamentary group, mean these sharpened criteria and we have even proposed one amendment where we think that the scientific institute, in order to register, of these ten doctors, must have three, at least three senior scientific associates, so persons with the calling of a senior scientific associate, because we think that someone who prefers to be a scientific institute and to participate in these basic and applied research must have competent researchers. We went to the level of scientific advisor, thinking it might be too strict, but we think that the minimum of three or more scientific associates can be accepted, so that any more serious research facility, which has existed for at least 15 or 20 years, could choose or have three doctors of science with the calling of a senior scientific associate. Also, as far as research and development institutes are concerned, we support the established criteria that such an institution must have a minimum of 12 researchers in competent official titles for the field it deals with, and of which seven doctors of science and five researchers of fellow scientists or doctors of science. Here we as a parliamentary group have proposed an amendment that implies that just like this research and development institutes, of these minimum seven doctors of science, at least one of them must have more scientific associates. It means that it is some criterion for meeting the conditions, normally, in addition to meeting the conditions of accreditation and research programme and everything defined by certain members of this bill. What I also think is good, which is defined by this law, is the use and use of the name of the institute. I think we had this great color, even the abuse of the name of the scientific institute, because some simply baptized themselves, although they may have one or two doctors of science, even somewhere even so, so it's important by law to protect the name of the scientific institute and that that name can only be used by those who meet the legal requirements. It is also good that the participation of institutes in higher education is defined, but I must express from this place regret, given that I participated in the debate on the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, where there was no understanding at that time by the Minister of Higher Education, that in one better and fairer way the relationship and participation of scientific researchers from the Institute in the educational process. This law proposes the equivalence of scientific and teaching titles and also gives the opportunity to participate in the researcher's educational process with scientific titles. The only thing that is at the same time is my proposal to the Ministry of Science, which is to make a proposal to amend the Law on Higher Education, that the specifics that defined there are the participation of research workers in the educational process, and that there is only regulated that researchers from scientific institutes can participate in graduate, academic studies, master studies, and doctoral studies, and that they can't actually be participants in basic studies. I don't think that's right, because some researchers in some institutes are top experts in their field, and at least from that area in the part of the educational process, I think they can take a measure and parity part of the course. So I ask you, if possible in the next period, to comply with the Ministry of Education and to make a proposal to amend the law in that sense. Unfortunately, in the process of passing the law, the minister had no understanding of our proposals that we just made in front of the SRS parliamentary group. I think she's well regulated by this law privatizing the institute. I think it is important that it is said that institutions of state interest cannot be changed ownership above 51%, as well as all other state institutes in the privatisation process today will go according to the government's programme and by a special decision of the Government, which I think is good and will prevent symmetry in this business or various interferences and manipulations, as unfortunately in the neighbouring countries are done precisely in the transition process, where many quality institutes are simply shut down or privatised and their intentions have been changed. Here, the Ministry has well designed the policy of transforming today's state institutes, which means that this privatisation will go according to a special programme and according to the government's decision, and it is particularly important that those institutes that are, I say, of national importance cannot essentially be privatised above 50% of their value. As far as the institute's organs are concerned, one of the most important is the scientific larger which is the expert body. One solution is given here, unlike the existing law, where the existing law states that the scientific institute must have a scientific council with 15 members, and here a minimum number of scientific council members is determined over seven, and at the same time it is not defined in which scientific title there should be those seven members of the scientific council, a minimum number of seven is given. This is where I want to make my remarks. I think it should have been determined that the scientific council in the scientific institutes has a larger number of members, perhaps to retain an existing number that was in the existing law, and that a minimum of seven or eight members of that scientific council should be with the highest scientific calling, and that is the scientific advisor. True, here in Article 58, it is possible that in case the scientific council does not have enough scientific research workers to include researchers from other scientific institutes in the process of establishing a proposal for scientific calling. There is no possibility here, which was under the existing law, that persons with teaching titles could be included, because so far in the scientific council of some institutes could be selected and included primarily extraordinary and regular professors from the university. With a solution like this, you are preventing such an opportunity here, but only involving only scientific researchers from the institute, and I don't think that's good, because that's how you disqualify people with the teaching titles of higher education institutions that they can be members of scientific councils of scientific institutes. As far as I know, it is not an amendment here that has been intervened, my proposal may be on the Committee to consider such a possibility and that the Committee, or you as legislators, if you consider this suggestion to be appropriate, to make a correction here in Article 58. What is new in the proposal in relation to the existing law is the establishment of a center of excellence, with us giving a different formulation in front of the parliamentary group. Proposer Dr Blazic felt that what you defined as the center of excellence should be the center of exceptional values. The bottom line is that such centres can be formed by institutes or higher education institutions, whose results of scientific research work have been assessed as top-notch and have international recognitions. I think it's a good thing, only what's my point and what's not defined here, it's likely that some sublaw or act of the National Council will be closer to determining what will be the criteria for setting the centre, i.e.. meeting the conditions of the center of excellence or, if accepted, our proposal - center of exceptional values. My suggestion is to take this into account and not to have certain subjectivity, but to have such a qualification deserve only really extremely valuable scientific research institutions that have achieved top-notch results. It is good to establish keeping records of scientific research institutions registers and keeping records of scientific research workers' registers. These records, first of all research workers, I think they must be with clearly defined competence indices, with the renewal of each year and each year the Ministry receives information which the researcher's index of competence in a particular institution has achieved. The price of engagement and participation of such researchers in the projects is accurate, i.e. That you in your databases have information about it and that there can't be manipulation. We know that there was manipulation, that some researchers were placed with some competence indices that were objectively unfulfilled. The elections in research titles and equivalence of research titles are similarly regulated as under the existing law. So, the initiation of the procedure goes from a candidate or from a research institution to a scientific council, it's also prescribed exactly what time it's due to do so. It is okay, just so that it would not happen that some candidates wait half or a year for elections to be held in scientific calling, but it is clearly prescribed in what time the members of the Commission, appointed by the Scientific Council, should write a report, how long it takes for this referendum to come to the public's attention and when it is necessary to decide on the fulfilment of the conditions for choice in scientific calling to be scientificly greater. What I only want to make a point of, is in Article 40, where it defines what everything a research associate needs to meet. This is Article 70(4), where it says that calling an research associate can acquire a person who has enrolled in doctoral or doctoral academic studies and who has completed at the previous level of the study with a total average score of at least eight, and is involved in scientific research. It's been dropped here that the research associate is a magistrate. I think that was supposed to stand, because so far it was a basic criterion when someone was elected as a research associate to have called a magistrate, completed master's degree and defended master's work. It's been dropped here. Yes, according to the new Law on the University, completed academic graduate studies, but I think for those who acquire scientific titles it should be said that the basis of the fulfillment is the calling of a master. What I still want to point to is to fund scientific research. So far, it's mostly project funding, so-called. project financing, and it remains as the most significant form of funding. There is even the possibility of funding and auxiliary staff, as well as the material costs of ongoing investment maintenance and maintenance of scientific research infrastructure. However, if the project funding will be excluded, so-called financing will be excluded. directorial costs, then what you're proposing as funding the salary of the auxiliary staff is not going to help the institutes. I think it's going to put them in a worse position, and that's why I'm asking you to take care of it. Because one-fifth of the salary of the auxiliary staff in relation to the total number of researchers, if that is a minimum of 20, that is four workers as auxiliary staff, where both technical associates and cleaning women are and everything else, and I think that there is very little and simply there will be no such funds of any importance, unless funding through projects is financed, in addition to direct material costs, and part of the overhead costs that involved funding of technical staff. Certainly, what I still want, and they remind me of the time-share, related to funding, is my assessment of the total funds that have been allocated to scientific research this year and previous years in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't think this government, like the previous government, has a good attitude towards scientific research. The funds allocated to the budget this year are at a level of four billion 600 million, and total at the ministry level, along with the salaries of those who work there, that's 5 billion and 600 million. I think that's an insufficient amount. You can check it out, I was looking at the draft budget – 4,605,000, it's an insufficient amount of funding for projects, for innovation and for the acquisition of new scientific research equipment, for the education of young people in science. I ask that this be taken into account, especially in the case of budget rebalances, where it is regularly removed from the Ministry's items, to fight that these funds are at least not diminished, and certainly respecting the proposals of other colleagues, this state should significantly increase resources to single out for scientific research, not at a level of 0.26% of gross national income. Now that they're warning me, I'm going to finish my presentation, they're going to continue my colleagues on this, but I think I'm the essence of the things I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23479	Thank you, Mr. Machine. The People's Messenger Miloljub Albianic has the word, then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic, and then the People's Messenger prof. Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23480	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since for the united points of the agenda, colleague Milka Silaev and she spoke of all the laws, I wanted to be a speaker and to look back at one of the proposed laws, which is the law on the Serbian encyclopedia. Before I go to the discussion on the legal proposal itself, I would like, first of all, to thank Mr. President of the Assembly, Markovic, Mr. Minister Aleksandr Popovic and Prof. Dr. Radoša Lusic, in fact, they are part of this project, because the idea of their mutual conversation and came from this very important project for our country. What does the Serbian encyclopedia mean to us? For us and our country, the Serb encyclopedia means the same thing as the British for Great Britain, the Russian Encyclopedia for Russia, the French Encyclopedia for France, and in this we are no different, except that there is no Serb encyclopedia in our country yet. For us, it means a cultural race and a core of a future Serbian pattern. Why do I tell the future? Because it will contain the synthesis of the entire creation of our people and will actually be presented to the Serbian national being. What's all this? As well as national dedication, and art, and cultural monuments, monuments of culture, and architecture, and the overall creation of our people, and churches, and monasteries, but also the space in which we have lived and lived; historical periods through which we have been through and through as a people, as well as processes that have affected the integration of the Serbian people, as well as processes that have affected disintegration. It will all be found in the future Serbian encyclopedia. The encyclopaedia will also include the names of Serbs, achievements, concepts within our country and other countries, as well as the names and concepts of all national minorities within our country and people in our neighbouring countries, because this space is not for itself. We also had relations with our neighbors, who affected us. You have to let me mention some names after all. You know today that we are celebrating, within all schools in Serbia, the school glory of St. Sava. How can you not mention the Holy Sava for enlightenment? How can we not mention Jovan Cvijic, the philosophy of Bran Petronijevic, within the science of Milutin Milanković, Nikola Tesla, Mihajla Pupin, in the literature of so many pearls of Serbian literature, we had, Crnjanski, Selimović, Andrić, Dučić, Nastazijevic, Dis and how much, and how much is impossible to mention, historian Stojan Novakovic, and how can I not mention to Vladika Nikola Velimirovic, Vuk Karadzic, Negosa - and how much should I list? That's what the future Serb encyclopedia is for, to get all the wealth of our people and the state inside. But I am a mathematician and it is my duty to mention mathematicians, such as Mihajlo Petrovic Alas, Jovan Karamat, Đuro Kurepa, and I wonder if our people in Serbia know that, for example, in today's book and textbook literature for high school, and university literature in Zagreb Svetozar Kurepa. So all this wealth will be found in the Serb encyclopedia. What precedes the Serbian encyclopedia? I cannot say that Jovan Skerlic and Slobodan Jovanovic launched a very significant Serbian literary messenger between the two wars. He is, in fact, advocating what will be found in the Serb encyclopedia. Is it possible we're among the rare countries in the world and we don't have an encyclopedia? What else can it serve as part of the material? We had Stanoje Stanojevic was responsible for the National Encyclopedia, but it was Serbian, Croatian and Slovenian, written in four volumes. There is also the Encyclopaedia of Yugoslavia, published in Zagreb. There is also a small enlightened encyclopaedia, quite ideological character. Also, I have to say that Serbia does not have a lexicographic service, and Croatia has something like that. In our country, the Institute for Publishing textbooks has opened a Lexicographic Department, currently working on the school encyclopedia and a small Serb encyclopedia. It is the basis or beginning to pass a new law tomorrow and create a Serbian lexicographic institute. The creation of a Serbian encyclopedia will last at least ten years. The executive publisher is the Institute for textbooks and teaching tools, he will represent a service and support for this project to be realised, and the editorial board consists of members of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts and Matica of Serbia. As important as it is, the president of the editorial board is important. Why? Because we need to make sure that it is a person who will continuously monitor the implementation of the whole project, and it will take more than ten years. It should be pointed out that the first one is expected in 2007, it is difficult to expect in 2006 because in that year an alphabet, i.e. All the specifics that will enter the encyclopedia. The funds are set aside by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As part of this, a special sub-account and purpose for the Serb encyclopedia. I needed to discuss this specifically, because G17 plus will vote for a set of laws, but this is very important for our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23481	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. To interpret the exact data that you have presented, what is crucial, two MPs of the National Assembly are standing at the beginning. The fact that they are now in various functions, but the key thing is that they were MPs of the National Assembly at the time of the agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23482	Well, it's hard after this speech from G17 plus, these are some dissonant tones, you're not on the EU's trail. Anyway, I'm going to start first from this law that's under regular number four -- a bill on the dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. You planned 10 million dinars for this investment in 2006. I don't think it's necessary for me to say in this speech that something really is necessary. There's a need, but I'd just draw your attention to whether you're late or not in your ideological positions. You from the DSS, while your MP at the Federal Assembly was Mrs. Colic, she was a minister briefly, so she left, she begged us to support some initiative to protect the Cyrillic. Of course, we have given support, we insist on protecting Cyrillic, so if you remember that law on economic registers, we insisted that everything be a Cyrillic letter in Serbia. Come through, step outside the building, you'll hardly find anything on our letter. You'll find it in, and I wouldn't even be able to say it in a Latin letter, but in a foreign letter and a foreign language. It's an "in." I need to draw your attention to the fact that all of this you're planning under points 3 and 4, you're late, because the organized campaign of falsifying our history and ours has begun, and you from the government didn't want to get involved, you don't have the courage, you don't have the courage. You don't want to object to the people who give you money, you didn't want to get involved in demasting that counterfeit that's happening abroad against this people, not the authorities, but the people. If you'd read the verdicts, the indictments and the craftsmanship of the UN tribunal's experts, you'd be amazed if you'd read and learn something new, which no one would have thought of, and it was written about the history of this people. That's where you made the mistake. This is where it became fashion internet. Anyone who knows about English, so maybe even with that Spanish or Mexican accent, like Vuk Draskovic is in, and whoever uses our old Serbian archaic expressions for some, and for some of the normal ones, which we all understand, demonstrates primitiveism. I doubt these sincere intentions. I have to tell you, I doubt there's any new forgeries. I'm not guaranteed by these institutes either. This country has not protected the Academy of Science and Arts, and it has been attacked by NGOs, DS and the media. The government has neither protected the Serbian Orthodox Church from theologians, philosophers from the Shimanovac, Mirko Djordjevic, nor others who orchestrately attack the beings of this people. This government didn't protect you. As you advertise, you returned the alleged symbols and Albianic gave a poetic speech here, and all kinds of stuff, so that the Serbian woman should be Balkanic, etc. These are all appropriate EPP messages, because you need to provide as much political unity and support as possible for your projects, so you have devalued some academics, putting them into membership, some advice on fighting corruption, as if they are just as interested in these things, while at the same time the Academy of Science and Arts is stagnating. We won't cause you any trouble with this, we need it to save ourselves from counterfeits, to finally get our people to know about ours, and Vladimir Corović, and Laza Kostic and all the people who are important to this people, but above all significant as adversaries to make this people stand on their feet, to have his cultural tradition come to the place where they need to be. First of all, I think of a place in the souls of these people here, and what someone from abroad is going to say, don't pay too much attention, they're going to change their attitude in no time. Under this central law of yours on scientific and research activity, you see, I can't say for you ministers, but I can say for Labus, even some others who were still in politics, who in 1993 were in some way involved in politics and were in the Federal Assembly, and at the federal level one regulation was introduced, similar content, but when the federal budget was passed, because we were then doing some normal consolidated public spending balances, and not these pranks of Dinkic's, like here in the Assembly, always two scientists stood out in the discussion: one is called scientist Labus, and another also called scientist Dragan Domazet. He was before you a minister in this government, he'll be remembered, we'll talk about it on the subject of the amendment when it comes to this law on scientific research, what all these Fulbright scholarships do when they come from Singapore on a mission to be ministers and how they fit into that theory by your Minister Parivodic -- it's only the state that has the atomic bomb. That's what he said here and stayed alive. The two were known for always criticising the federal government because never when determining, adopting budgets, funding for science and education were singled out in that percentage that represents some standard in Western Europe. If memory serves, they talked about 0.3% of gross social product, that it should be set aside every year as a standard for the development of science and education. Of course, at the time of armed conflicts, riots, blockades, these percentages, the participation of separation for science and education in the gross social product, were zero coma one and a half. We all had an understanding of that. Even that percentage entered federal regulations, back then a federal regulation on scientific research. Today we have a situation where there is no more of this, but that's why your bill can hold something in Article 9, so it says - the strategy determines the required percentage of the allocation for scientific research work from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The percentage of the budget. The budget defines funds in some nominal amount and there is much more appropriate that you said the amounts to be allocated. This should not be interpreted as a percentage of the budget, but as a percentage of the gross social product of a nation. The team before you are here in the initial provisions of this bill, which I will not comment on deliberately, pointed out that scientific action is of general social interest. Next, this is where the government demonstrated one inconsistencies. Probably the National Council can have its own pandan in something similar to a similar name that is related to education, but the way the choice is completely different. I like this way of choosing and we objected here when the National Assembly was to elect members of the National Educational Council. We talked about it because it's a professional thing. Why would they possibly put quasi-democracy into something that's a profession? You can't have democracy and discipline. It can't change democracy that two and two are four. Why would the National Assembly now decide who will be a member of the National Council? That's what the profession needs to say first and whoever's in charge of enforcing the law. Who's in charge of law enforcement? The government, probably according to the criteria of the profession, will come these people, but I see you've shown this inconsistency here, I don't know why, as inconsistencies have shown inconsistencies with the agency. No more agencies, now we're going to the administration. I'm looking to avoid amendments because we'll probably talk a lot more about it. The interesting thing is, this law doesn't have any criminal provisions. Why? Is it possible that the whole law doesn't have any imperial provision that prescribes some behavior, mandatory behavior, so due to its conduct against mandatory behavior, it's probably something that, if anything else, is a violation or an economic offense? It's not there. Furthermore, in privatisation, I would still like to be clear. The central theme of this bill is these bodies and auxiliary bodies, which should somehow direct scientific research in our country. It's always a controversial and open question. I don't want to get into what's a profession, whether we should go on a basic, whether we should develop something else, because I find myself incompetent about these things, I have an opinion of myself, but I get the impression that what we had to say here is, by this law, that's -- who's the one who's carrying the development of science and somehow directs research. It doesn't dictate, it kind of directs. I just heard him say I'm a representative of the economy. There's no more business. Our economy is no longer asking to learn that we need this and that observation. Why? Dinkic and Labus all they have concluded are consulting contracts with abroad, as what credit comes and their scientific knowledge difficult 35% of the contract and you really have a problem with how to preserve our science. The abroad gives better conditions, the budget is surplus, so we have money to get back abroad, but we don't have money for our science. This is the Government paradox and of course all the laws that come are contradictory. One is the label for the public, and the other is the essence. Who's the one who needs to help and direct? Just to remind you of one thing, in that we're not very dear to America when the final year of college ends, the CIA and the military immediately conduct a survey of young people and put them into their drive. The U.S. military budget is scientific and developmental, and then they have these para-state and private institutes, there's known to be a large 10 arms manufacturing companies that run the entire development of America, a large oil company where private capital goes on. We can't repaint that system with us. We had what we had, which in these basic scientific disciplines, first of all I mean physics and chemistry, had some results, was fundamentally destroyed when Domazet came. The Vinci case. Even with yours, chemistry. Yes, Mr. Popovic, you have very intelligent there, you know I know, and good colleagues who have made good innovations and can take pictures with it. Those who need to approve it will not approve, but that is why, in time, General Brankovic of Kovacica, who escapes the army, does with some project something, he has the priority to go. You're not handling this. Maybe you're young and you don't know. So the Owl was destroyed in Nis, so the Iri and other institutes were destroyed. Why? There's a mob that brings something, finishes the job, our science -- in the car. That's why I'm telling you, by this bill of law, you haven't solved the central issue. Where is this fundamental point, the axis that is responsible for the development of science and technology in our country. The economy, at this point forget it. These privates, they're all fucking, you're missing them. Which private will give for the development of science? A karic to give for the development of science? Don't, please, what a black karic. He's looking black under his fingernails to take people, he's going to give science. He took pictures for his university, picked up some retired professors and some refugees, made some university to take money and to launder money. I hope these amendments will give us a chance to point out to you: the central issue has not been resolved, and privatisation will practically depend on the government. If privatisation should depend solely on the government, then for this law I will not raise my hand, because there is a man in the government who lifts his leg because of the problems with the blood vessels, so everyone has to come to him and drown. However, a good number of these institutes have already been privatised insiderically, those who were not significant to the state and were not of strategic interest. But don't be surprised if you pass this bill of yours, Mr Popovic, after a few months you'll resign because you'll see how some institutes are privatized and what lobby from abroad wants to be installed here. How can we talk about objective criteria, how is the Military Research Institute privatised, what is happening with "Santa Stanojlovic"? Who's destroying that? Serbian Radical Party? It destroys power, individuals in power, interest groups, and it's very good that you put these four before the fifth item of the agenda. Every law is anti-corruption, and with us, corruption is booming, with us corruption in the system, comes from the president of the state, from the Prime Minister, from the Deputy Prime Minister. If Mira Markovic had organised a fashion show, it would have been a bombing, and when Tadic organizes all the newspapers, they have to show. If Milosevic was the president of the SPS and the president of the Republic of Bombing, Tadic could be. The more you're harassed by Tadic, the more you love him. Well, you serve him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23483	The word has the People's MP Velimir Simonovic, and if there is time, then MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23484	Ladies and gentlemen, without wanting to get into any controversy, I noticed a big difference between what Mr. Masic said from the Serbian Radical Party and what Mr. Krasic was saying. I don't know what this is about. Let's move on to what I'm trying to say. The Encyclopedia and Dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Science are indeed a major venture and it is finally good that the government has decided to systematically fund these two major projects. Someone mentioned that we had an encyclopedia of Stanoi Stanojevic, which was published between the two wars. It's a very good, very valuable encyclopedia. After the war, we had the Encyclopaedia of Education, which was ideologically colored, that's true. Then they asked, when the second edition came out, who wants to give back the first edition, then they'll get this second one. Of course, I didn't want to return the first one, but I took the second one, and then I compared it. Then many, especially political figures, which were in the first edition, were presented or left out quite differently. Therefore, it is not true that we have no experience in encyclopaedia work. The encyclopedia performed by Miroslav Krleža should not be ignored. There is much about things that have happened in Serbia, the Serbian people, etc. It is indeed a great need to create a Serbian encyclopedia. Just to remind you -- what it meant in its time was the French encyclopedia, which was done by Walter, Dalamber, Didro, how much that book affected the development of science and culture. Not to speak any further, it's important that this job is done. As far as the Serbian language of the Academy of Sciences is concerned, it's a job that's been going on for decades. Finally, the government decided to support the big financial project, of great importance. To get back to research. As for my remarks, I won't talk about them, I'll bring it to the board, which is at 1400 hours. I'll bring it up when we talk in a tight circle - just board members. I'd like to say one thing in general right now. Mr. Secretary knows that, I've had a chance to speak at a board meeting before. I talked about it, and when it was the Law of Higher Education before about the university, more than once, since I've been here for a long time. In fact, it's that we have to define ourselves as a state what we're going to finance in the domain of science. We're a small country, relatively poor, and we can't finance all scientific areas, because we don't have opportunities, and maybe scientific potential. But we have to choose certain areas where we can't lag behind, the ones that we follow, that we're informed, and only in some we can give, if we can, our own contributions to world science. We have many institutes, and I am deeply convinced that one particular rationalization can be carried out, that some institutes join together, that some disappear, are neither necessary nor necessary. The state must be defined to form five or fewer national institutes to finance from the budget. There will be our best experts and they shouldn't think about how they'll earn their wages. There's probably a strong geology institute coming in here, now there's two of them; it needs to be united. Then, a strong economic institute, which would work for the government's needs above all, and for the economy, which would be a very strong human economic institute. Since we have a great tradition, it takes one historical institute, not more institutions for modern history, for classical history, labour movement, etc.; therefore, one strong institute, with several departments that will function there. Maybe another institute. But these few institutes, which would be such as to bring together the best people, the most capable fit, they should really be financially supported from the budget, that they don't have to think about their salaries. The other institutes go to market. What's this about? Let me just mention one area, for example. physics. We have an Institute in Vinci, where a good deal of physics is involved. We have a Faculty of Physical Sciences, which deals exclusively with physics. We have every technical university in the physics department where people do physics. We have the Institute of Physics in Zemun. Is all this necessary for Serbia and can Serbia finance all this? What is the situation of the Minister or the Ministry? That something money that gets out of the budget, it's never enough, it divides everyone a little bit, all the tents, and nowhere can rights, difficult, modern, modern and advanced scientific research be done. I remind you that the former president of the Academy of Sciences, Pavle Savic, once said: "In the last 20 years no significant discovery in physics has been made in our country. "Now we would say - in the last 30-40 years or after World War II. Do we have significant scientific discoveries in other natural sciences - biology, chemistry, etc? That's where we have to seriously imagine ourselves. I just said, we can't make a big breakthrough everywhere in world science, but we have to choose a few scientific areas where we can do it, if we channel the funds properly and if we choose the people who can do it well. In doing so, we must take special care of young, talented people. I had a chance to say -- no longer appreciates the wealth of a country by how much natural resources, ore, this or that are, but by how many talented physicists, mathematicians, poets, doctors, etc. That's what appreciates the wealth of a country in modern times. We can't ignore it, that's what I want to stress again, but we have to finance fundamental research in some areas, where we can do that, but not ask them to apply to the economy for a year. I'll quote again, I've done it several times, when English mathematician George Bull created his mathematical logic or the logic of the testimony, or what's called Bull's algebra, he wrote in one piece literally this: "I don't know if this will be of any use, but I hope there won't be any harm." After more than 100 years, this Bul's algebra has found fantastic applications; we wouldn't have computers without that algebra, programming languages, cybernetics, etc. It found everything applied to Bull's algebra, created more than 100 years ago, and began to apply more than 40 years ago, when computer technique began, etc. Thus, very often researchers work in fundamental sciences, so application will come, but later on. We can't ask these people for results right now, so we can improve some of our production tomorrow. This will be done by others, they are researches of other species etc. But we mustn't ignore that so-called. fundamental research, at least in some areas, where we can be equal with the rest of the world. By the way, as far as the laws are concerned, I don't want to praise them, there's no need to, I support them, they're modernized, it's a fact, world trends are being followed, I don't have any objection. Today at 1400 hours, I'll make two or three complaints to the board. That's what I was gonna say. There's no need to be afraid. When I was talking about high school, it was the same story -- rationalizing higher education. It finally takes one government, whether this one gets here or not, we'll see that it seriously enters the rationalization of scientific institutes. When I talk about rationalization, I'm not saying it's just a matter of putting an end to it. No, if there's a scientific field that's not represented in any of our institutes or colleges, and it's very important, we'll open up a new institute if we have to. So, we shouldn't look at rationalization just as an elimination, but we should understand so that we can also start new scientific institutions, if some of the scientific areas are not represented at all. But what is extra or what can be united, to be united. In addition, as for the number of institutes and how they work, Mr Popovic is well aware of it, I remember when we spoke once on the board, when he said there were two institutes in the same areas, and the door next to each other. Serbia cannot finance all this, nor should it finance it. But it's a big deal, it's people. Don't talk about it for the first time, I'm not the one talking about the rationalization of the institute for the first time. Even years ago, a professor, I don't want to mention his name, but the deceased, our otherwise famous mathematician, was the director of an institute, when it came to reforming Serbia, he said, "We'll be easy with the institutes, but what about the directors. "This government must not succumb to it. We need to take care of the institutes, and with the directors, we can handle it easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23485	Thank you, Mr. Simonovic. Mr. Krasic asked for the replica, I assume the name was mentioned? Here you go, based on the wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23486	Professor Simonovic really misread what I said. That's why I called. (President: Be kind, please, address) They are dissatisfied with the status of their party, not to come out. I'd ask you to let them out, say what they have to say, not get it. What is this misunderstanding about? Mr. Mašić and I are not on different sides. We fully represent the same attitude in this area. The only difference is that in a more striking way I pointed out my disagreement with the situation, but a great deal of agreement with what Professor Simonovic said afterwards. Here's what this is about; you have so many institutes in this country, and they don't have the courage, because the state doesn't stimulate them, neither does it force them, nor helps them say, I'm going to take an example that's available to me, to tell the truth. People, there in The Hague are accused of our country, we have institutes dealing with this matter, and they are silent and not allowed to write. Please, even if someone comes voluntarily to work through their fund, such as Dr Milan Bulajic, then your Minister Koadinovic steals his computers, closes the fund and sends it to Kragujevac to stop the work. So where's the documentation from the Committee for Collecting Evidence of Crimes Against Serbs? In some institute, in some bunker, why it wasn't scientifically processed, why it wasn't given to our people, because they defend Serbian history there. I took an example that is known to everyone, it's available to everyone, we watch it every day, from 9.30 p.m. to 14.00 p.m. you watch it defend Serbia, the Serbian people, by limited means. This country doesn't want to open bunkers and file files. Rasim Ljajic gives Karli del Ponte documentation, gives every white world opponent, but does not allow our people to defend themselves. You're dating us with these stories of some institutes, some kind of research and so on. In the end, one more thing that made me come forward, because I'm being misread. We are a small country, we are not able to separate much for science. I don't see much of a problem if there are two identical scientific institutes. One of the principles of how you came up with this law is competitiveness, there's no competitiveness if there's only one, but there's a den, a deposit, a acquired position, a monopoly, so it's a good thing you're predicting competitiveness. But I'm telling you, I don't see a nuclearus that directs where our resources exist, where our possibilities exist, I've agreed with the professor, maybe in the field of physics we can't materially support some research, but we have people we can involve, in appropriate places abroad, to be an integral part of a project, and that's another situation. I'm telling you, I don't see a nuclearus that's going to help, direct, see only one farce where again with fixed programs you're going to get funds to sleep for six months or a year. And that's what we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23487	Please, but you see your time. So, replica, I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Mr. Simonovic. Don't just correct all the inaccuracies, the educational program isn't broadcast on TV at all, and at that time, go ahead. According to the Rules of Procedure, he was misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23488	You all know how hard it is for me to get into replicas, I don't like it. I only find that there are great differences between what Mr. Mašić and Mr. Krasic said. Mr. Masic spoke very highly of the laws, and his remarks will probably be spoken of on the board or when amendments are discussed, and there is nothing wrong. What I don't like is an easy assessment. Mr. Krasic comes in here and says, "That and that quasi-scientist." Who are you to judge these people, please, Mr. Krassic! Do you know what procedure they went through when they became regular professors, how many times have the expert committee reports been written? Ask your Mr. Pokuric, and he'll tell you what the procedure is until you become a regular professor, and you just shake your hand - quasi-scientists. It's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23489	It's okay, please. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. Jovanovic. The break, as announced, we have to stick to the words given, break until 2.30 p.m. Thank you. [[After break – 14.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize once again for the little delay of the sequel, but that was semi-contractual, which would say, here in front of, amongst the MPs. Thank you for understanding. Mr. Krasic, did you stay at the request for a replica, or according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23491	We can, Mr. President, get the impression that we're talking about the same thing, and so far we've talked about something that's different in its contents. If I used that term once, the quasi-scientists, then most MPs know what people I mean. I think of those interesting groups of people who, thanks to the Ministry, worked on some legal projects where they had their own weights and took the money, and as a result of their scientific work that ultimately has some draft law, failed translations appeared. Thus, the translation of the Law on Public Procurement of Slovenians, so the Law on Prosecution, the Law on Executive Procedure, where, among other things, some plagiarists, legally proven plagiarists. I'm not going to use my name and last name right now, but if an extraordinary professor of one college has to, based on the decision of a teaching council, on the college's advertising board to publish the corrections of his textbook, and 50 material difficult mistakes, which is the result of not even being able to literally rewrite what Laza Kostic wrote, I'm sorry, please, then I can't have respect for such a person, and this verdict was proven as a plagiarizer. I was thinking of you if someone recognized in that term quasi-scientists to challenge science. No, there's no need to challenge science, hang out with these people, even help them out in a scientific journal. Even by typing their texts for foreign magazines, since this is a condition so they can advance in their profession. I'm extremely familiar with the state of science, but not the matter of the science. I don't understand medicine, I can understand the position of scientists in the field of medicine, I can understand the position of scientists in the field of chemistry and other areas. What they're doing specifically, I have no right to go in and not talk about it. I'm talking about these peripheral cases, which are distinctive, characteristic, where scientific titles are being misused to launder some money, and it's formally-legally not even related to the Ministry, specifically these cases where legal projects are involved. It doesn't even have anything to do with this case. But it's an integral part of our scientific research, and I hope no one can blame me for a critical reference to a newer history and a passive position of our science. When we talk about science, I'm just thinking about scientific methods that come into some truth and some facts. I'm not talking about parapsychological methods or emotional methods. No, I don't. I'm very familiar with these methods of science, because I'm kind of modest about some part that has touch points of science, and I don't need anyone to respect me for not understanding something that's written in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23492	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Here you are, MP Zlatan Jovanovic, then MP Rajko Baralić, and then MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic, they replaced the order of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23493	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in a few sentences I will try to make some suggestions and objections to these proposed laws. So I'm going to make my humble contribution to making these texts as legal as possible. There are four laws ahead of us. I'll start from the first, I'll start in a row. As for the law on innovation activity, of course it is clear to all of Serbia that the importance of this law is extremely large and the importance of innovation in Serbia at all, of course, in every other country. Perhaps this importance of innovation at this point in Serbia is somewhat greater than it was before, since in some flows and trends of integration into European integration, as it is called, where it will be very difficult to place domestic products, domestic goods on the world market, for the simple reason that we are not yet competitive enough with world prices. If we want to achieve this competitiveness we must have as low as possible the prices of our products and services, and of course we want to do business with a certain profit and make a profit in our production. This profit can only be achieved if we reduce production costs. In order to reduce costs, it is necessary to introduce some changes daily in the production process, innovations that will contribute to reducing production costs. For this reason, the importance of innovation is extremely large, especially at this time for Serbia. What I want to make here as some objections, and somewhere even my dilemmas, specifically in this first proposal, refer to Article 11, where it is said about the register of innovation activities. What's unclear to me, and it seems to me that maybe it's confusing in this article here and explained, is that the Ministry is running an innovation activity registry. It is not clear to me whether there is a register of activity or a register of operators, as set out in point 3. In the case of entities carrying innovative activity, Article 5 lists all those entities from development and production centres to entrepreneurs, no natural persons are mentioned. Article 11 also mentions natural persons as entities to be subject to this register. So they too can be registered as carriers of innovation, and Article 5 does not mention natural persons. It seems to me that there is a little confusion in Article 11, and that this should sort of be corrected, to be clear, unequivocal, that there are no dilemmas in the interpretation of this article. Position 4 says the minister determines the conditions regarding the necessary structure. It seems to me that it should not have been in the power of the minister, perhaps it could have been left to this committee, which was proposed in Article 9 that she handles these matters, given the work she was given in Article 9. The next thing I want to point out in this proposal is to fund innovation activity. Article 34 mentions the sources of funds from which this work will be financed, and mentions the budget of the Republic, the AP budget, the budget of local self-government, international financial organisations, the fund for innovation, other funds, etc. And here for the first time we have a new fund, something that didn't exist before, means a fund from which these projects will be financed. What I want to point out concerns Article 42, which refers to the fund's revenues, where the Republic of Serbia's budget is mentioned again. So, the Republic of Serbia's budget appears twice as a source of funding for these purposes -- once as a direct participant, and twice through the fund. I don't think that's very appropriate and that it should have just been through the fund, that otherwise the budget is not involved in financing these projects. Next, article 45 speaks of the bodies of the fund. It is mentioned that there are administrative and supervisory committees and directors, as bodies operating the fund. I will pay your attention only to paragraph 3 which speaks of the composition of the board of directors. It says here that the board of directors has nine members, consisting of four government representatives, NBS representatives, AP Vojvodina, the PKK, the city of Belgrade and the fund. It seems to me that it's not very good, at least at this point, to wipe out the other province of ours, or this is how the government gives up those other provinces, I don't know what it's about, but I just don't think it's smart enough, rationally, at this point, one of the provinces, which is still part of Serbia, at least formally, and I hope they stay within Serbia, will wipe out from this law. Finally, as far as this first legislative proposal is concerned, I would like to say briefly about the economic incentive measures in Article 51. I think it's too little attention to these measures, it's just being spoken in Article 51, and I think that's the essence of all of this. Without these measures, there is no development of this activity in Serbia. If we want to be honest, the biggest contribution in all of this is to those people who are doing something right now. So we can't talk so much about science here, about people sitting in institutes and colleges, although of course I'm not reducing their contribution. But still, when it comes to innovation, the biggest contribution is to people who are directly performing certain operations, they are the ones who can improve this production and should be stimulated, by them, by entrepreneurs, by companies and all other entities where this is happening, by means of various tax incentives, by subsidies or by some other incentive measures, to achieve the greatest and the best effect in this area. I wanted so much to say about this first law. As for the second law on scientific research, Article 8, the strategy of scientific and technical development; several months ago we had a strategy for the development of energy in Serbia, and a strategy for the development of agricultural production was announced, Serbia's development strategy was announced. It seemed more practical and rational to start first in this assembly from Serbia's development strategy, and that all these partial strategies were part of this overall comprehensive strategy of Serbia's development and that this strategy produced this or that we came to Serbia's general development strategy on the basis of all of this. This way, we enter the Assembly in part with various strategies, when and whether it will sublime itself in a strategy of Serbia's development I don't know, but time goes by, we go into something very partial. The next thing you know is the national council, which is formed by this law. Article 13 states that the council has 19 members, elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. One of my predecessors said our disagreement was principled. We had something similar with the Law on Fundamental and Medium Education, where we chose the National and Educational Council, and it was chosen by the Serbian Parliament. Why isn't it done the same way here? Why is this body not chosen by the Assembly but appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if we want to establish a principle and that it is respected and passed through all the laws. Paragraph 3 states that in the national council, the government appoints six members from six fields of science, on a proposal from the Community of the Serbian Institute. First of all, it's unclear what sciences are, who's going to determine them, based on which criteria. Here you are talking about the Community of the Serbian Institute, and in article 26, when you talk about the Institute community, you say that it is not mandatory. It can be formed by institutes, all or most of them. What if they don't form it, and the deadline for forming this council is 90 days from the day of adoption of the law? What if the institutes don't find an interest in forming a community of institutes or a community of institutes forms a smaller number of institutes than half, and here it's about most or all of the institutes. It seems to me that it is not fully defined and clarified, so that there may be some complications and problems in the application of this law. The point is also to this composition, I think three members are too much from the Chamber of Commerce since this is about scientific research. It could be one member of the Chamber of Commerce that's not disputed, but to be three, I think it's too much at this point. The next law is the law on the Serb encyclopedia. Article 3(2) states that the publisher of the encyclopedia is the Institute for textbooks and teaching agents. I'm interested, without the intention of diminishing the importance and importance of this institution, why and on which basis the Office was elected, and not someone else. We have a lot of publishers in Serbia or why it is not otherwise defined, by applying the Public Procurement Act or otherwise. Why is it the law to determine who will be the publisher? Article 4 says prominent domestic and foreign experts from all scientific and professional areas of importance for encyclopaedia are involved in the production of encyclopedias. I have not seen in this proposal who makes the choice of these experts and on the basis of which criteria this choice will be made. At the end of this four proposal, I will say only one personal dilemma here – I do not understand why this is called the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts dictionary, why it is not a Serbian dictionary or a Serbian dictionary, without reducing the role of the Academy and not reducing the importance of the Academy in all of this, or the role the Academy needs to play in all of this. The academy will make a dictionary, but I think it's more common for it to be called a Serbian dictionary or a Serbian dictionary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23494	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People, under these four laws, I will talk mainly about the proposal for a law on innovation activity and I will comment on the second law, while the rest will not. Namely, what it's about. Mr. Zlatan Jovanovic noted that this law left out a natural person and that he is trying to make innovation work practically a reference to certain organisations that are foreseen by this law. I think the subject matter of this law had to be at least defining concepts like what patents are, what is a small patent, what is a technical improvement, as a basis for innovation activity. There's no law here. It may be a proposal for some other laws, but in this law it had to be found. Namely, what it's about. Innovation itself as an innovative activity is not a matter of scientific research or cannot be identified by scientific research. When it comes to gaining knowledge, this horizontal way of gaining people's knowledge through education that comes to all the knowledge that mankind has or to some that are available to them. But you have to keep in mind, as a science minister, that there's a specific kind of knowledge acquisition or vertical vision of knowledge acquisition, when someone comes to the idea, what they once said to a long time ago, or when someone without a certain prior knowledge comes up with something that's completely new, something they haven't met before. It's the privilege of just some people chosen among us, it's some communication with someone higher, as a believer, I think it's communication with the Almighty, that someone comes into a position to come up with a new solution that never existed and that he couldn't get by by getting knowledge through education. As an example of this, I would like to quote perhaps most of the MPs of the forgotten former candidate for President of the Republic of Slovenia, who learned to write and read during the military service in Montenegro. Not even for the rest of his life, and tragically, he didn't learn to measure time per hour. However, as a physical worker in a German hospital, he came to an innovation, it was a device in medicine that was used and therefore he gained a huge fortune. So his privilege was to notice something on a medical device that a large number of scientists, who had vast knowledge before that, couldn't notice and therefore I'm telling you that innovation itself is mostly reduced to a physical person, which is here in this way, as the law is defined, is practically left out. When it comes to innovation activity, you also have where it's foreseen how innovation activity can be accelerated or helped, the fund is organized. However, when read better, it can be seen that this fund will virtually provide no help to those involved in innovation work, except that through business-technological incubators or through a science-technological park it will actually enable rooms and equipment for those involved, of course, with compensation, innovative work. But most of these people who come into a situation to patent something, to have some innovation, are unable to pay those compensations, and the organizations will probably be able to. You have so far in Serbia a large number of people who have come to some technical improvements, who have come to small patents by perfecting their work in an already existing technical solution, and who ultimately could not do so in a fair or proper way to protect it. The law also had to predict how intellectual property will be protected by those who are innovators and what will continue to happen with this intellectual property. So far there's been a former Federal Institute of Intellectual Property, now it's just the Institute of Intellectual Property, and I'll tell you on a personal case how it works. Since I have two registered patents at the Federal Institute of Intellectual Property, I will tell you that in the interview with their lawyers I was informed that these patents can be commercialized or alienated only in situations if they were already exposed to an international exhibition. One of these patents was exhibited at an international exhibition, but it was unfortunate that the international exhibition has been led to us lately by representatives from Macedonia, Republika Srpska and thus has the status of an international exhibition. All those who have registered patents and registered at the Institute of Intellectual Property, it comes down to the fact that, in March or April, they receive practically a request from the Bureau to pay a membership fee or a fee, and it has been for years, the law does not explain in any way how what is already protected by law or registered in the business. This law bypasses it. I think it would be necessary for this law, if it's already called the Law on Innovation Activity, to include that some people, in most innovations, are happening in individuals, can in a fair way protect that intellectual property, that they have the help to commercialize it. Here, the foundation fund will not allow them to commercialise it and that if this law is already established, it has such close co-operation with the economy, so that whoever registered a particular patent would not have to go through people, to search individual economic entities to possibly offer them, to agree with them to organise it at the state level. To pay particular attention, which here is not addressed by this law, in which way it will be protected when it comes to the international theft of those intellectual rights that someone has, where the state must stand as someone who will protect each individual patent that is registered with this. To the conclusion that innovations can only be done by certain, chosen people, that not everyone can, I came more than 10 years ago, when I spent more than two months in Hilandara and spent that time in fasting and praying. I realized that simply without this vertical knowledge of things, no one can, regardless of all the horizontal and the acquisition of knowledge by horizontal, come up with any innovation, no technical improvement, patent or small patent, unless he owns that gift. Unfortunately, we don't all own it, but we need to protect those who possess it and put their achievements into function of our country's development. I'll just say a few more words about the draft law on scientific research. As the law is set out and envisaged, it will receive certain scientific research institutions, institutes, higher education institutions, etc. certain programmes on which to work in scientific research, and I am sure of only one thing: we will respect and, of course, as a state, have to function within a broader international community when it comes to this form of work, meaning scientific research work, get from some of these international scientific institutions a partial individual project, our people working in scientific research will work on these partial projects. We will never get a whole project to work, and then we will give in to these scientific achievements for very little money, and they will serve those of whom the job is ordered to practically come to an integral product that will commercialise and that we will later import and have to pay. It's the biggest, if I may say so, the flaw of this law, which is not foreseen that we will be able to come to a whole new product in scientific research, which we will be able to commercialize and impose on the world. And right here, when all of this is read, it's only going to be partial scientific research projects that we're going to give to others. The law on the Serbian encyclopedia and on the dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts will not be discussed, I think it will be much more professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23496	The People's MP Vesna Obradovic has the word, and let the MP Milan Veselinović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23497	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us with proposals for a law on scientific research, on innovation activity, on the Serbian encyclopedia and on the dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. The law on innovation work, on the Serbian Academy of Science and Art dictionary, as well as the law on the Serbian encyclopedia, is a novelty in our country. For the first time, they regulate certain areas. The Law on the Dictionary of the Academy of Science and Art will finally create an institutional framework for permanent work on this important national document, as well as a legal framework for the formation of a kind of lexiographic institution, i.e. bodies that would be involved in the production of 10 volumes of Serbian encyclopedia over the next 10 years. The law should now allow the work to be constantly financially supported by the state. The law on the Serb encyclopedia regulates the work on the national encyclopedia, as Serbia is one of the few countries that does not have such an encyclopedia. Scientific research activity in Serbia is currently regulated by a law that was passed since 1993. Many things have changed in the meantime and the need for a new law and for sublaws has existed for a long time. A good example of such a need is a sublegal act, a rules on elections in titles, which new forms of scientific activity and statements of scientific results simply do not take into account, because at the time when it was adopted they did not even exist. The law ahead of us is trying to put order into scientific research in Serbia, and that's very good. This law defines ways of making decisions on a scientific strategy, introduces the concept of a national advice on scientific and technological development as bodies that, of course, will determine scientific policy in co-operation with the minister. The programmes of general importance for the Republic are explicitly listed. It is especially good that in that part attention is given to young people and to the spread of science. A number of types of institutes have been introduced, conditions have been defined to meet. The term was introduced: accreditation of scientific research institutes of all kinds and a certain way of obtaining them, but also of losing them. A clear classification of scientific titles and their equivalence with university titles was introduced. These are just some examples of those achievements of this law that make G17 plus thinks that this law and all these laws should be passed. With the introduction of parent committees, which will have great influence and broad powers, above all in professional matters, the ministry will become a technical body in this segment. The parent committees, which will be made up of scientists who propose parent research organisations, will create the possibility of decentralisation, i.e. to have a greater share in deciding exactly the scientific community. Of course, there are a couple of objections to this bill. The law in several places contains a formula that can be said to be somewhat inaccurate and we will amend it tomorrow on the board to correct it. Let's say, in Article 39 of the Law, where the possibilities of practical activities of the Institute and commercialisation of the results of scientific research work are discussed, I agree that scientific research organisations are given the opportunity to carry out, without a change in organisational structure, additional work that is directly related to the scientific research work they do. It is known that institutes provide certain specialised services for the needs of users, i.e. markets, and that this is an additional source of their funding, but I think one "but" should be added, provided that these jobs do not endanger the quality of scientific research work, i.e. that this does not undermine scientific research. Another example of an inaccurate formulation in the text of the proposal for this law is the definition of the center of excellence introduced in Article 60. The centres of excellence are well known in the scientific world, and I think it is good that the promoter predicted them, but it is not good that the definition of the center of excellence, given in Article 60, meets almost all serious institutes, so the ministry will find itself in a situation where there are excess centres of excellence. On the other hand, it is not clear what benefits this status carries. Serbian science has shown strength and vitality over the past years and decades. This law opens up opportunities to increase material investment, to find ways to better define it, so that the funds invested are used in the most rational way. The G17 will vote in favour of this set of laws and I call on all MPs to support these laws, as they are given the opportunity to reduce, above all, the brain drain from Serbia, which means primarily the outflow of young people leaving our country in search of better conditions for scientific work. This law finally creates these conditions to keep and bring smart people back to Serbia, and that is quite enough for them to vote on these laws in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23498	The word is from Ambassador Milan Veselinovic, followed by Dr Dragoljub Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the set of today's legislative projects has great importance in our country, and all of us who have had contact with scientific research and have regularly studied schools know what they mean. In fact, to this day this matter has not been properly regulated, but the problem has been specific in the previous period, and today this proposal for legal projects is not good, but the question is whether it will be applied and implemented in practice at all. There are major problems in this area of research and innovation. There are some pyramidal relations that I could spot when I worked at the Ministry of Education and when we had contacts with many scientific research organizations, primarily the institutes. In fact, the institutes existed in the previous period, but recently they have served more as a social institution than to be a research organisation with certain references and certain successes in designing projects. We all know that we have brought a lot of legal projects, but unfortunately in practice they are weakly applied or very little applicable, which means that our work and effort are in vain, means that Serbian citizens have little interest in it. These legal projects, of great importance and importance, I personally fear that they will not be applied easily in practice. That's what the experience so far has to say, for example. Scientific research organisations and innovations very little contribute to our economy and our economic development, and lately, on October 5, 2000, since this power, just a little bit redefined, these scientific research organisations are even more distant from the real task they need to have, which is that they have their creativity and that they have the main word for projects and the development of our economy. That's why it happens to us that we have an even bigger outflow of personnel in the last five years than in the period when sanctions have been imposed on our country. We're all wondering what it is, where that money is, these big promised donations of over six billion, if they even came and if it's invested in the right direction, whether it's invested in science and scientific research. Unfortunately, it shows time not to, because we have allowed our country to be plagued by many NGOs, Soros. They're trying through organizations and some of their centers to bribe and bribe our young scientists, and that's how they recruit them for their interests, and that's why today we have this drain of our staff. We have big objections here, we Serbian radicals, to these laws. First of all, I will say something about this first law on innovation work, where Article 5 says: "Innovation workers, according to this law, are: development and production centres, research and development centres, innovation centres and business-technological incubators, scientific and technological parks, higher education institutions, institutes, companies and entrepreneurs". There's a lot of people involved here who need to deal with this problem. In addition to what my predecessors have mentioned, that no inventor and protected patent has been defined, we have here many things that have been given to the minister's authority, that the minister decides on many matters on his own. For example, what jurisdiction the Ministry has. I will specifically refer to point 5) where it is said "to submit to the Government at least once a year a report on the state and results of the inventive activity in the Republic". This activity should be notified only by the Government, but also by the Serbian Parliament, not by the Ministry's jurisdiction, where it is responsible for the development, realization and acceleration of innovation activities. Then, to the responsibility and competence of the Minister, it also belongs to the formation and education of the Commission for the Monitoring of Development and Commercial Exploitation of Innovation. We think this commission is of great importance. It would be too much for one minister to be able to form this commission, which, in addition to other things, prepares an expert analysis in the field of innovation, then analyses the foreign practice in this area, initiates amendments to the applicable laws and regulations in this area, with the aim of encouraging innovation activity. I think this commission should be formed by the Ministry, but with the proposal of the Innovation Action Holder. I believe that this is fairer and that the research development sector at the Ministry of Science has that authority that, on the basis of these proposals, it can form this commission, which has exceptional importance. Then, we have a chapter two, a register of innovation work. Article 11(3) states: "The Minister lays down the conditions regarding the necessary organisational and professional structure of the legal person, as well as on the professionality and results of the work of the natural person under which a legal, or natural person can be entered in the register, as well as the conditions under which it is deleted from the register". I'm simply reading some notes that all the contributions in the area of innovation work have been given to the minister. So the minister can abuse his jurisdiction here. I'm not saying that this should be in the department's jurisdiction, because it avoids the formation of some new council, I don't know what to call it, but that bureaucratic apparatus would be diminished. We think that the Ministry of Science can decentralised this a little bit, simply that this job is done by certain sectors, and on the proposal of those competent ones that I mentioned earlier. By contrast, on the proposal for a law on innovation activity, we Serbian radicals have a lot of objections, some of my colleagues said, and I'll remind some of them. I apologize, it is a law on scientific research, we have Chapter Two, Article 8 - A strategy for scientific and technological development of the Republic of Serbia. We have been suggested that this strategy for the scientific development of the Republic of Serbia be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We think that this observation by Mr Mašić was in place, that this strategy should define this high house - parliament and not for 10 years, as foreseen by this member and that this is what the Serbian government does, but for five years. We cannot predict how much you will rule. I don't think you're going to be five years, but much less, but what's a lot -- it's a lot. Ten years is a lot. This strategy is very important for scientific research. Article 9. The last two positions: "Strategy is brought for a period of 10 years. The strategy is particularly achieved through the programme of general interest set out in this law." So, if we read the importance of this strategy, we would have to conclude that this is not well defined and that this needs to be corrected, which will be proposed as an amendment to get rid of. In the third area, we have the quality of scientific research and the development of scientific research. Here we have a sorted - national council, etc., and we have the formation of a national council for scientific and technological development again. My predecessors talked a lot about it. I'll remind you that in every area and almost every legal project, you're predicting some kind of national council or agency, some kind of mall. If you consider, if we count here what is provided for in Article 11 - the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, then the Committee on Accreditation, and then the Scientific Call Commission, then the Community of the Serbian Institute, etc. If you take all of this - how many members there are and it needs to be financed from the budget, we think it's a lot of our citizens of Serbia. Since my colleagues certainly have a lot to say about this, in the end I'm going to say that here, what's wrong with all these laws is that no criminal provisions are provided. You don't know who's going to answer to who in the event of any violations, any economic offenses or anything else. Then, finally, let me say that these legal projects should narrow down the functioning of NGOs, Sorosha, to prevent the spilling of our personnel from our country. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23500	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr Dragoljub Kojcic. Let the People's Messenger of Milet Pocurica be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23501	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if this is going to begin with a form of scientific testimony, but I'd say I have the impression that there's someone in life and in space who's packing things. Here, today is November 29th, the famous great day of the Yugoslav peoples, especially their greatest son. I had an undisclosed association right on Broz. The reason why we haven't had our encyclopedia in 60 years is, above all, very clearly - Joseph Broz Tito's policy. There was a Lexicographic Institute in Zagreb, headed by Miroslav Krleža as director. We learned that the world looks like it went through the prism of Miroslav Krleža. There is no exhilarating fact that there was, in the edition of "The People's Work" before World War II, one edition of an encyclopaedic type called "Knowledge", one of Peter Petrovic's large green books. But also here, given the other members of the three-week tribe, we had to take care of what was going to be said about Ban Jelačić, what would be said about Anti Starčević. What will look like the struggle of the Serb people for unification in 1914 to 1918 and so on. So the time has come for the Serbian people to have absolute self-awareness, absolute self-awareness. I remember, while I was editor of the State List, we called it the Policy, Culture and Economy List in 1990, and then we realized after two or three numbers that it was much more important to make a different layout of the concepts and put that culture is ahead of politics and ahead of the economy. Culture is the source of everything, culture is the source of the very meaning of existence. I can't help but recall that the word "encyclopaedia" means circular knowledge, from whichever idea you start, when you go through all the cycles of knowledge, you will eventually return to the one you started from. I've got one association again, and that's sugar. What's sugar got to do with it? Yes, it has very direct encyclopaedic connections. Gentlemen, we know what it looked like when our so-called. economic operators repacked sugar and exposed it to Europe as our own. The same thing was done with the Serbian language when it was repacked and made new languages, as it is in these days so-called. Montenegrin language and other languages. So, what do we have to do? We simply need to learn from what we need to do. We need to understand, and this is what a great 20th-century philosopher said when he was trying to explain how misunderstandings occur between people, resulting from the same words or the same concepts being used in two different ways. We are followed by an evening of the world view, followed by us making first senses, and educational, and cultural, and any other standards, so that we do not know how to publish the textbook, that we do not know what we will write about Grigori Bozovic, and what we will do about Dragisa Vasic. Is anyone going to say, it's a folk enemy, and he should actually stand in every encyclopedia as a great Serbian narrator. That's what Serbia has to do, and what is reform by its essence. It is the first reform that stands, to say, as a task in front of the Serb people. Those who have repacked our tongue, for them is what Epicteth once said, so when he says, "Take something else's, so you believe it's yours, then you're on the wrong path that's ever gonna hit your head." So somewhere 40 years ago in Novi Sad, there was a battle for a language that, unfortunately, we didn't win. At that time, one of the big linguists from Zagreb and Belgrade was that so-called the unique Serbian-Croatian language to be so convenient that in the Zagreb version it will say point and point, and we will accept to say comma, with them accepting to say point. In language practice, which is in fact a real lacmus paper of every political relationship, there was always a point in Zagreb and there was always a point in it, and there was a point in us other than that, as a memory of the Serbian language, a point. Gentlemen, that's the point and I'm hearing it today. And I hear today, and from the people of the highest places, say the euro instead of the euro. The euro is a Serbian word for Europe and all who say the euro are trying to justify themselves and say it is an international term. As far as I know, the English say yuro, the Germans oer and so on. For us to establish a system of concepts and a system of knowledge that will be Serbian, which will allow us to be cosmopolitans, who when it is stopped on one CD, will be able to take every engineer or worker who goes into the world, when he goes there to say, I carry Serbia with me, carry a heart with me, whether I am from Banja Luka, whether I am from Podgorica, whether I am from Belgrade, whether I am from Temiswar. So we're going to have to make such an interesting venture that, I think, is worthy of being a challenge for every great generation. It is, if we are worthy of being a great generation, to make the summit of Serbian culture, which, six years ago under the Germans, appeared in all forms of culture, from visual, musical, from culture of war to culture of banking, travel and so on, when we were in the midst of the civilization of our age, to do everything as if those six years of darkness and void had never been, as if Serbia had continued to exist in a serious, cultural, civilizational continuity. Therefore, the right to tell you, I think that Serbia is in the smallest place today and when we start taking care of that smallest point, then we will get a complete game for Serbian national and state interests. That dot is literally called stuck.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23502	The People's Messenger Milet Poscurica has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23503	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we today must confess, unlike a few days ago, we are discussing in a peaceful atmosphere, tolerated. It's not just because the topic that we're talking about is serious enough and acceptable enough for this way, for the intonation of the talks and the opposition side, but I think that the personal solution that we're talking about here is the minister, really the man that we can agree with, work with, and that's something that's possible, that's how a complete government should function. On the side of complimenting the minister, I don't think the law he's passed is absolutely in the details that the SRS would like to see, how she has her own vision of this law, but it's a law that makes one continuity in relation to the previous one, or trying to correct what was wrong and gives some kind of vision for the future. We will not agree on all of this, but surely we want to do one thing, by acting under the old law, as we have so far regulated scientific research work, we remember that Domazet has pretty much ruined many institutes, wrapped up in black, laid down vague provisions that make many in the position of institutes and only the current solutions of this law so much better, if more amendments are adopted, to regulate, to strengthen their position, to create a normal market, to create a normal environment for the exchange of knowledge and the competition of knowledge, as one has said. The way in which the proposed law on exploratory action is being proposed – first of all, I am talking about it, and I am thinking about it, because that we should also go with the dictionary, the encyclopedia has no dilemma and, of course, that we are going to form institutions that will support the implementation of this law through the fourth legal project that I have not mentioned, that is quite what it stands for – the basic concept of how it is imagined in the law, we think that it will not be able to follow the flow of money to the end. Unless, in a special way, it would put an accent on the performance of the parent committees, since they have real competences with continuous access and contact with those who are project holders, with an assessment of the validity of the project, with an assessment of the validity of researchers. We hope that the criteria that will be prescribed, proposed by the National Council, will be such, will be proportionate to the seriousness of the situation and the gravity of this time to create truly satisfying criteria and no one will be damaged, but there will be no such false scientific calling, which cannot support themselves the objectivity of what the candidate and the institutions applying for the project until then have dealt with. We think that as far as the strategy is concerned, as far as the concept is concerned, when we talk about the law and the adoption of the strategy, I share an opinion with the parliamentary group that has so far held a view that it is the same as the other segments of this society should be adopted by parliament, but this is neither the first nor the last to be brought by the practical ministry, or the Government, because it still goes from the Ministry to the Government. We don't have a strategy in education, we don't have a strategy in health care. We've seen the departments pass their laws on to us. This is one of the examples of where laws can be reduced, you degrade the importance and attitude of implementation and of this law, I mean, of course, for those who didn't understand it until the end, at the Vuksanovic Law on Higher Education, on Education, who really gave a lot of bad solutions, and now, by the intruding of this law, this law has to take on a lot of things. You can't go beyond that now, because they're kind of borderline, but very intertwined actions, scientific research and education, and it's hardly possible to separate that. This law has no intensity to separate, and that's good, and there's no need to make two channels about the same story. But when it comes to this body, which is also in the previous law and in this, since, as a global political environment, things are made by global and strategic decisions, which is the National Council, it is proposed that the National Council appoints the Government and in the powers given in this council as very important, and that is, above all, the adoption of a basic programme for strategic development contained in the strategy itself. In adopting this basic programme and the general interests that it should represent in the strategy, the key segment of the strategy, which we have said that we think may be too long for 10 years, and not just in terms of political relations, it shouldn't be so much dependent on, scientific research, scientific institutes, political forces. It's some kind of intervening behavior in science that goes up. If so, it is possible that it is long, since we do not know what will happen to our economy, which is the mass of temporary research projects intended for economic development. When we question what will remain of all ours and how much, as some predecessors have said from what remains, our research scientific work, trained to start with projects and to revive, repair, innovate, the question of how much someone will be interested in us, if all of these are foreign owners and allow or insert someone else. The worst option is that they compete for our projects and work on our field. But, well, I guess there are mechanisms to protect ourselves from and from, and especially since some have said that, through different institutions and through different organizations, NGOs don't nest and start carrying money for another arrangement, for some other social relationship, other concepts, primarily from other social or humanitarian sciences, where nothing is impossible. Since, as we can see from the bill, nothing is impossible, and even if scientific research organisations can establish even local self-government, individual, natural person, if there is enough money, to be supported from the outside, only to establish, so that our money, taxpayers, don't give God, poisons the public, depletes and does everything we don't expect them to do and what they have shown to do. In one of the members, where we wanted to intervene, we proposed to the Minister of Certain Intervention in this style, which is in the adoption of this programme of general interest, where, according to the bill, the minister expects the mundane council, as a crown body, to assist in this and bring a strategy, and in one part, it is envisaged that if they do not do so, the minister does so himself. First, we think that the minister, whatever he is, whatever competent associates he has, is not quite able to do it alone. And secondly, why would you tolerate this elected national council not to do its job. We even asked the government to appoint a new body. With respect to jurisdiction, at least as far as the general interest programme for the Republic of Serbia is concerned, there are projects of basic research. The minister, he can do much more, but with SANU and Matica's research programmes, it is pointless, when he has members in the council, that the minister is making them a policy and programme. In order for anyone from the Ministry to go to these people and be heard and done with them, and then we choose a massive body, and to tear it away from bureaucratism, and give it prerogatives, however we think it is formed, in a way that we would do otherwise. But let these people do something, and it would be useful to work, and that's the first task they have to do seriously, and everything else is going on on a pattern transfer to lower authority. Therefore, it should really give the minister a legal opportunity to propose the shift of these people and to appoint a new body from those people who want to work. The introduction of order in the area would not be particularly a major problem. The National Council should also make other important decisions, propose a strategy to the Minister and that the strategy is presented to the Government, so a complete strategy and research programme of particular importance. So it's a body that's been given considerable authority and not to be a purely political body, and before it seems to me that it was called in this law, it had a political definition. Therefore, we think that it should work and that it often prevents the self-will of the minister and the possibility of him making proposals on his own, no matter how competent, it is impossible for him to do so in all segments concerned by such serious action himself. We think the Accreditation Committee should introduce order and order into institutions and research organisations, put them in the right place. The criteria need to be met and after this law we won't be able to influence from here on the pay phone on the criteria. We believe that the institution of the National Council will be sufficient for that. There's something else I'd like to say about the work of the parent boards. I think they will, by law concept, be the main bearers and editors-in-chief of the field of scientific research. So, their hands should go through the projects and their assessment, evaluation of the labs, justification. That in a higher instance, when projects are submitted to a minister, or council, some kind of equilibration is done, not an absolute balance between scientific fields and disciplines, where anyone will compete. Of course, many items from the competition for the project must be attached, but we think that it will be done rationally and should take advantage of the opportunity to put it in order once and that there are no sciences and scientific fields or areas favored by budgets to develop, create and realise their ideas, without final and tangible contributions both on domestic and international terms. I think some things of that kind should end. I know the experiences from that Ivkovic commission, where really all kinds of projects went through, all kinds of judgments and impact factors, and that was extremely grounded, and there was a lot of talk back then about the impact of sanctions on both this and that. I think now we should consider the time we've been through, but we need to get serious and sharpen the criteria. One remark, by the way, that I noticed, which refers to the possibility of freedom of announcement, publication and presentation of scientific results. This law will again be based on part of the law that we had online with the previous minister in a heated debate, where he forbids interpretation, considering advertising free scientific results if they are not published at expert meetings. That doesn't mean that here freedom of publication includes media coverage of results, that's Article 7. If you take someone on TV to publish the results of some medical science institute, it'll turn out to be advertising that institute under that law. I think here as it is given, it's a better solution than what we have in the Health Protection Act. It was put there, God forbid, that a man who does something at his institute, and if he shows it to the public, he comes into college with the law. It's not like that here, and I believe it's one of the solutions that's overcome the problem, even as far as the institutes are concerned, and of course higher education institutions that can be involved in different ways in the work of scientific research organisations of the institute. When it comes to funding, it is understandable that the project financing, the specific projects and programmes, and there it is possible to be careful when approving funds for such, and especially for those fields, those segments concerning the so-called ‘. Civilian achievements, international studies, etc., where very few funds were made. And I heard upstairs on the board that we had a higher rate of gross social product that went into scientific research. Now it's small and we have to go rationally with the use of financial resources. I believe that the minister himself will, as well as the institutions that help him, try to bring it into controlled flows.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23504	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. The People's MP Ivan Zivadinovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23505	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, after all the heated debates we've had over the last ten days of our work, and on weekends and nights, we finally got this ship to some more peaceful waters. These are the laws on innovation activity, on scientific research, and two laws that probably no one can say is against, and these are laws on the SANU dictionary and the encyclopaedia law. The Innovative Labour Act should do something everyone's been talking about for the last 20 years. Serbia needs development. There is no development in one country without the development of innovation. What we, as a poor country, and we have to admit that we are poor so far, have not been able to track, which is that we invest more money in an innovative part, where that money would go back through some products into our country. This law provides for the equalisation of the private and public sectors. So, people who deal in private with this activity will not be disqualified and this law will not destroy the existing infrastructure, as some here have the custom to say, but the existing infrastructure will be maintained and development will take place. What does it matter what this law does? You've seen for yourself that for the last 15 years, we've had a major outflow of high-speed frames. In practically 90% of the cases, they were people who had left this country since the early '90s. The Innovation Action Act will allow for the employment of high-level personnel and what in transition countries, such as Serbia, has not been very transparent so far and it has not been possible, this law will allow competition. So far, there has been a huge gap between science and economy. People at institutes and colleges were quite inert, uninterested in manufacturing processes, engaged in theoretical areas, and I can say that freely because I'm a chemist. I worked in the economy, and I worked in one of the scientific research institutions. I know that in college people were quite inert, but that inertness was even higher in the economy, because people were afraid to go into some new projects, so in every factory in Serbia you have some developmental section, where some of the personnel were "squeaked", used or politically inappropriate, could be "packed". We've commonly called such offices Ford's office, because Ford used to pack up his own sleazy engineers in an office where they wouldn't do anything, and they'd get paid as if they were doing full-time and having full-time innovations, but later on, because of total impedience, they wouldn't be cashier than because people like that needed incentive to keep building something new, leave the company and move on. The law provides for the establishment of a register of innovative work for users of resources with precise criteria and provides that the innovation activity is financed up to 50%. Of course, this requires the establishment of a fund that will deal with this area and in which 987 million dinars will come from Serbia's budget in the first year. Of course, these funds will increase in the coming years and we expect them to produce good results. The Science Action Act, of course, adds to the 1993 law. We can't make any significant cuts here, but it will improve control of these scientific research institutions. Scientific advice will be formed and accreditation of these institutions will be introduced. The institutes will be organised in the Community of the Serbian Institute, and this law is modern, transitional and allows up to 49% of the institutes to be privatised, of course, with the consent of the government. The Serbian Encyclopedia and the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts Dictionary, you are all aware that these are capital works that have been waiting for years. We heard in my predecessors' statements that everyone here is calling for some encyclopedias, but I will remind you that another Vuk Karadzic, a Serbian dictionary, was issued at the beginning of the 19th century with many problems in the family, with many problems for finding funds. He had little understanding about the political elite in Serbia at the time, but you know for a fact that the dictionary was also studied by Gete, and many European scientists of that time. Practically, the dictionary opened the door to Serbia, then to the vasal country, and later to an independent country. These projects will open the door to Serbia, not in the way Vuk's dictionary did, but in a whole new way. Many have forgotten the nobleness of this people, many have forgotten the wealth of our language, the wealth of our literature, but hopefully, when these projects are over, we will have the opportunity to introduce ourselves to the world in a new routine. One of the previous colleagues noted that there are problems of non-respect for Cyrillic. I support him. Article 12 of the law on the Serb encyclopedia states that the encyclopedia will be written in Serbian and Cyrillic. It is the contribution of people who will work on this project to preserve Serbian language and Cyrillic. As you know, this encyclopedia is likely to come out in 2015. I can't wait for that to happen. It will be followed by a dictionary of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, which is not only of interest to Serbs, the Serbian state, but also to a wider area of the Balkans where this language is spoken, whatever some call it. So far, the Serbian Academy of Science and Art has reached the letter "O", and I hope that after this law, this process will go much faster. Of course, some quasidoctors of science and academics of some Russian, Ukrainian and not know what kind of academy, type Mira Markovic, Dragomir Karic, Bogoljub Karic, but I hope that in the Serbian encyclopedia under the letter Kpis - Karić Bogoljub, for 10 years in prison for counterfeiting, embezzlement, theft and theft will be, see under T, where it says - Tadic, worked together, tried to bring down the Serbian government in 2005, but failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23506	Thank you. The People's MP Nikola Todorovic has the word, followed by MP Goran Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23507	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Resort Ministry, I have just had so much time left to briefly criticize one text of the bill and this law on innovation activity. I worked in that area, I know it a lot, and I don't want to criticize what I don't know. "Innovation, within the meaning of this law, is considered a new product, process, technology, etc." In my opinion, there are no concepts, no inventions, no technical promotions, no useful idea, and I'll explain later what that means and what makes me think these concepts should be in that Article 3. So, finding, technical promotion, useful idea. Article 4 states: "In carrying out innovation, as well as using incentive measures, the private and public sectors are equal". I think that in a termological context of consistency, it should be "legal and natural persons" because you mention it already in Article 11(4). For the sake of weather consistency, it could have been "legal and physical" and it wouldn't have bothered you. In the part where the subjects involved in innovation work are missing a master, and I'll explain to you the notion of a master. It's a manufacturing worker. In a rich experience, the largest number of innovations have been done by people who do direct work in any type of work process, on a particular machine, so they make up some innovation, repairs, savings in material consumption, increase productivity on the machine, increase income, reduce costs. This is a significant innovation where the results were later shown in the process, where people, thanks to this innovation of the results achieved in the process of production, achieved large savings, applied to be admitted, to be materially verified. Often, long disputes have been conducted to collect work which is supplied on the basis of this innovation, inventions, technical improvements, etc. In that sense, I'll explain later what I mean. I'm not a master at making kegs, but I'm a master at the folk song. I don't think Article 13 of this high and high-school division is very happily done. Another brief remark, I don't insist on it, but I think it's a bad translation of "business-technical incubator". The term incubator in some other areas is related to something else. There might have been a better solution, I don't insist, but for my point, it's not very good. What is considered in Article 22, where an incubator is said to be "gathering in its composition at least three members", in the sense of this law, what is considered to be a member of that social institution you make as a system, I do not dispute anything there. What I'd like to show from my rich experience in practice, dealing with this, say, in the '80s, in a big system like RTB Bor. RTB Bor then had over 40 large working organizations, with or without basic organisations, with a large number of employees, where he processed over 500,000 tonnes of copper concentrate, domestically imported. He produced over 120,000 tons of copper, over 10,000 kilos of gold, over 120,000 pounds of silver, selenium, etc., where he had in his composition this mining part of production, the chemical industry, as "Prahovo", as "Zorka", where he had a processing industry "Sevojno", a pipe factory, a copper wire factory. One says the system. I'll tell you why I'm saying it. We wanted to teach our directors of these large systems, to organize innovations of knowledge, so at a large hotel on Lake Borski, in a hall that is approximately this big and bigger, we hire you all famous professors on certain topics, and in the field of governance and management, among other things, this topic of innovation has also been made up of technical improvements. There's been a heated debate between you and well-known and respected professors, and me and you, Stephen Han, come forward for a word, there's been a problem with technical improvement, finding, can I say something? The chairman can't wait to hear the distinguished professor and he starts like this. I'm paraphrasing, you'll remember all that material from high school, Archimedes, old Greece, came out, Eureka, I found it, and at that time in ancient Greece says -- whenever something is found, they slaughter the ox to celebrate it, so if it's a little find, a little ox, if it's a big find, a big ox. Since then, wolves don't like inventions. That's what I said so that someone wouldn't get into the controversy of what finding and what not, so there wouldn't be an awkward situation. The debate quickly ended, we all realized what the topic was, concluded us a few, a large number of executives in that part, we realized what innovation, the importance of this innovation, no one opposed it. It was a problem actually whether to admit it to a master, engineer, innovation, if he discovered it during work. It was thought that the salary was enough for a man to earn, so if he invented something revolutionary, significant, that it was enough for him to get paid and he didn't have to get anything out of it. It was wrong, it gave these young people no incentive to think, to improve the process of work, the technological process to improve, if nothing else conditions of work, protection at work, to achieve better quality, to do in terms of cost reduction, reduction of material or product functionality. It's all an innovation, and I think you miss it a little bit, you don't see that individual, and you might, because it comes down to institutions. Now, in terms of innovation, what we wrote, so I came up with a humble regulation on innovation that was then applied to the level of work organisation, basic organisations, whether they were manufacturing or professional services, etc. I have a few more minutes. Under "finding" is considered a newly created technical and technological solution that solves a particular problem. The invention is thought to have occurred or been created in that basic organization, etc. After that, maybe the man was working, so he left, so he applied for something to come up with, made up, so he asked to be charged. He left the company, and then there was a problem with it, etc. So that's what we've defined in that sense. The term "technical improvement." The technical improvement is considered to be any rationalisation of work, which is created by the use of known technical means, technological procedures at all stages of the work process achieved, and then says - an increase in income, increased labour productivity, improved quality, improved technical product control, improved protection at work, environments etc. The term - user of the proposal. The user of the proposal is considered any rational and applied solution to improve procedures, so whether it is production, maintenance of labour resources, increasing the productivity of the machine, whether it is a reduction in the consumption of material etc. We have further elaborated on this submission, when there is a useful idea, a proposal to qualify, we have determined how to submit a proposal to improve the process of work, the process of submitting solutions and processing the proposal, and the authorities that are considering and deciding on the recognition of the right to propose improvements, etc. We were talking about determining the effects of the prize. We had to if someone submitted a request, prove that he installed it in the process of work, achieved certain effects, savings, increased productivity or productivity, materialized it through the achievement of income, which is part of it, because a man working in that business did something. In order to improve the innovation activity, improve, stimulate as many people as possible to deal with this work and to be rewarded for this work, in addition to all these difficulties, vanity, wickedness, dissatisfaction, ignorance or inadequacy, we have written - and to carry out professional tasks of common interest. A master who has a good idea, discovers something, and is unable to process it technically, in the sense that he submits a request, draws it, sketches it, then we set up a service that will help him present the idea in the best way, that technical equipment, to draw if necessary, and then in that sense we even set up an activity, which we called the Founder's Active in the company, which was involved in these businesses, helped the innovators to submit the request, fought to exercise their rights, helped them to participate in the exhibition of working creation at that time, etc. All in all, I think it's a short bill, so it's short and it's a criticism, but there might be space and space to dedicate to that master, this direct enforcer, regardless of whether the chemical industry, mining, metallurgy, textiles, beer industry, milk, etc. In each process where certain technologies are used, certain procedures, certain means of work can always be found, certain innovations can be made to improve this. In that sense, I think that the lack of this proposal is, and I would like it to be arranged, for the reason that later on, some businesses, which are in this business, will pay more attention, better to regulate their rules, to regulate and thus to remove misunderstandings about the employer and the innovators in that factory, because it will be possible to refer to a certain provision of legislation where it is more precise, it is easier to achieve, and thus also to stimulate innovation, i.e. innovative work on finding technical improvements, good ideas, etc. If my criticism helped, I thank you, it's based on my humble experience in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23508	The People's Messenger Goran Ilic has the word, and let the MP Goran Davidovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23509	I would like to talk about these laws from an absolute general political aspect in the context of everyday political events and in such a way as to send a message to the citizens of what important work the government is doing today, especially this ministry that has received so much praise. It applies to one of the best ministries in this government. Is today's laws relating to science, the scientific field, the law on scientific research, innovation and the law on Serbian dictionary and Serb encyclopedia dealing with some abstract areas of our everyday reality. When you look at it from a legal-formist aspect, it can look like that, but it's absolutely the opposite. Science is not an abstract concept, science is part of our daily life, and it is these laws that bring science to the heart of our interest, with the fundamental intention of making science a basis for improving life in this country's development, economic, economic and every other, and therefore, of course, to develop and improve the standard of living of our citizens, which is about daily subject today, is not possible without developed science. It's a good example of Ireland. Ireland has invested in its education and science for years, and this has proved to be a key argument these years, motive, proof that this is the basis for the fastest economic development currently in Europe. When these laws begin their application, that is the basis for even faster economic development today, we hope so too, and for that there really are essential grounds. Is science a commodity? Not in the legal sense of that word, but science is the basis for creating value. Science enables general economic development to be established as a key element of our social life, which, of course, results in state stability, resulting in political stability, resulting in the strength of Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro, of course on the European political scene. These laws regulate in an entirely modern, Europe and world recognised way of this scientific area. This law defines the new institutes, such as the National Council, the Accreditation Committee, the Scientific Calls Committee, the Institute's community, the new role of the ministry and, especially what the Minister pointed out, the parent scientific committees, which carry the highest number of powers and who will be the bearers of these scientific thoughts, because they are people who are best known to some scientific area and are in the field of science. With the Ministry leaving as one of the technocrats that makes co-ordination, but the concern of science will be brought down to the level of the parent scientific committees, whose members will be the people who are dealing with a particular area. For example. in medicine, since I'm a doctor, I know very well when medicine is taken care of by doctors, who have scientific callings, confirm in their scientific work, that it's the best way to arrange this area. What's especially good is that in a very systematic way, the area of funding is arranged. We know that the sciences without money are gone and that's the condition that the money comes back later and I think the undivided consent that this law has arranged it properly. What's said to be a projection, that the elements adopted as European standards, that's about 1% out of the budget, with 2% coming out of the economy, and that this could certainly be done at a long-term level as an accelerated development of science. As far as the law on innovation activity is concerned, it's also a very important element relating to funding, and it's agreed and analogous to what I said about scientific research, it's that part of the money will be returned to researchers. This is again the condition that in one interaction of development, on the one hand, the creation of new values, the creation of a financial effect, this financial element is put into investment in both areas that these laws regulate, which is the condition that we have modern and efficient science. Of course, I would stress that it is simply in full agreement with the government's policy trend, which is joining the European Union, of course now the process of association and stabilisation. Accepting these European standards absolutely makes these laws European, modern laws. When we talk about this European aspect of these two laws, it is a dictionary of the Serbian language and the law on the Serb encyclopedia, I would like to stress a significant political position. National and scientific thought can certainly come together and that's no problem at all. If this were to be interpreted in a malicious way, some unfavourable atmosphere would be created. Here I would like to stress that the national and scientific ideas are absolutely in agreement and because Europe and the world are multicultural and expect us to study our language and certainly create our encyclopedia, to be part of European heritage, as are all the values of Serbian and other peoples living with us, part of European heritage. So, Europe is not a cultural one, Europe is not a new instant culture, Europe is a set, a multitude of national cultures, and, of course, in that sense, the law on the Serbian dictionary and the Serbian encyclopedia was absolutely necessary. The Romans said, the people need bread and games, and the Democratic Party of Serbia says to the Serbian people and all other peoples who live with us they need science like bread, because without science there is no normal and good life, so there is no bread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23510	The word is by MP Goran Davidovic, the last to be reported on the lists.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23511	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the link between social development and knowledge is particularly visible in the last decades of the 20th century. The successful future today relates to a society of knowledge, a society that marks the culture of knowledge and the economy of knowledge. When I say the knowledge economy, I mean to produce new knowledge and competed with the global knowledge market. This trend depends on knowledge, its promotion and expansion, and acceptance is accelerated and becomes a key point of the future. Science, as an area where new knowledge is created, is a central driver of development, a work that enables social needs to be met, especially those in the field of work and the general quality of life. Knowledge and accompanying technological solutions are today a fundamental resource on which social well-being rests. The growth of prosperity, in other words, is based on people, scientists, who create and apply new knowledge and transfer it to future generations. By creating new products, processes and services, scientific work promotes employment and the development of the country. The fact that most of the new jobs today are related to the high technology sector has spread the former fear that scientific development and new technologies will lead to job cuts. Building a creative innovation society in Serbia, in line with Europe's new development and technological paradigm, is a major developmental challenge and imperative. The Serbian nation has entered the process of stabilising and joining the European Union, which is certainly due to the government, and Serbian firms should enter the networks formed by European firms. This is the best way to shorten the path to the European Union, find European niches with products and services, in which the content of high-quality work or knowledge is significant, to restructure Serbia's economy and strengthen its development potential. This implies that a European development form, characterised by the diversification of offers through technological innovation, diversification and individualisation of demand, the diversity of consumption, the intellectualisation of production processes and the content of products and services. The aim of the law on scientific research is to reform the network of research organisations, strengthen the role of the scientific public and reduce the role of the ministry. The law on the Serbian Academy of Science and Art will finally create an institutional framework for permanent work on this important national document, and by adopting the law on the Serb encyclopedia, we create a legal framework for the formation of a kind of lexiographic institution, bodies that would be involved in making ten volumes of the Serbian encyclopedia over the next ten years. In this way, we create an organisational infrastructure that enables the creation of conditions for the development of an innovative society, in which globally competent scientific, research and development activities, through the production of world-renowned results, achieve visible results applied in local and regional development, and thus the whole of the country. Serbia, as a European country seeking to reach a medium and high level of income, should be effective in the competitiveness strategy based on innovation. Accepting a new concept of creating and maintaining competitive advantages based on scientific knowledge and technological development of all development actors allows research and technological intensive production and services to develop in Serbia's manufacturing structure. By applying such a development concept, Serbia would overcome the current concept of competitiveness based on the use of comparative advantages in cheap and less qualified work, natural resources and geographical position. Increasing the competitiveness of the real and financial sector of Serbia's economy and public sector competence is the basis of national prosperity, for which we certainly need the knowledge that comes from Serbian science, for which the framework also gives us today's laws. In the law of innovation work, we have followed the world standards that follow this area to encourage innovation work. We recognise and record the personnel and infrastructure potential, project records and results achieved by registering in the innovation activity register. So, in addition to the spatial layout of this potential, we also prevent the duplication of capacities and projects, which is the most important way to easily monitor the degree of progress in this area. In this way we get to know the public that these activities will not be exclusively the right of the institute and university, they will be able to deal with legal persons, public and private, with certain conditions. This law specifically defines organisations for the operation of innovation activities, such as: development and production, research and development centres and innovation centres. This creates conditions for individuals with the necessary qualifications and programmes to be joined into smaller organisational continents that provide them with scientific, research and development and innovation work. This way of organising gives individuals, businesses, regions and local self-government a chance to form their own organisational forms that will carry out scientific research, development and innovation activities. We have achieved a double effect: we have made it possible to disperse scientific, research, innovation potential across the entire territory of the country, and on the other hand this knowledge is applied to increase productivity and competitiveness. Through development and production centres, research and development centres and innovation centres, we respond well to the challenges that time puts before us. The basic objectives that we achieve in this way are organised and lasting collection of available knowledge, then organized creation of new knowledge, increasing the capacity to absorb knowledge, improving communication infrastructure to make it more effective and efficient to exchange knowledge and finding effective organisational models in the application of acquired knowledge. The strategic documents of developed countries highlight the importance of science and education at all levels and the basic messages that we can carry out and which are derived from them are: to develop educational programmes that encourage the mastery of basic categories of natural and social sciences; to increase the quality, flexibility and efficiency of higher education; to improve the mobility of highly educated young people, especially in relation to science-state; to provide assistance for post doctoral employment; to organise structurally reformed basic, postgraduate and doctoral studies by increasing the effectiveness of study and education, but of course in favour of science; to inform and educate the public in order to understand the benefits and importance of knowledge and science; and, of course, to increase transparency and social impact of scientific work. I think that Serbian science and education are able to meet these needs and that a resolute ministry -- whose minister is sitting here today, and who is indeed professionally and personally confirming everything I have said today -- in collaboration with other ministries, can successfully realise the necessary reforms, in order to make science competitiveness and development, and above all, to place knowledge as a lever of Serbia's European perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23512	Thank you, Mr. Davidovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used the right to speak? No, I don't. Does the Minister want the word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Serbian People's Representatives, first of all, I want to, and there were 19 debaters, I have listened very carefully to thank everyone for the correct and extremely constructive debate. There have been several topics that have appeared in one way or another with almost every debater. Of course, more funding needs to be made for scientific research from the budget. Since the various figures were mentioned, let me say, we are currently at 0.4% of the gross social product from the budget, about 1.2% of the budget. The target of EU countries in 2010 is - 1% of the budget and 2% more from the economy, a total of 3%. We were close to one percent of the gross social product budget during Mr. Unkovic's ministry. Of course, the country was under sanctions, it's hard to compare budgets. But what mathematics is saying, then we really had, as far as the percentage of gross social product is concerned, a high investment, and that needs to be made public and clear. It's necessary, on the one hand, to invest more from the budget, and that's quite true. On the other hand, it is necessary to intensify, and much is said about this, the relationship between science and economy. What is, unfortunately, today's fact, is that these relationships are pretty weak, that the economy is in pretty bad shape, that even those people who have businesses, money for investment, invest rather in trade, so the couples turn faster than they want to invest in scientific research, where the result, and even the return of money invested, in the extreme line, is uncertain. There are positive examples of the relationship between science and economy in Serbia. There is the Pupin Institute that makes the best toll collection devices in Europe. There is an Institute for War and Vrvatting from Novi Sad which is the world's significance of the seed manufacturer of the most diverse cultures. There is an Institute of Chemistry, Technology and Metalurgy from Belgrade, whose experts have created an insecticide that still sprays mosquitoes in Belgrade today. Hundreds of thousands of euros in Belgrade saves annually because it does not buy foreign insecticide. It's just a price difference. So there are good examples, but there is also a good part of those branches of science that can seek financial gain as a result of the application of scientific research. Unfortunately, they haven't found the right way to connect to the economy. What we need to intensify these links, not only here, but also promote, as a state, the applicable results of our scientists abroad. Every dinar or euro brought from abroad is a dinar less than from the Serbian budget and a dinar more for those branches of science that each serious state needs, of which it can't really be expected to take on the market. I mean history, ethnology, musicology. Every serious state, if it wants not to lose its identity, must have and must invest in such sciences. It's mentioned a lot of times the word "rationalization." We need rationalization, not rationalization in terms of layoffs, but a reduction in the formal network of scientific research organisations, a more rational use of the equipment that exists, here in any case -- yes. As far as privatisation is concerned, the ministry's position, while I'm at its head, has no privatisation of more than 50% of science institutes in Serbia. We have bad experience, and under the law of the 1990s, when some institutes are privatized, so the state has no control over them anymore, and with the privatisation of some companies, which contained scientific research organisations. These research organisations, which were part of companies, which were privatised after 2000, no longer exist. This ministry has made a request to the Ministry of Economy for the exemption from the privatisation of every research organisation that is now privatised by companies. So we will defend the right of scientists to scientific work against privatisation. Finally, implementation; it is often mentioned that a major problem will be law enforcement. That problem always exists and will always exist. The ministry will do everything, as it has done everything to make bill proposals, which we think match Serbia's current opportunities and EU standards. We've done everything to make laws that are realistic in this country enforceable. So we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that none of this stuff that's written here stays a dead letter on paper. Now you will allow me very briefly to respond to the individual remarks that have been heard. I'll take my turn. It's been said that we have 3,500 researchers at the institutes, 2,000 in colleges, which we finance. No, we have about 8,500 researchers that we're funding and about two-thirds of them are in colleges, and one third is in institutes. That the number of jobs behind us is only Turkey. We're not that bad. This year, I expect that for the first time in 15 years, we will be in front of Croatia, according to the number of works published in internationally recognised magazines. Next year, our target is EU countries. So, the number of papers is growing, the quality of Serbian science growing year after year. There's an incubator in the Book. It doesn't exist just in Nis. What's the point of the problem is that so far, because of the lack of law that regulated incubators and technology parks, there was no way to influence, there was no way to fund them. Should innovation centres be financed? We'll all agree we should. Has there been any legal basis so far? No, it's not, and then you know you have to do something, and you don't have the law that allows you to do it. Of course, there are many questions that time will give an answer, and time will show what is better and what is a worse solution. Very often there are no simple truths. Why does the strategy bring the government, and not parliament, why for ten years, it's a matter that we can talk about, we can argue or not argue, but I hope that tomorrow we meet on the board of 10.30 hours, call on all those MPs who have had objections, whether they have made amendments or not, I call tomorrow at 10:30 a session of the Science and Technology Committee, to discuss once more the problems that have arisen. The ministry determines all programmes in Article 10, except for the SANU and Mother Serbian science programmes, everything else is determined by us. Should the Ministry be in more than six places in Article 11? Probably should. The National Council, what and how big? The ministry is ready to accept an amendment that will go towards reducing the number of members, but we have six scientific areas that are defined in one of the members of the law, and when you respect the need for institutes and universities, or colleges to give equal numbers of people to the national council, so as not to create imbalances, when you have in mind the fact that scientific areas should be equally represented, because any imbalance could harm the interests of certain scientific areas, then you get to 12. This must be attended by the SANU mentioned here, and we all agree on that. A certain organization, I mean the Vojvodjan Academy and Art, so-called, and for me, such an organization does not exist as a minister. While I'm a minister, such an organization will not be financed by the ministry. There's only one SANU and she's got her own department in Novi Sad and that's all. So when you add to the Matica Academy of Serbia, you already come to 15, but I think we can easily agree on reducing the number of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. Should the ministry take over some of the roles given by this national council law? That's the thing we need to talk about. As for the criticism of this law, it went in two directions. So, that perhaps decentralisation, and ideologically as right-wing in decentralisation, I believe that perhaps in the Law on Scientific Action, decentralisation is too large, and that the Law on Innovation Work is given too great a role as a minister. Believe me, I really don't want to take too many roles. I don't believe history starts from my childhood, we've done everything we thought in these proposals that it's possible to get a system where the expert public will listen as much as possible, where the Ministry will be as much of a technocrat organ as possible, and where the system we're going to do, we're going to allow decisions to be made relatively quickly and there's no chaos. That's the thing we need to talk about tomorrow. That there will be resistance and decentralisation and law enforcement, we are absolutely aware of that. The law won't get any space in the media, said Mr. Zarko Obradovic, we'll see, I'm afraid so will be. For the development strategy to work, it's done. This ministry will not wait, because the national council, which should propose a strategy to develop scientific and research action, will not wait for the development strategy to be done. So we're going to suggest what we think should be a strategy of scientific and research activity in this country. The law there is not too hard, whether ten or five years, is ten, but it opens up the possibility that the strategy will be completed over time. So, I don't think there's any fear that it's hard to predict what's gonna happen in ten years? Yeah, but they'll be able to do it, and the law predicts it, different do-overs. Why the name, the word about SANU, as it is, technically I could say, that's the deal with SANU, which initiated solving the problem of making dictionaries this way. What is also the fact that this dictionary, when it started to work, was well done as a dictionary of the Serbian-Croatian language, and there is no clear language. We speak Serbian, therefore, if it were called the Serbian language dictionary, we would have a problem, because we would have to do it all over again. We can talk about this being a Serbian dictionary law. So that's the thing about which I think we can make some kind of deal tomorrow on the board. Who can be the founder? We allow here the possibility that the founders of scientific research organisations, so first of all, we're talking about institutes here, can also be physical faces. You de facto now have a situation to have private colleges, which, even if they pass this accreditation system, just because they're colleges, can be registered as scientific research organisations. I think it is in the interest not only of this government, in the interest of Serbia, of every government in this country to demethropolise Serbia. I believe that the metropolis of Serbia is slowly choking. If there is a local self-government tomorrow that wants to establish a scientific institute on its territory, it will have every possible support from this ministry. To be clear, for projects, everyone can compete, there is absolute freedom of scientific work in this country, but the state will invest in equipment, in the building, only in those institutes where it is the founder. Anyone can go and build an institute, they can make local self-government units, and I'd be very happy to see that, but they'll have to finance them, except for the project money, where everyone can generally compete with the ministry, the ones who make them, just like the so-called. The Duke's Academy of Science and Art. The participation of the institute in higher education. That's a painful problem. We, as a ministry, think and believe that it is necessary that all those people who work in scientific institutes and who are highly educated should find their place in the transfer of knowledge to younger generations. We are not a rich enough country to leave these people out of education, out of the higher education system, because this is primarily a Belgrade problem and this is primarily a problem that needs to be solved by the University of Belgrade with its statute. It is mentioned that the criteria of some amendments should be tightened, and I fully agree with that, that what is called the center of excellence in this draft, it is a rather obnoxious translation, that it is necessary to complete some criteria regarding their registration, and there is every idea welcome. That 20% of the technical staff is small; it's a dam. It's a dam for those who have too much. Of course, we as a ministry will be extremely flexible and evaluate from case to case, that 22, 25 or 35%, for those who really need it, will be no problem for us. Are we too late with these laws or not? My smallness has been the minister for a little over a year and a half, not a campaign of falsifying history for my vaccine, it's started much earlier, whether those who were in this place before me, not only since 2000, but before 2000, have done everything they could, it's a question for them. The suspicions of honest intentions have been expressed. The intentions are indeed extremely sincere, I think the time of these doubts will drive you away or confirm it. That it is necessary to establish the percentage of gross social product in the strategy instead of the percentage of budgetary allocations and I can agree with that. Penalty-Imperative provisions are partly and have, in part, come from other laws, because these are laws that regulate a very specific area. I've already said something about privatisation. Is there confusion in the law on innovation activity between Article 5 and Article 11. I think Article 5 says that, among other things, the carriers of innovation work are, so now it lists, and entrepreneurs. Of course, as Mr. Todorovic said, the masters here have their place, because, they come up with some innovation, but their realization will always go through some business society, they will never, alone as individuals, realize it. It may be their own company, but it will still be some legal person. I fully agree with the remarks for the administrative good of the Innovation Fund, for Article 45, that it is necessary to mention the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Is there too little incentive in article 51 of this law? This is the first time you've ever done a law like this. Personally, I would be happy that in the good and bad experiences of this law on innovation activity in two or three years, I don't have to be a minister then, it can be someone else, it can make a new law that will organise this area better. It's the first time you've done this. We will see which will be both good and bad experience of applying this law. There'll certainly be both. There have been different comments whether the national council, and we are talking about the law on scientific research, should be proposed by the Assembly or the Government. There were MPs from the same parliamentary group who had some different views on the matter. That dilemma always exists. There's no absolute truth. Six areas of science have been said to be undefined, and defined in Article 13, at the end of Article 13, they are quite precisely defined. What happens if we don't build a community of the Serbian Institute. The community already exists. At one point, it was said, among other things, that too many different bodies are foreseen here. All of them, except for the accreditation board, already exist in one way or another. There is a ministry, so de facto there is a community of the Serbian Institute, and now for the first time it gets legally relevant. There are commissions at the Ministry that were formed by a sublaw. We now give the parent committees much more weight. The only thing that doesn't exist at this point is the accreditation committees, but accreditation, given the large number of institutions and the explosions of colleges and universities, is unfortunately necessary. Otherwise, if we let it go and say it, everyone can do science without any criteria, then we really have a huge problem. Not only the budgetary problem, it's the smallest problem, we have a strategic problem, we have an ideological problem, that in this country everything will be able to be sold as a science. So these and these laws, and I'm talking about the law on scientific research, the law on innovation, will not make any significant new budget costs. The community of the institute is also formed by this law, and in fact this law gives it both a place and a strength because it needs a partner. It takes someone to channel the interests of the institute. There are university conferences, and often colleges and institutes have some different interests. This ministry, as a science ministry, must not make decisions to harm either one or the other. As far as the law on the Serbian encyclopedia is concerned, why is the publisher of the Institute for textbooks and teaching tools. Because it's a state publishing house. This house is state-owned and will remain state-owned, we must not leave the issue of such an important capital and national part in any way other than the state. The choice of experts, and yet I'm talking about the encyclopaedia law, will be carried out by the editorial board. The patent, a small patent, is all about intellectual property, everything is at the level of the Serbia-Montenegro community. This law neither intended to regulate the area nor this ministry and this government have the legal right to regulate the area at the republic's level, at Member State level. The objections to Article 39 and Article 60 are quite correct. I have already said something about objections, and these were remarks by Mr. Veselinović on the law on innovation work, where it is said that too much space was given to the minister, for example, that the development committee should be drawn up on the proposal of the innovation worker. There's too many of them. Let's see tomorrow on the board if that's operationally possible. If it's operationally possible, I'm overjoyed to have one job and one less problem in my life. Let's see, unlike the law on scientific research, where we have institutes that have been established and we have universities and the queen herself, so things are pretty simple, here the system isn't so well arranged. There's a lot of associations and associations of people who do innovation work, and there's a lot of people who are out of it. If we don't know what we're going to do and how we're going to do. Noting that in Article 11 of the Law on Scientific Action, there are too many institutions I have answered. The point of specific projects is not to be projects where foreigners and NGOs are going to carry development, but it's a completely opposite thing, because the purpose of it was for the state to define what it needs, what projects are of national interest, when they define that it engages in scientific research organisations that these projects for the state are going to do. Whether it'll be projects from the economy, and it's mentioned here at a pay phone in another area, and that's the thing to see. There's an objection to translation and a business-technological incubator, so let's see if there's any better. It's not at all a dispute, we're quite open to talking. I tried as quickly as possible to respond to almost all the objections that were made. How's Serbian science today? After a year and a half at the minister's post, I think I can say that she's great, given everything this country has been through, and especially in the last decade, she's been through. Its quality is not due to the work of either the ministry or the minister, but to all those great people who today are engaged in science in Serbia. I believe science is the best or one of the best parts of Serbian society. I believe that science is able to lift certain segments of the Serbian economy. I want to thank all MPs once again for a truly correct debate. I think it's been seen that we all want both stronger and better and more effective science. The aim of the law on scientific research is to make science so. The fact is that such science can also go through innovation, but not only through innovation to help the Serbian economy. Mr. Vesenovic said at one point that he hoped that this work and effort would not be in vain. I'll do anything, as Minister, to make sure he doesn't. As I believe the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will vote on the law on scientific research and innovation, I believe the law on the Serbian encyclopedia and the law on the SANU dictionary will also be passed. I believe these two big projects, and as long as they last and when they're finished, will serve this high house honor. Thank you for finding each other more similarities today than differences. As Minister of Government, and not only as Minister of Government, as a Serb, I would like that to happen much more often. I know and believe that if not all of us, if not all of us at every moment of our lives, that our children will never ask the question of who Grigorija Bozovic was, who was Dragisa Vasic, or who was Vladimir Corovic, they are all mentioned today, because in the end, Serbia is above all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-29-0.u23514	Thank you, Mr Popovic, and for this confidence we all share for the citizens of Serbia. After we have completed the debate, I conclude a joint principled search on the proposal for a law on innovation activity, a proposal for a law on scientific research, a proposal for a law on the Serbian Encyclopedia and a proposal for a law on the SAAN dictionary. As we have said, we continue to work tomorrow at 10.00 hours with a single debate on the 5th agenda, a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy. Thank you and good-bye.
