ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18705	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I invite you to pay our respects to Ivan Dejanovic and Aleksandr Stankovic, Serbian youth victims of Albanian terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, for a minute of silence. (All present stand up and pay their respects for a minute's silence. God rest their soul. (All those present say, "God, that their soul may be free. ") Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, we have a quorum to start work. There are 87 MPs present in the hall, in any case more than one third of the MPs and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I have been informed that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Dusan Mrvos and Marko Djurisic. We're continuing our work. We move on to a search in detail on item 2 of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radio-Difusion. Before we continue our work, we'll take a half-hour break. I ask that the Legislative Committee meet during this half-hour break and, at the initiative of the President of the Assembly, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija. I'm taking a break until 10:30. [[After break – 12.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the Legislative Committee has finished the job, in a few seconds we will begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. At the end of the board, we'll continue the session. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the RADIO-DIFUSION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the bill, as well as by the MPs: Dusan Petrovic, Vukosav Tomašević, Aleksandar Lazarevic and Predrag Marković. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Vukosav Tomašević withdrew the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Ambassador Dusan Petrovic did not submit to Article 2 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here's a word from MP Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18707	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, the head of the DS parliamentary group, Boris Tadic, Dusan Petrovic, has submitted an amendment to Article 2 by which this member of the amendment and addition of the Law on Broadcasting is deleted. The proposed member shall be deprived of the right of a member of the Council elected on a proposal from the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina to decide on the territory of the province. The existing legal solution was the result, firstly, of a political agreement between the republican and provincial authorities reached before the 2002 law was passed, or a compromise when the province's authorities gave up a special Vojvodina regulatory body. And the unilateral gazing of a political agreement, followed by the Assembly in 2002, creates a potential political problem, ignores the fact that in Vojvodina and the Serbian Constitution, competences in the field of public information have been recognised and that there is an extreme lack of understanding for the realisticly different problems that Vojvodina, as a multiethnic environment, has. The fact that a member of the Council, elected on a proposal from Vojvodina, can veto the most urgent work that stands before the council, is to adopt a strategy for the development of broadcasting, does not justify such urgent changes to the law, without public debate and without consulting with the other party in a political agreement reached three years ago. Namely, the strategy of radio-distribution development is such an important document that it must, otherwise, be based on the broadest consensus, both for all members of the council individually and for other interested entities. This assembly, or the Committee on Culture and Information, also received a letter from the Committee on Information of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, in which the first conclusion of this committee in the Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina was that the Committee for Informing the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, respecting the degree of development of radio-difusion and specific needs, does not consider that it is necessary to amend the provisions of Article 32(3). Radio-diffusion law. It is unacceptable to explain to the applicant the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio-Difusion that this right can be applied to all decisions of the Council concerning the whole of the Republic, as this is not laid down in the law. In the event of an amendment to Article 32(3), The Law on Radio Diffusion is necessary to define more precisely the existing power in the sense that a member of the Council of the AP Vojvodina has the right to propose a review or reconsideration of decisions exclusively relating to the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, which it did not agree with in its first decision. I'm afraid we haven't learned any lessons -- neither as the Serbian Assembly nor as responsible people in politics -- from a centralisation that was conducted in the beginning of the last decade. Our disaster began with the idea of universal centralization of everything in existence, as well as attempts at majorization. So the Vojvodina has its specifics. So there's a program in multiple languages, it's going to own its own broadcasting facility, RT Novi Sad, or a broadcasting facility in Vojvodina. So there are many reasons that this member of the council could, in some ways, stop some decisions that would not be in line with what is the majority mood in the AP Vojvodina. Perhaps, as regards lawyers who object that one of the members of the Radio-Difusing Council could not have greater rights, the right solution was, I also said in the principle debate, that a number of issues were raised, that changes and additions provided for a number of issues concerning the development strategy of radio-diffusion and, in particular, concerning radio-difusion in Vojvodina territory, these decisions would have to be made by consensus. In this situation, no one would be privileged to have the right to veto, yet some decisions, concerning the development of radio-difusion strategies and, in particular, the operation of radio-difusion on the territory of Vojvodina, would prevent majorisation in this case. Not to take too much time to my MP group, because someone else will answer, there was a misunderstanding when I mentioned Milan Groll, I couldn't replicate my esteemed colleague, who in time wrote that they were indeed decentralisation, and even the federalization of a country's only rights to defend every separatism. Because if you don't majorise on someone, if you don't take away some rights and some duties and obligations they can perform at that level, whether it's the level of local self-government, whether it's the level of the Autonomous Region, there's no reason to oppose the centre or the central state, but there's absolutely no reason to act against their own state. Of course, some say that the thesis is wrong because the federal Yugoslavia has fallen apart. Of course true federalism was not possible in the Balkan spaces and it was false decentralisation and false federalism, because it was all under the foot of the CKKKJ. So today those who advocate the centralization of everything that exists cannot actually free themselves from the communist heritage in their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18708	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirovic. Does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18709	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, parties and a parliamentary group that has the name of the President of the Republic must not submit such an amendment. I accept that you were able to do this until, with the support of the DSS, you got from your party the President of the Republic. But now such autonomous tyranny from the party of the President of the Republic of Serbia, and not the President of the Republic of Vojvodina, I really didn't expect it. I thought that once you've suffered defeat, that you're doing an analysis, so you can figure out why this defeat occurred, and not you're still going on and you're making me come out, to attack what a party who is apparently in this opposition is proposing, but the SRS programme and what is happening in Serbia right now, or what might happen, makes me ask the National Assembly not to accept this amendment at all. Not only from the point of view of achieving the rights of every citizen of Serbia, but also from the rights of members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council to all have the same right and one vote, but also from the point of view of common sense. What it means to potential Vojvodina as a space with more languages, more nations, more faith, that's Serbia. Serbia is a space with more nations, more faith, more languages. Why don't you tell Sainta now, why don't you move on, closer? We are making Serbia a society where everyone will be able to achieve all their ambitions, all of their rights, a society in which all the rights guaranteed by the Framework Convention on Minority Rights have long been overcome, and we want to keep going, and don't put it just in Vojvodina now, so it turns out that it doesn't matter in Serbia, it's only in Vojvodina. No, at every rate of the Republic of Serbia, it is important for us that everyone can exercise his rights. I don't see why this guardian of the Vojvodina seal would be so ready and safe that it depends on his will whether the Council makes any kind of decision regarding the geographical concept of Vojvodina, because I don't believe that you consider Vojvodina a federal unit in Serbia's membership or don't give God to the state. Don't insist on the specialities of the Vojvodina anymore, because if everyone starts insisting on their specialities, then not only will the Federation not be able to survive but it won't survive this republic either. That idea cannot be accepted in Vojvodina either. I don't know why you're falling. I don't know where it's going. Why didn't you just shut up about the suspension, the abolition of what you've been providing on paper to a member of the Vojvodina Council? You know very well, at the time of your harassing Serbia, there was this article 32, but you never applied it. Or maybe there's some session of the Broadcasting Agency Council, where a representative of the Vojvodina said this can't happen without my consent, and for this you need my consent, and I don't give consent. Just imagine when you have a body that controls something in the whole Republic, and one member of that body can say, I'm not giving this. Where's your sense of practicality if you've lost track of what the Republic of Serbia has to do. So we'll be against this amendment, and it would be good if you gave up, too, because this is a waterhouse. I understand the Democratic Party's desire to present itself as being the only party opposed to everyone else. But if everyone else thinks something good, I don't recommend that you want something bad just to be on the other side. This is a very bad amendment, bringing us back to times that have been forgotten, in times of conflict. It is possible that you will now, in the fate of this amendment, make conflicts in Vojvodina, so that you may attract one part of the electoral body in Vojvodina that someone has not already taken away from you - it is possible. But from a far-reaching point of view, from the point of view that the president of your party is the president of the Republic of Serbia, not the president of the AP Vojvodina, I am asking you, and I have always had some affection for the parties in decline, to withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18710	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. According to the same amendment, the word has been given by MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18711	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a significant political issue, and on one seemingly technical standard, the political views of all the political parties in this House are clearly showing. The deep belief of the Democratic Party is that only essential decentralisation will strengthen the state of Serbia. This belief is based, of course, on our political premises, but it is also based on the tragic experience Serbia has had in the last 10 years of the 20th century. The inability of those who managed Serbia to take a good look at state interests, the inability of those who managed Serbia to, by giving authority, strengthen the state, create probably the most centralised state in Europe, among other things, with the inability to make good concrete decisions, led to Serbia ending the 20th century with a territorial, state, moral, financial, and whatever losses you want and spilling what has been gained in the last 200 years. decentralisation isn't just an empty political term. Decentralisation must be filled with content. In Serbia there are AP Vojvodina, in Serbia there are municipalities and cities. If they do not have a fundamental competence in different issues, and in matters that are important to citizens and which they consider important, there is no decentralisation either. And in the next constitution, decentralisation will be, in my deep conviction, the most important question. If we manage to redistribute jurisdiction in a good way, which will say power, then we will create a good foundation for Serbia to be a strong state in the 21st century. And get back to this particular question. There is one special regime in the existing Vojvodina law. The member of the Council elected by this Parliament, therefore not being elected in any other way but by most MPs in this assembly, has one specific authority to exclude his opinion in those issues concerning the resolution of all those issues which may come to the agenda, and are related to Vojvodina, and to prevent such a decision from being taken. It is, according to the Democratic Party, one of the elements of decentralisation and essential competences. It is not enough just to say that we will give autonomy or that we will be in favour of decentralisation, but in any case we need to make decisions that support this thesis and this attitude. So, regardless of what it is obvious that the Democratic Party is the only one in this assembly who believes that the AP Vojvodina and the Vojvodina representative should have special authority for jurisdiction or for topics related to radio-difusion and are related to the Province of Vojvodina, of course we will not deviate from that position. In the next elections, I am sure, we will get full confirmation that decentralisation, when it comes to Vojvodina and when it comes to Belgrade, when it comes to Nis, when it comes to Bujanovac, is the right thing for Serbia, because people want to decide on their rights. This is the philosophical position of the Democratic Party. This is a practical policy of the Democratic Party. This is what we want to make everyday life in Serbia. As for the downfall, how We see those who fail, who win, and who lose. The Democratic Party won all elections in 2004. As far as I can see, and I am rarely wrong, there will be very soon parliamentary emergency elections here, and I am sure after that we will have a real democratic government, which will be able to quickly introduce Serbian citizens into the European Union in a decentralised Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18712	Thank you. The word is Mr. Wolf, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18713	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS was the first political organization whose representatives in the Committee on Culture and Information pointed to the unconstitutional nature of the veto provision of the Vojvodina representative, and I must say that this has nothing to do with the decentralisation that is being discussed here. Absolutely nothing, because the forms of territorial autonomy have nothing to do with local self-government and what you call decentralisation in the world. You can talk, as Radomir Lukic says, about the relationship between central and non-central authorities, but the issue of federal units, or territorial autonomy, absolutely nothing in legal theory and practice has anything to do with decentralisation. So, behind the notion of decentralisation, there is one attempt to gain political points cheaply, in which the Democratic Party turns out to be the protector of minority interests, the interests of members of national minorities and other minority groups, and everyone else, of course, is something against minority members. In the end, say it openly, say it clearly if you mean it and say what their rights are at risk of. And this is a threat to the functioning of the system in general, a threat to the country as a whole, and nobody gets anything. And don't talk about decentralisation, because this is about a Milutin Karadzic, or whatever his name is, I know that his name is Karadzic, one famous non-autonomous but prominent separatist, a man who made the worst TV program against all the DS political opponents, getting the opportunity to veto what someone in Serbia could decide. And you'd like to say that only DS can appear here and here, on television, like you have on TV today on Novi Sad, where you can do whatever you want on the territory of Vojvodina. If it is not approved by Bojan Pajtic or I don't know, Bogoljub Karic, or Canak, or Kasa, it can't appear on that television. And that's what Karadzic will tell us tomorrow -- we don't like the program and those TVs, don't show up on TV broadcast in Vojvodina. That's the whole story. Let go of the hollow and empty story you're spreading here about decentralisation. What does Karadzic have to do with decentralisation? Except that he stole as much money as he got there in Novi Sad, his only job was how and how to shut down the media scene completely and nothing else. It's the only story. To open up the cards completely, not to tell empty stories about decentralisation and how people's rights are threatened and so forth. And that's against the constitution. Now, we're interested in how the party of the President of the Republic can advocate something which is obviously against the constitution, which is in direct contrast to the country's highest legal act. You're talking about it multinationally, multi-confessionally, multi-culturally, so it is, that's Belgrade. In Belgrade today, you have more minority groups than you have in Vojvodina. Shall we do the same for Belgrade? Will we do the same for the south of central Serbia? Is that what we're going to give to the Rasca area? What's your difference? Is that your principle? If that's it, then I'm sorry, I love Belgrade most in the world, but I don't want it to be a state. My country is Serbia and the state of each of us is Serbia, not Vojvodina. That's the key difference. Because this is a matter of state, not decentralisation. Because, I'm sorry, nobody in Vojvodina felt like a question of decentralisation -- whether there's going to be a Karadzic there to decide whether he likes the programme or whether he likes it or not. Well, you're talking about public service and how citizens pay. It's the most radical in Vojvodina. When did you see that someone posted something on the radicals on TV Novi Sad? Here, believe it or not, I've been a minister for two years, and I've never been on TV in my life. (Glass: What about Toma Nikolic? I think it's Thomas Nikolic once. You can't go to TV Novi Sad because it's being held by autonomists and separatists, who are so worried about the interests of the people, and it's the most radical in Vojvodina. Did we get the most votes? We did. So, who are you representing? Who do the media represent? What are you talking about? And we keep our mouths shut here. We are silent not to raise tension, to let go of everything, to protect our country, not to worry much, and you come out and invite people about to rebel - e, the citizens of Vojvodina, they want to take something from you. So what do we want to take? Whomever he wants to take, when we in Vojvodina have the widest and greatest support. In that part of Serbia, we have the largest and widest support. What do we do? What about Belgrade then? What about other parts of Serbia? Will every subbuy look for something for himself? So little is how much money comes for that ELP pump, 500 thousand euros, give it even more autonomy that it doesn't even have to match who it took 500 thousand euros. And the whole town knows that, but you just don't know, you have to keep quiet about it, you don't know who it is. It's not Bogdanovic here. Others are at stake. They're his, but he's not very directly involved. He knows who I mean, but we're waiting to get our hands on the paper, so you can see how it's done and what it's doing. The whole story is very transparent, very clear. It's not about philosophy, it's about how someone says it, not some great historical principle, and I don't know what else. No, I don't. This is a matter of pure interest. That Karadzic is a man of Nenad Canka and DS. The Karadzic was supposed to serve to provide them with full dominance in the interior of Vojvodina and that was his only purpose, along with a small amount of money. How much can be stolen for how this one, the other, third license, the militia one, to control the local media, which will get a frequency permit at Vojvodina level, and that's the only thing. And to be clear, it has nothing to do with decentralisation, it has nothing to do with the citizens of Vojvodina. It has absolutely nothing to do with anyone's interests except personal and party interests. To make it absolutely clear to every citizen of this country. But one more thing. What you're doing here is you want to show that someone in Serbia doesn't care about minorities, that someone doesn't care about other nations, whether it's Hungarians, Romanians, Slovaks, Russians, Ukrainians, whoever you want. Please come out and tell me who did something or even said it against any member of any national minority. Bogdanovic, don't whisper there but come out for the pay phone and say it. He knows Bogdanovic that I was telling the truth. So you're doing business here against the state and he has nothing to do with the government. Do not speak, you are the only one against them. Well, you voted 90 percent of the law. You've passed 90% of the law along with them. We, if memory doesn't cheat on me, none or almost none. But the point is that where it's obvious, where it's like the sun, it's clear where the state's been attacked, where the state's threatened, and where there's something against it, that no one can support it. And that no one can stand behind it. Not that there's a party to the President of the Republic behind it, and this time I'm not going to tell you about patriotism or anything else, but you have to bear in mind that we have a hard time ahead. Negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija will be in half if they see that there are no people in Serbia who do not want to sign independence, so half of the solution will be imposed on the outside. And you know it. And you know the pains ahead of us, so stop making more pains and more misery on Serbia, because we will have so many of them that no one will be able to take them off our people's necks alive. As far as the election goes, you win well. Nice one, but you're always asking for the help of everyone else. Now it's time that the citizens saw that everyone else was asking for help for you that they got nothing. Of 365 days 84 days, the main event for the President of the Republic, which has promised great results, higher wages, pensions, better lives for workers, for all of Serbia, were -- you know what? Water polo, basketball players, volleyball players and talks with Darko Rundek, singers and singers, 84 days out of 365 days. (President: Time. ) Be sure that both Serbia and Vojvodina deserve much better, so they want elections, so they want changes, to finally beat you and clear you from the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18714	As an authorised representative, Mr. Stanimirovic wanted a replica, and Mr. Petrovic wanted a replica himself. First mention by name, Mr. Petrovic, replica. Mr. Prophetovic came forward for the amendment. Mr. Petrovic, have you reached out to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18715	I signed up for the replica. Mr. Vukic didn't mention my name, but he's taken the heat with what I've been saying, and he's said a few things about what decentralisation is, whether it is politics or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18716	Mr. Petrovic then responded as wrongly interpreted by the Rules of Procedure. Then this is the address to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101. I'm giving you the right to a replica. Here you go, three minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, if the MP claims that he has been misread, that is the basis by which the President of the Assembly can decide to give him the right to reply. The president of the assembly, you just heard it, decided and gave the right to a replica. You have the right to replicate according to your Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18717	A few thesis has been presented here, and I have a simple need and a obligation to interpret them, because I need to explain. What the Democratic Party sees as a state interest is a policy that will allow Serbian citizens to live in a political and life context that they see as their own. It is a simplified and certain theoretical indication or theoretical term called decentralisation. What centralization of Serbia and the gathering of all competences into the hands of the government brought Serbia, we all saw together during the 1990s. Unfortunately, negotiations on standards in Kosovo are now under way, or we are awaiting a UN report, and at some point, negotiations on Kosovo's status and Metohija will likely begin, and this is the result of the policy we had in the 1990s. The fact that there is now no effective state power of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, this is due to the lack of sound, smart and responsible policies in 10 years, which we have all suffered together and where one part of the current opposition had active participation. I am touched that a very precise balance is being conducted on what the president of the state is doing, and it is perfectly normal, because President Tadic is doing his job and it is perfectly normal that when several savages beat up a Croatian musician in the middle of Belgrade, and it gives credit to the state, the people, the politicians, who work here and live in Serbia, then the president of the state takes a man and shows him the other face of Serbia. It's Serbia. Boris Tadic's being with Darko Rundek is Serbia, and not Serbia's savages who beat Rundek two or three nights before that, although I can conclude they have some kind of political support in this parliament. So, to conclude in the very end, in the best interest of the people of Vojvodina, it is in the best interest of the Serbian state to adopt an amendment to the Democratic Party, which will be given authority to a representative of the Vojvodina elected by this parliament here by the majority of votes to veto decisions concerning the Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18718	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18719	Dear Mrs. Pop-Lazic, fellow MPs, I went out to advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure in relation to Mr. Petrovic's exposure. It is about the dignity of the National Assembly and that the apostle speaks of what is not on the agenda. I understand the state of things here is talking about a specific amendment to the Radio-Difusion Act. The story of Kosovo and Metohija in this place should not be the subject of consideration of the National Assembly, however, I see that fellow Petrovic not only talks about it, but he talks in a completely incorrect and incorrect way. Mentioning 10 years of irresponsible politics, talking all sorts of things. In fact, it's something we've already seen by the Democratic Party and its representatives. They have nothing to say because they have no politics. They only talk about things that are marketingly tempting and that have no essence. That's what their policy is all about. The more time passes, the story of Kosovo and Metohija, when it is spoken by representatives of the Democratic Party, really becomes degutant. They are not talking about the state's activities in curbing terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, they are not talking about the existence of parallel authorities created by representatives of the Albanian community in Kosovo and Metohija. They are not talking about what the state of Serbia has done and it seems to save Kosovo and Metohija, they are not saying that now it is not disputed that both Serbia and the SRJ have been bombed for fictitious reasons regarding Kosovo and Metohija. They are now not saying there is a plan for Albania's undisputed creation. The constant story of irresponsible politics, and they forget to say that in the 1990s, more than in the second half, they were part of a propaganda campaign against our country, that they claimed that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija was the issue of human rights, that they claimed that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija was a democratic issue, which would be reportedly resolved when democratic structures govern this country, when they gained the trust of the people. What did we get? When they formed power and had the opportunity to influence, to show the essence of their policy, they showed that they had no policy, that their policy was Western policy, that their policy was the policy of certain countries. Those in the West say -- do this, the Democratic Party does that, and there's no politics. It is a shame, politically irresponsible, and I will not speak personally, that someone is talking in such a way about the politics of the Serbian state regarding Kosovo and Metohija. We have Resolution 1244, which was the only way to end the aggression on our country and the only document that guarantees us a legal basis over that territory. Instead of focusing on how to get essential autonomy based on this document, Kosovo and Metohija, we tell stories without content. The Democratic Party was three years in power and what did it do in those three years? She should not have mentioned in one word those crimes committed against Serbs, Montenegrins and others in non-Albanian life. They shouldn't have mentioned the word "murder." They were talking about incidents, isolated incidents. Just two days when some tragic event happened, the media published it, and then there was silence, a silence. Why? Because the donors from abroad said -- no, that's not what you're talking about, while you're the authorities keep quiet about it. It is a shame and we ask the chairman to direct, if possible, this debate on the Radio Diffusion Act, and if anyone is told about Kosovo and Metohija, about what the state has done or should do, the National Assembly should discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18720	Mr. Vukic, a replica of Dusan Petrovic's exposure, then Mr. Stanimirovic at the previous exhibition of Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing we've heard here once more of the non-existent reasons for this initiative and the submission of such an amendment. We heard some kind of attempt to offend the SRS or its members and representatives. I must say that I am neither personally nor sure that the other MPs are offended, not because we have no face, but because nothing has been said seriously, but because nothing is essentially spoken, except for the facts -- this is in Serbia's best interest. I don't know what it is in Serbia's interest, except that it is in the personal and private interest of Karadzic IDS, and Nenada Canka. Do you know what Serbia's interests are? I'll tell you now. As they say - they care about the future, so they have to, especially professional staff, then some Bojan Kostreš comes, so in 15 minutes he gets a degree in the University of Service Business in Novi Sad. In 15 minutes, a man graduated from college, believe it or not. It's about Bojan Kostresh. The Faculty of a certain Vrgotic, Vrkotic, something like that, in Novi Sad, in 15 minutes he finished. You're talking about who abuses what. Yesterday in the village of Kuštin certain Mile Đuric or Mica Đuric, the secretary of the province, and Bojan Pajtic are opening a water line that opened in 1997. The plumbing was opened in 1997, they were suffocating all day yesterday as they opened and how the province government did a lot. You're talking about Dark Rundek here. I don't know, I've never seen him in my life, I'm not a fan of his music, "Haustor" one way or another, someone might like it or not, but you were here to say that someone backs up that man getting beat. Is that what you're saying? Is that your policy, Mr. Petrovic? When you don't know what you're going to say, then you say - we have our good Boris, he doesn't do anything, it's not much for this job he's doing, but at least he's good, he's gonna sit down and drink coffee with those who get hit. Now let me tell you something. We have never encouraged, nor have we said that anyone can touch anyone, because there is a law for it, and these people have to answer in accordance with the law. I must ask you, Mr Petrovic, why don't you go to jail and get those who lynched Dragoljub Milanovic? Why didn't you ever condemn those people, but you threw them out of the back bench how good what happened to them was? There were few beatings, not you personally, but a colleague next to you. You've been throwing it all along. It's been a while. I'm asking you now why didn't these people end up behind bars? Why didn't those bandits who almost killed a man end up behind bars? Did you support and report in the paper how nice and normal it is for a former government official's daughter to be cut hair in a school, a 10-year-old child? To have her hair cut, to be cut, because she's the daughter of that functioner. That's what the SRS has never done, and don't give it to us. It's your hand's work, it's what you've been doing, it's your authority's doing, it's such a persecution of the rules we hope for, and we're sure it'll never happen again. You couldn't have us, and I'll tell you why. Because we were defending ourselves, because we showed you that we would stand up to each other in every way, that we would defend ourselves until the last drop. (President: Time. I'm done. That we won't let you humiliate us, harass our families, etc. It's not our manners. We didn't do anything right, we didn't do anything wrong with that Rundek, but I guess there's someone else in this Serbia who's got a job to do, whose job it is to arrest those who attack innocent people on the streets. Let him do something he promised the people. Retired pensioners, even though I don't know how he promised them that. I don't know how he promised them that. Taking off chains and locks, even though I don't know how he promised them that. A white Schengen list, though I don't know how he promised it. He promised them all that, and in the end his job turned out to be the only way I'd be in Tashmajdan, how I'd be "giv mi fiiv" with Pixie Stojkovic on Marakana, the same thing on JNA, the same thing in some fifth stadium and how I'd be a singer and singers to receive. It's nice, I respect their business. It's a good thing they do, but people, the president of Serbia probably has better things to do. Or it's possible that the president of Serbia has no smarter business today. It would be good if the citizens of Serbia got what the President of the Republic did from what he promised. Soon we will remind the public of what he said in the election campaign Boris Tadic, and let Serbian citizens themselves assess what is true and what is not true. That is why I am telling you - that is why the citizens of Serbia are seeking first and foremost to fight corruption. This isn't just a matter of state and a question of the Constitution. There is also a question of fighting corruption, because we all know who Karadzic is, in order to behave and why some care so much that this Karadzic can perform that function and that he has as many authorities as possible. For thieving and corruption. The thief and corruption were enough in Serbia. This must also be fought by this National Assembly, and by all MPs and all political parties. Those who do not have to participate in this, that is their business, but therefore you will see the punishment of the people in the upcoming elections will be powerful, powerful and great. Only those whom people believe will oppose crime and corruption will be able to gain citizens' trust, and you will see, it will be the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18722	Replica, Milan Stanimirovic, at the first exhibition of Mr. Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18723	Madam Chairman, dear fellow Members of Parliament, here I have come to respond to several allegations that were heard in the previous presentation, not in the previous, but before this, of Mr. Vukic. First, a member of the Vojvodina Broadcasting Council was mentioned here, his last name Karadzic was mentioned. Every member of the Broadcasting Council has been elected here in the Serbian Parliament. Mr. Karadzic is said here to be a tough separatist, who is about to secede Vojvodina by afternoon. I simply cannot believe that this assembly council could ever vote for anyone to be a member of the Republic's Broadcasting Council of the Republic of Serbia if he were to deal with such acts as separatistally, and believe me, I would be the first to vote against his election in the Broadcasting Council. As far as deprivement of rights, confiscation of rights, and how it has to do with both centralization and majorization. I'll arrange your house for you, and you have no right to ask yourself that question, but you will rule the way I do your house. But if we agree on some general principles and principles, how there'll be houses all over the street, or in the whole country, then let's not force anyone's attitude, but to live in a civil society based on human rights, where everyone has the right to make a complaint if they're being violated by some of his fundamental rights. So, we can't agree with the principle-- I'll do it without asking you. We have, it was just the idea, I also said that when I spoke about this amendment, that this Republic of Serbia as a reflection of its statehood does not have two broadcasting councils, although it has two public services: a broadcasting institution of Vojvodina and a broadcasting institution of Serbia. In order not to have two broadcasting councils, it was precisely this story that we are now talking about, that the issues concerning the Vojvodine Radiodifuse Institute have the right to actually veto a member of the Broadcasting Council elected from Vojvodina. I'm saying it's not perhaps the happiest solution, because lawyers say they can't have different rights in the same body. I made a concrete proposal. Change the law so that issues related to the development strategy of broadcasting and specific issues concerning Vojvodina's broadcasting are brought by consensus. Then we'll all have the same rights, and yet we'll have what was the meaning of this veto, the protective mezanism from majorization and some kind of centralization. Mr. Vukic says -- when I was a minister, separatists and autonomists were in power in Vojvodina. So you were in power in Serbia, and separatists and autonomists were in power in Vojvodina. I'd add to this, that's exactly the kind of sentence literally written down, so we can take a look. So when I was a minister, separatists and autonomists were in power in Vojvodina. This is not true, of course, but it is true that separatists in Kosovo and Metohija, while you were in power for a while, coming in, coming out of power, along with their coalition partners, managed to actually rule over one of our APs, which is Kosovo and Metohija. Not only were they not in power in Vojvodina, but they were in Kosovo, it started with -- arrest Vlasi, so you arrested Vlasi and got an unreachable Thaci. It was a state policy that was led at the time, Mr. Wolfich. Don't let these methods defend the state of Serbia anymore. The national interest of Serbia and the state of Serbia is not defended by the 19th century methods of the 21st century. (President: Time, Mr. Stanimirovic. In the end, I'd say one more sentence concerning this gas station. The permit to build the gas station was issued at the time when the then minister of traffic was issued, and the traffic was then Mr. Todorovic, from the Serbian Radical Party [[Intruder from the scene, Alexander Vukic: That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18724	Po, Businessman, the word has a National MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18725	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would ask these "yellows" not to live up to the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. And even if there is a concrete culprit for all that is happening in Kosovo and Metohija, it cannot be the basis for someone to live above the obvious loss of Serbia's sovereignty over Kosovo and Metohija. Especially because in the last five years you have been in power, and in those five years Serbia has completely strayed from the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, has left it in the hands of others, some of its allies from democratic states in the world who, behold, see what they are doing with Kosovo and Metohija. But while you're at Kosovo and Metohija and what's taking my place in the Serbian presidency, of course not worth it, let me give you some advice on what I would do if I were Boris Tadic, even if it didn't bring me any votes in the next election. If he received Rundek, does he know the names of the parents of Ivan Dejanovic and Aleksandr Stankovic, or maybe you don't even know who those children are? (More MPs at the same time let cell phones ring out loud. I'll end up with you Velini later, just so I can remember until the end. How can he not think of receiving the family of the dead boys in Kosovo and Metohija? Can't that score him a point? You'd think someone was wrong about the president of Serbia? How come he went to Srebrenica and didn't go to Bratunac? What are the mistakes made by the president of Serbia to give up the Serbian name wherever it seems to him that the West will resent it and that the West will think that Serbia has begun to lead in a Serbian way? And what kind of president of Serbia should not go to Serb sites, which must not receive them, which must not receive Serb families that kill in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't you "yellow" talk too much about politics and election. You are a party that has been harassing and ruling, has called elections and has turned into one of the smallest parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament. Is that true or not? (More messengers from the bench say, "Yes, it is true." ) Elections from the positions of authorities were called. But do you know what the people didn't want? Maybe some of you have sympathy, maybe one of you could be a minister. You're not all that bad. You're a bad group. You're a misconceived group, you're a criminal association (Laughter and disdain in the O.R.). [[Laughter in O.R.]] What can I tell you? You've made a big deal out of a man who escaped from Central Prison. The press asked me if it was possible to escape, and I said, "No, it's only possible for someone to walk." So someone was working with him. You don't wonder how he got in and out of Cedomir Jovanovic, maybe a hundred times, and every time he came in, he came out again. Instead of someone saying, "Well, stop." The way you, Mr. Stanimirovic, accuse radicals of everything that happened in Serbia before you came to power, I experienced Cedomir Jovanovic here. [[Laughter and applause in the O.R.]] He's still more politically talented than you are, he runs a good faction of the Democratic Party. He's getting better at it, the more you throw, the more I see that something's not right. But in that manner, he led you to now that you can look at how many of you there are. You scattered into two groups to make the people think there's more of you. And the hour comes from here, and the hour from there, so that someone will say, "On all sides, these yellow ones." You're gone. One-and-a-half a row on both sides of the O.R. (President: Mr. Nikolic, time. I'm sorry, I won't even answer my phone again. I knew you'd be on these branches. You can't introduce yourself to the Democrats, and to the nationalists, and you can't step on what you said yesterday, so you can say again tomorrow what you've been doing today. The people won't accept that. You can't convince me that all the other members of the Broadcasting Agency Council don't have the right to veto what one member of Vojvodina decides. All together have fewer rights than the one member of the Vojvodina. You can't convince me that we're passing laws here that don't paint all houses in the same color. When we pass the law here, then there's no painting in different colors, there's no different interpretation of the law. If we bring the law here, it can't occur to you in Vojvodina that you can interpret it differently than it was brought here. Don't play with it. Your borders were never a problem. It's ideal for you to bring your territory down if the people love you on that remaining territory. Don't play with it. Look how bad your policy is in the Raska area. For two years in the Raška region, you encouraged those who could go to the state of Serbia, and they bought them for you in two days. In two days, you lost your foothold with the only man in Raska who thought he was creating either some kind of autonomy or a federal unit. That's because no one's going with you anymore. It can be good for you, if you realize... (Zoran Nikolic, an incursor from the place: none of us will, and you will all. Maybe we won't either. No one wants us, and 20 of you won't. Let's see who's worth more. You're more valuable. Okay. Therefore, I ask you to do one thing together, the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party, to lead to an extraordinary parliamentary election, because you are convinced that you are winning, because I am convinced that I am winning, because those from the DSS are convinced that they are winning, because they are convinced that they are the Socialists that they win, because G17 plus is convinced that they will not fail. Let's go to these extraordinary elections and finally end this agony. [[Thundering applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18726	Mr. Petrovic, I presume a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18727	The president of this assembly introduced a very good practice for the assembly, has a day open once a month. Mr. Nikolic, I will appeal to the President of the Republic to introduce a day of open doors in the presidency, so much so you want to come in, it's your turn to get a chance. You can't get over that defeat. [[Applause and laughter in the O.R.]] Of course you were a serious candidate back then, it's never gonna happen to you again, but it's more important for a political biography. I want to say a few things about what's been said here before. Since you're making a parallel here about it, the President of the Republic receives who I don't want, Mr. Nikolic, to say and remind you, because unfortunately, as if you have a memory problem, the President of the Republic was in Kosovo and Metohija, no matter how many months ago. As president of the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia by being in Kosovo and Metohija for two days. This is what one responsible statesman can do in a country that has suffered such a disaster during the time you were running into an unfortunate, terrible, devastating and destructive government in Serbia. That is why it is a completely inappropriate comparison of the incident that took place yesterday, and I will remind you that this morning the President of the Republic said it was about terrorism, and of course it was about Albanian terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija, and what led to a meeting of one President of the Republic with a Croatian singer, artist, however you will, so the reason for this is the vandal outburst that happened two days before, when in the middle of Belgrade, in the middle of Belgrade, in Knez Michael's street, several irresponsible people, hooligans, beat up a man, neither guilty nor debtor. Of course, then it is normal for the President of the Republic to take him in and apologize on behalf of the Serbian citizens for sitting on him. You respect the Democratic Party for not condemning those suspected of doing lynch in different situations. The Democratic Party had neither in 2002 nor in 2003, deciding on the influence of the judiciary, neither today nor today, and of course the courts should deal with it, and anyone who lacked hair from the head should, as a damaged person, receive judicial protection, regardless of whether or not the perpetrator of the crimes himself is a member of the family of someone who has committed crimes. Citizens of Serbia, this is the Democratic Party's fundamental position -- they must be protected, they have equal protection against the law, because it is a feature of a civilised state. In the end, the president of the Republic promised to be an ambassador to the Serbian economy. He visited over 20 countries. He was in Libya, China, in the Western countries, and he ran business delegations everywhere. It would be good if you followed the President of the Republic from day to day and watched his protocol, to tell the citizens of Serbia, because you obviously know what's going on now. That negotiations are now taking place in Libya between our construction companies, precisely because they were in a delegation, led by the President of the Republic, that in China, he also talked to the President of the Republic about how to regulate the debts of our major state-owned enterprises and, of course, wherever it goes west, north and south, he cares about the Serbian economy and tries to open up space. No investments and no new jobs, no new jobs, no bigger profits and no pensions. If he said anything about profits and pensions, he said in that sense, and certainly did not promise anyone that there would be three dinars in Serbia, as some of them here did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18728	The People's Messenger Vukosav Tomašević, first according to the Rules of Procedure, then Tomislav Nikolic according to the Rules of Procedure. I apologize, Mr Nikolic, first of all in the Rules of Procedure, if you'll excuse Mr Stanimirovic. Mr. Stanimirovic, I named Mr. Nikolic after the Rules of Procedure, and then Mr. Vukic, then you. Please stick to some order. You'll all get your turn. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18729	I think it is almost unacceptable to insult the National Assembly with statements we can hear from the head of Tadic's party's parliamentary group. That is why I am really asking you to decide in the voting day whether or not the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, because the head of the parliamentary group acts as if nothing has happened in Serbia and there is no accurate, exact information about what happened in Serbia. Mr. Petrovic, I beat Boris Tadic in the presidential election. I failed to defeat the two Kostunica-Tadic. Tadic is a piece of cake for me. But when Kostunica joined him, there were a few percentages ahead of him, but don't transfer me to what, like any other Serb, injustice hurts me. Not because I participated in these elections, if the other two had participated, I couldn't possibly support the one who lost. Tadic lost. There was another in direct conflict with me. When everyone else met, except for the radicals, to support Tadic, neither can I against the mountain. But now I'm telling you, I'm going to win every election I'm going to take part in, and you're all going to back up Boris Tadic. Don't tell me I won't get another chance, 'cause it looks like a dictatorship to me, that I won't get a chance to win. Each of the millions of Serbian citizens has a chance to win the presidential elections. You can't tell anyone he doesn't have a chance to win. He may not be able to win, but an opportunity to enter the race and an opportunity to win must be given to every citizen of Serbia. I forgive you if you thought I'd be Prime Minister and not run for President of the Republic. I really forgive you for that. Mr. Petrovich, that's the way things are for you now. I don't see what can change in the next month, year, two, so things don't look like this. The SRS will win any election it will participate in today. Don't tell us we won't get a chance to win. I don't dare say that to any of you. As for the duties of the President of the Republic, I understand, while he kills all the embassy guards while killing cab drivers, when he has time to take his business seriously. He's in line, he's going after Belgrade, he's running at people, he's hitting people. Collect from Karadjord, he wasn't ashamed, he wasn't hiding behind security, he was killing himself, but from Karadjordz, none of the other presidents of the state had a car accident. None. Tell me, how can a car crash be when there's 10 vehicles in security when there's a traffic car every 50 meters? How come no public figure has a car accident other than the President of the Republic? What kind of President of the Republic has a car accident? You're such a banalizing function. You're telling me about Rundek, the poor bastard, he's been beaten by bandits, he's got to be accepted by the President of the Republic. He was so terrified and scared that three days after the beating, he walked Prince Michael's street in Belgrade. What are you making up the story? So many Serbs beat up, killed, so many houses blew up, such scenes as the real president of Croatia when it comes to Serbs, and you found yourself seeing a Rundek, you said he was an artist, and you never heard of him, like I never heard of him. By the way, take care of Serbia while you're still in power. You were ordered by the people to take care of Serbia, not Dark Rundek. You were ordered by the people to tour Serbian sites, to symbolically show that no one should kill us, that the President of the Republic would stand in the protection of those who beat and kill, but not only the Croats and not only the Muslims, but also the Serbs. There are Serbs in the Republic of Serbia and still live. That's all I ask of you. If I were to mention something that you're doing right, if you didn't have the support of the SRS to do something right. But look what you've turned into -- pi-ars; there's no way we're gonna hear what the Prime Minister thinks, the president of the state, one or that minister. They're talking about their pi-ars. If the people don't know, they're those young girls you're collecting somewhere, so they're taking government attitudes, or some serious man. I can't imagine that there is anyone in Serbia who will bring forward, who will answer every question a journalist can ask to the president of the Republic, that the president of the Republic does not make his press conference, but his pi-ars give the newspaper and Serbian citizens views of the president of the Republic, and he drinks coffee with Darko Rundek during that time. Let's have a pi-ar drink coffee with Darko Rundek, so take a picture of him and tell him - the president of the Republic drinks coffee with Darko Rundek, and the president of the Republic will tell us what will happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, what will happen in five days and what his position is in the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. I warn the public of Serbia, I apologize and end, the President of the Republic in a conversation with the Prime Minister, whom I attended, said he would not argue with anyone about Kosovo and Metohija. That's why they're killing our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18730	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. I ask the People's MPs to observe the time set by the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Angelkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, followed by Mr. Stanimirović, a replica of Vučić's presentation, and Mr. Vukic. No, it's Nikolic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18731	Ladies and gentlemen, I can understand that some people weren't here in parliament, they weren't involved in any political work, they weren't in the process of what was happening, then they're attributing even, don't realize that I'm an SRS lawyer, but don't attribute the Old Square to them, because that's when the SRS didn't exist. You know, Vlasi and Old Square were in 1989, Mr. Petrovic, you don't know that. The old square and all that was happening was when Serbia got up to make a single Serbia and that's why we are against your amendment when it comes to veto. I have to be honest, I'm surprised you filed that amendment. I thought you wouldn't have the courage to submit an amendment against the suspension of veto rights. That's why it's to end the veto of what Stanimirovic said that you're not going to edit the house, etc. We had this until 1990 -- that from Vojvodina and Kosovo a house was arranged in central Serbia, it was arranged that people in central Serbia would live, but no one had the right to interfere with how they would live in their homes on the side. We can't do that because we would do the opposite of the Constitution. After all, the opposite is not the policy of the SPS at the time, but is the opposite of the people, because the constitution was adopted in a referendum and the people stood up to defend such a constitution. When you keep mentioning Kosovo whether it is lost or not -- we would not allow those children to be killed in Gorazdevec and not move at all, to issue a statement. Now that children like this are killed in Strpce, we're satisfied with a statement. I was just reading a statement. What, by saying we're gonna get those lives back? It's true, when something like that happened against the Albanians of the forest, we stood up to defend him and we sought out these terrorists, we searched and we confronted those terrorists. [[What would you do?]] Right, someone's gonna say they're stronger. They were stronger, they had Americans, they bombed us, but we didn't escape, we didn't issue a statement, we fought to protect that people, and tomorrow we would keep it safe. It is the honor of a people to fight for their people and protect them. I understand, I told you last time, you're right, and some other here who are making noises, you have the right to never stand behind the Serbian people. You have the right to receive support from the electoral body, only she's small, she's insignificant. Don't worry about my party president, there's someone to take care of our party president, and you take care of your party president and your party. [[Intruder from the scene: Is that what Milosevic said?]] You have the right to do so, you just don't have the right to underestimate that heroic defense of the people who defended their people and now you don't respond to any statements, and those statements are insignificant. Travel around the world and lead the President of the Chamber of Commerce, which is actually a political figure in the Chamber of Commerce, not the President of the Chamber of Commerce, and that it is fortunate that this Parliament should abolish the Chamber of Commerce as a state institution. We will launch the initiative and see who will join, and who will not, to remove the Chamber of Commerce as a para-state institution, but as it is everywhere in the world, to be an NGO, an NGO that cares about that economy and those economic operators who are interested. Now the President of the Chamber of Commerce presents himself as a spokesman to the President of the Republic - where is it in the world? He's not anywhere, only with us, because he's taking him to China and he's traveling through China. Let him bring some work, which I don't care where he's been, but how much work he's brought. And Tito was traveling, but he was bringing in a job, and this one of yours can travel as much as he wants, spends state money, so nothing. There's that Gilas only takes complaints and requests, and every day in front of the Parliament, people wait for me and ask me, "What is it, I've gone to Gilas ten times and nothing." So quit talking about it, start doing something. You were talking about decentralisation. What did you decentralize, just an omnibus? Have you returned any powers to Leskovec, the Babushniks, the Nis - you have not returned anything to anyone but to make separatism again in Vojvodina. Now, that won't work, you don't have the support for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18732	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. First, Mr. Vukic's replica to be exhibited by Mr. Stanimirovic, and then the replica of the National MP Stanimirovic to be exhibited by Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18733	It is indisputable that I have the right to a replica after Mr. Stanimirovic personally called me. So it's not true what you were saying, Mr. Stanimirovic. You were deceived by Bogdanovic for reasons unknown to me. The main business and support to get a pump in such a place was the city of Belgrade and the municipality of New Belgrade. Even the community of morality and how significant it is to involve, so that this work is done. In the afternoon, I will bring you papers - a man is otherwise a member of the Democratic Party, but it is not disputed that he is a member of the Democratic Party because you cannot be responsible for each member, but a man is in direct business with the people of the Democratic Party, and it is known even how much he has given money and to whom. There is no direct evidence of that, but everyone in Belgrade knows it and it is not a great philosophy. But there's evidence for something else. There's direct evidence for something else, which I'm about to present to you. Namely, since you can't stand the SPS so much, since you're talking about what they did, how they did everything during that and that period, I'll tell you -- at the end of 2000 and in early 2001, agreements were made in February 2001, one of the senior officials of the SPS then, one of the country's most famous businessmen, sent the highest leadership of the Democratic Party two million euros to hand. I filed the D.A.'s papers today, and he took two million euros into his hands. I have accurate data that the face took money, which the faces were in the car to protect the car that was carrying that money to the destination. I told you, worth two million euros, and you look at how much it is. I think you know who he is, too. These people aren't so prominent to you today. I know it may be a small thing for you, maybe it's a little bit, because you're probably doing business with someone who gives you 10, 15, 20, I don't know, but it's good for the Serbian citizens to know that these things were happening and that some people were buying their freedom by sending huge money to the head of the government at the time, and he took it by hand. Yes, on the hands of Zoran Djindjic himself. I'm telling you that I said that we had separatist leadership, yes, that was after 2000. Before 2000, we had a leadership that couldn't have been separatist, and I can't say that it was until the end determined for the state of Serbia and completely, as I suppose it could have been. What I resent to you is that you use every opportunity to transfer something to the radicals and you don't know what. You're transferring us the Ahtisaari-Cerdomindin plan, and we were the only ones against that plan here in the Serbian Parliament. What are you transferring to us? What are you transferring to us about Kosovo and Metohija? What can you get us here? That we were against capitulation. Once you want to talk, you want to fight, so Toma Nikolic says - people, I have kids, I have grandchildren, I don't want to fight, I want peace, and then you say, "Yeah, now you're into capitulation." Arrange what it is that you resent Serbian radicals, what it is that you try and want to do. We want you to have the opportunity and I expect you to have the opportunity to participate in the elections very quickly and to have the opportunity to beat us in these elections. There's only one problem, and that problem is that you know it's not going to be like that, because you know that you're going to get incomparably more trust from citizens, which you know that people have a lot of empty stories, empty promises about how we're going to go to Europe tomorrow, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, and not tomorrow, but in three years, then five years, so in ten years. People want to have their own power, their own state, which will take care of Serbia and the interests of Serbian citizens and who will know what is the most important. In the end, when you talk about houses, someone came to your house to edit it - no, Mr. Stanimirovic, Vojvodina is my house as much as yours because we have one big house, which is Serbia, Mr. Stanimirovic, and we don't have two houses, in which we differ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18734	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirovic, a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18735	And Belgrade is my house, and Nis, and Valjevo, just like my Vrbas, and Vojvodina and every end of Serbia, but I don't live in five houses, I live in one house, and then I arrange only one house. I've been sorting out sometimes and wider, and the whole street, sometimes the whole town, and sometimes I'm just sorting out one house. I'm sorry Mr. Nikolic left. Here by name he called me and compared political talents. It can be said for Mr Nikolic that it is also a remarkable and prominent political talent, unfortunately, as well as in sports, a major talent. He's an exceptional candidate, but he's a senior candidate. Never chosen. And as for the traffic incidents, that's one, this is a funny remark, but I remember a car accident that was far more difficult, in an election campaign, when the minister of traffic was driving exactly Mr. Nikolic, and then Mr. Tadic, as a candidate for the president of the Republic, immediately after he found out that there was a car accident, invited Mr. Nikolic and asked him for his health, is he okay? Because, of course, he wanted to beat a living and healthy man, not beat some mummy in bandages. As for the finding that the very small ones from the DS parliamentary group are, I'll tell you about the anecdote. It concerns a great Montenegrin hero, Nikz of Revino. Nikac of Rovina is one of the great Montenegrin heroes, of course also Serbian heroes, and one Turk has decided to head him. He came into his tribe and asked - where is this famous Nick of the Revino, that I take his head off. Everybody's quiet. Where's that Nick from Revine to get his head off? And Nietzsche of the Rovina comes out, when that meter and the kevap, there's nothing to see. He's looking at this Turk and he's saying, "This little one, is that Nick of the Rovina?" That's what Nikac of Rovina looks at and says - you don't see me all, Turks. You don't see us all. You'll see us after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18736	Now at the presentation of Mr. Stanimirović's replica, and I remind you all that according to the discussion that was, we have no reason to insult the dignity of the Assembly, nor to present false results for the past year, nor to claim that the mummy is something in turn. So the mummy is a bandage. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Stanimirovic made a mistake, it wasn't the election. They were parliamentary elections, Mr. Stanimirovic, not presidential elections, but it doesn't matter to you. When Mr. Tadic has an incident with Mr. Cimpl, Mr. Nikolic's first statement was, you can blame me, not Mr. Nikolic, but obviously do not follow, Mr. Nikolic said - it is the President of the Republic that we should wait and see what happened. And I said, after I found out, I had a friend who was an eyewitness, quite accidentally, yes, and I said that everything was completely different and nobody ever wanted to tell me what I said until the end. In fact, that man was at risk of life. He was transferred through the bank by Boris Tadic's security car. You're a man who barely survived, whose life was threatened by the insolence of those security guards, and otherwise they drive very rudely every day, not every day, but I often meet them on the Belgrade streets, you know, I'm on Belgrade streets all the time, and it's no wonder, which is also quite common, and I don't dispute his right to security, and the President of the Republic has to have security, etc., but they need to behave less arrogant, less arrogant, less ossion. That's what we're talking about. Yeah, that's the point. That's what all citizens condemn and that's what all citizens see. I didn't understand this - that we didn't see you all. Every day we discover something new and see that we've missed so much so far that we know. And so this story of these two million, which were given after October 5th, so that someone's freedom would be bought. But while you're at those anecdotes and jokes, here's a joke or an anecdote. You see how much truth there is in it. It's being told all over Serbia. You have someone from DS, a thief, you have someone from DS fair, and you have Santa Claus, and they're sitting in one room, in one room. A cake in the middle of the table. Turn off the light, the cake's gone. The prize question is, who took the cake? It's not Santa Claus. It's not even a Democrats. The democratic thief, because the honest from DS and Santa Claus are fiction, nonexistent characters, but that's all you're saying in Serbia. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18738	This doesn't apply to any MPs, does it, Mr. Wolf?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18739	That's right, Mr. Markovic, however, I told an anecdote, something that is said in Serbia, as well as Mr. Stanimirovic. Now, whether it's true or not, some citizens are assessing it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we only have one thing to take care of. Our shootings, what we're going to tell each other, who's going to beat who, are normal things. Did this guy say better, or did he say better to the other guy, it's all a political game, a political game, and I got nothing against it. I'm sure you don't either. Neither will you take away our right to a replica, nor will we take away from you. But there's one thing we can't play around with, and that's that story -- someone would compromise multiculturalism, multi-confessionality, multinationality in Vojvodina. That's not what anyone wants to threaten. We just want to have one country, one country, one country, one Serbia, and everyone in it has equal rights, and the one in Kragujevac has no more rights than the one in Novi Sad, but the one in Novi Sad has no more rights than the one in Kragujevac. That's the point, that's the meaning of the policy of the SRS, and that's why we're proud of having only one house, and we don't let anyone on the side get involved in that one house, but we'll ask ourselves the same thing about the attic, and the ground floor, and the terrace, and everything that that house, such as ours, our beautiful home, belongs to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18740	Thank you. Here you are, MP Dusan Prophetovic, according to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18741	The honourable MPs, the Honorable Chairman, will not support this amendment, or will not support the solution set out in the previous law. I'll try to explain briefly why we won't. In addition to the explanation of this amendment, two words are mentioned - decentralisation and autonomy. First, when we talk about decentralisation, I am a great supporter of decentralisation, but those who talk about decentralisation in three years have done nothing but omnibus law, which, you'll agree, is not the best way to decentralisation, nor to lower certain powers from the republican to the province and local level. However, when we talk about decentralisation, we should bear in mind that this law is not the only one that treats the issue of decentralisation. It will certainly be much more said at the Constitutional Commission meetings, or the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its subcommittees, as some experiences from the environment should be respected. It is not only about decentralisation giving ingenuity to the province and local self-government, but also about taking over certain obligations, particularly financial ones, by local self-government and regional self-government. There are not few cases from an environment where, with greatmentusism, the process of decentralisation, and then it changed after four or five years, because, simply, some local and even regional self-government in certain countries, were not sustainable. So they were neither functional nor financially or politically able to withstand the burden. So just an explanation that in favour of decentralisation goes this amendment automatically wastes. As for the "I", decentralisation and autonomy, I have to say that decentralisation and autonomy have little touch points. Because what autonomy means. There are several types of autonomy. For example, Madeira is autonomous compared to the rest of Portugal, not because of finance, not because of economy, not because of interethnic problems, but simply because it is an island thousands of miles away, it is not part of a territorial continent and its functioning in a single state should have somehow been shaped. When a veto is given, as proposed in this amendment, it is then a solution to the political problem. So Vojvodina is neither territorially distant from Serbia, so Serbia cannot function as one continent, nor do we have a financial problem. In this case, we have a simple desire to, in one political way, separate the system in which Vojvodina and media information in Vojvodina function from the rest of Serbia. There are few cases in Europe that there is the right to veto an autonomous area against the whole country. Generally, consensus is being introduced, so on the matter that the Basque parliament can decide on, it requires consent from the Spanish parliament in order to implement the decision. But they don't have the right to veto, they don't have the right to 100% denial of one decision. Is there a political problem in Vojvodina that should be treated this way? I don't think there is. I think someone wants to make it and I call on all the MPs' clubs not to support such a policy. It seems to me that behind these initiatives, while listening to some advocates of autonomous and separatist policy in Vojvodina, someone wants our public service to call Serbia and Vojvodina's radio-television. We will not allow this, just as we will not allow all other topics to be treated completely selfishly, closely by the province's authorities. I'll give you just one example, we're witnessing that there's now a rumor that Vojvodina has been taken away because a concession is being given on the highway from Horgos to Požega. No, they want to give a selfish concession on the highway from Horgos to Nova Paz, and Požega and the rest of Serbia seem to treat certain politicians as if it were Segedin, Bratislava or any other area in any country, and therefore I call on all MPs individually and MPs' clubs not to support such a policy. Serbia is one and Serbia's Radio-Television as a public service is one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18742	Here you go, Mr. Tomasevic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18743	Mr. President, dear colleagues, obviously because of someone's desire to earn cheap political points, we have to do the job we've already done again. We, the other day in the principle debate, devoted the most time to this particular issue, so here we cross the arguments for and against, and I think it is unequivocally concluded that the argument to abolish this right is dominant. So, the DSS cannot support Mr Petrovic's amendment and we need to support a solution to erase the existing stance on the law for at least three reasons. The first reason is legal. This provision in law, which gives greater rights to a Vojvodina member, is unconstitutional. This has been pointed out by all the serious lawyers at the time of this law's preparation, at the time of its adoption, and in the past three years of its application. That's what we said the other day and no one left the Democratic Party to challenge it. Therefore, it is unequivocal that this position is against the constitution and that its abolition of this law must bring the Constitution into force. The other thing is what worries me. Mr. Petrovic, as head of the DS parliamentary group, submits an amendment and defends something that is against the constitution. It tells me that Mr. Tadic, the head of his party, wants to nominate something that is against the constitution. The second thing, this provision giving greater rights to a Vojvodina member is directly contrary to Article 26 of the Law defining the rights of members of the Council. The first position is - Members of the Council do not represent in the Council the bodies or organisations that have proposed them, but act independently, according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with this law. The Statute of the Republic Broadcasting Organization, which we adopted on the Committee on Culture and Information the other day, gives an even more decadent provision so that it prohibits members of the Council from representing in their work any individual, group or collective interest, and you are now asking that this Vojvodina member has greater rights and that he represents the interests of Vojvodina. He doesn't have that right by this attitude. Furthermore, there is a member from Kosovo in the Council and is elected by one special procedure compared to the other eight members. He's proposed by these eight, so the Parliament votes. He has to be with Kosovo, live in Kosovo. Despite choosing in a special way, there is no special right in its work. He does not have the right to a suspension veto but has no other right than the other eight members. Therefore, he can't be entitled to this one from Vojvodina either, because if the one from Kosovo is not, he can't have the one from Vojvodina either. Kosovo is still an Autonomous province within our country, or perhaps you, Mr Democrats, think it is no longer Kosovo. In the end, when you find cover for your autonomous and separatist policies in Vojvodina, you tend multiethnicity and tend to decentralisation. You're constantly representing multiethnicity only exists in Vojvodina. It has already been said the other day, and here from this pay phone today, Belgrade is in every respect more a multiethnic environment than Vojvodina, so no one is seeking special rights or protecting the special rights of national minorities in Belgrade. I come from the Raška area, where the percentage of population composition is much more multiethnic than in Vojvodina, so no one is seeking protection of rights for that part of the state. This is because it does not exist, but it really does not exist, we all know it well, the public knows it, there is no serious political force in Serbia that is against the protection of minority rights. And we all repeat from this pay phone that as far as minority rights are concerned, thank God, Serbia is dominant in the region. In no Balkan country, minority rights are as protected as in Serbia. This is what people from Europe say on many occasions and we all support it, we all support mechanisms to protect these rights. In all of Serbia, not only in Vojvodina. Why only in Vojvodina, and not in all of Serbia. There's no reason. I don't understand why you, gentlemen of the Democratic Party, did not seek the protection of the rights of your Bosniak coalition partners in the Rasko area. You have come to the elections together, there are two Bosniak MPs on your list, and why not seek the protection of Bosniak rights in the Raška region, but only the protection of minority rights in Vojvodina. It's not just the decentralization of Vojvodina's autonomy. Decentralisation is something else, it must apply to all parts of the state, not to what you are constantly misreading and contradicting as thesis, that Serbia will be decentralised as much as possible by Vojvodina's autonomy. It's completely wrong and we'll never accept it, it's neither sustainable nor theoretical, nor practical. Finally, I will take the right to give a word of advice to the President of the Republic, as the debate is open today and on the subject. I suggest that Mr Tadic receive Mr Andrija Mandic, president of the Serbian People's Party in Montenegro urgently during the day. Milo Djukanovic banned him from entering a sports hall in Podgorica with the flag of Serbia the night before last. Here, gentlemen, the whole side today, an alarming report on this. Mr. Mandic is the president of the largest Serbian party in Montenegro, an MP in the Montenegrin Parliament. It is a party that authentically represents the interests of 33% of the population of Montenegro, which declares themselves as Serbs and 65% of the people of Montenegro who speak Serbian. Such a man is not allowed to attend a public event in Montenegro and, in my deep conviction, this is also how the problem from the domain of the president of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore Mr Tadic, how urgently he must receive Mr Mandic today and discuss this issue with him. If he doesn't have an address and a phone, we'll put it at his disposal right away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18744	The word is made by the People's Messenger Aleksandar Lazarevic, then by MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18745	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, after two hours of debate, which was, apart from the amendment, we welcome to start talking about what's on the agenda. We could hear the president working and what he's not doing, and what he's doing on the streets. We could also hear how the presidential candidate works, we could hear about the new elections you have called here and the results of those choices you have called here, but you have one thing that will simply dissuade you. Serbian citizens will wonder who and how they will represent their interests when the election takes place, whether it will be an extraordinary parliamentary or a regular time, it is not up to you to decide. Unfortunately, we spent two hours talking and distracting Serbian citizens by talking about what is called politics. There's another story, what state interests are, what state issues are. And one of the state's interests and state issues is the issue of broadcasting and the development of broadcasting, and one of the state's issues is the way and the amendment that will solve the area. An amendment requiring the DS to remain the same as it was in the 2002 law it passed means that one member will have more rights than the eight members of the Broadcasting Council elected by the assembly. That doesn't make sense. Not only is it not in accordance with the Constitution, but it is not in harmony with sound logic. Out of the nine members elected by the National Assembly, six members of the Broadcasting Council were voted by opposition members and DS members who produce and say -- but rights will be compromised. What does that mean? That those six, which you chose here and your voices, are people who are nationalists, people who will not respect the multiethnicity and multi-confessionality of the Vojvodina. Of course not, of course there is one topic that will be addressed at the state level, and that is the issue of the development of broadcasting in this country. Of course they'll work after they've been chosen. We need to remember what it means when we give someone the right and the ability to work on behalf of the state, on behalf of us. We've authorized them to be people who are independent of politics. We have authorized them that we cannot influence them, because we believe they will work in the interest of the development of broadcasting in this country. Of course I believe that they will respect multiethnicity and the Vojvodina, because the G17 plus has always respected and advocated the multiethnicity of the Vojvodina, for the rights of national minorities, and so on in its party, in its ranks there are seven people who represent national minorities and I don't see that there's anything epochal and anything big. But it's normal for these people in the RadioDifusing Council to respect the interests of this country's broadcasting, and therefore the people of Vojvodina, and the residents of Dimitrovgrad, Bosilegrad, and not to list any further. Broadcasting is something common to everyone and there is no broadcasting for national minorities and broadcasting for those who are the majority population. But there is respect for the interests of the national minority and the law is clear there. Public service must respect the interests of national minorities. The public service of the Vojvodina will have two channels and I suppose by law, and the opportunities that will be given by the existence of these two channels, will respect the interests of national minorities in the best possible way. So it seems to me that there's a political interest here that broadcasting in this country doesn't work the right way. If you give one member, I don't get into what it's called at all, but you give the possibility of blocking it by not voting, and issuing a license, adopting a strategy, withdrawing a license, if someone breaks the law, it's anarchy, it's something that goes the way that this area goes. If we are all in favour of this area being settled, then it is clear that this amendment cannot survive. In the end, I'll remind you of the law again. A colleague from the DSS said exactly - the law clearly states that the members of the Broadcasting Council do not represent the proposings, so according to that league of things and the representative who is from Vojvodina does not represent the Vojvodina Assembly who proposed it. It represents the development of broadcasting and works according to its personal conviction and conscience. That's the point. The fact that he knows more about broadcasting and broadcasting problems in Vojvodina, it is an extenuating circumstance for the work of the Broadcasting Council. This will take into account all that they need to determine, measure in the right way and make certain solutions. That doesn't mean he's representing the Duke's Assembly. It doesn't mean that none of the elected representatives represent the organisation that proposed it. Let's get back to the point and essence of the law. The Broadcasting Council is an independent body to whom this assembly has given, through elections by authorised proposings, the right to regulate in this area in this country. Does this mean that the military or defence strategy in this country will be specifically defined for Serbia's territory, especially for other territories. Of course not. There's something of the state's interest. The development of broadcasting and the settlement of this area is of the state's interest and I don't see any possibility, no chance of someone being denied by it, I don't see that danger of being abused or that the rights of the national minority will be denied. All I see is a chance to get political points at it and speak to their voters: you see, we take care of you, and these evil ones don't lead. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We take care of everyone in this country and we try to make sure everyone is properly represented and we try not to make a mistake when we suggest things, but we also try to be state-of-the-art. It's easy to say that someone is endangering some rights or that someone is less in love with some people and that someone loves more people, if it's going to give us political points. Either we get political points or we work in the interest of Serbian citizens, even if it's not popular, even if it doesn't bring as many votes as anyone would think the charge would bring. Working in a state-of-the-art way, working in the interests of Serbian citizens means passing laws that have both logic and legal arrangements. And so the G17 MPs plus will not support this amendment because they feel that it is not even logical, that it is not in accordance with the law and believe that everything that has to do with the leadership of the state will always have the support of G17 plus, and everything that is politics will have the condemnation of this party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18746	Mrs Stojačić, you've been reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure. For the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Stojacic, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18747	Article 104. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, we are obliged to guard the dignity of the Assembly, and you, Mr. President, are obliged that if anyone offends any of the MPs or any of the MPs to act. I can accept the fact that you're impressed with Mr. Wolfie, why not?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18748	Be kind, Mrs. Stojacic, quote a member. You didn't return to the hall, Mr. Vukica I warned, whether his exposure, when he mentioned one party, referred to the MPs, and he confirmed publicly that it did not apply to the MPs, and thus was not noted. Now tell me the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18749	Mr. President, I've told you that I'm calling on Article 104, and as you can see, I don't button on my back or me or most of the MPs here. Mr. Vukic made it clear that I will not quote what Mr. Vukic told the joke or I don't know what he called it, making it very clear that he insulted all DS members, making it very clear that he insulted a large number of DS supporters, but also a large number of Serbian citizens who believe that DS policy is something that leads Serbia into the future. Mr. President, quoting again what is said for this speaker is not polite. The way you react after the joke you've told isn't polite. Your function, the powers you have, does not allow you to comment on what is presented for this speaker in this way. It is normal for someone from the DS to report and replicate something that is not allowed to be spoken to Serbian citizens in direct transmission, directly insulting all those who, as members or as sympathisers, see their political option. Maybe you and I didn't understand, but then that's the problem between you and me. I believe most of those who watched and listened understood what I was saying, but also heard what Mr. Wolf said. I don't have a problem with what Mr. Wolfie said. I have a problem with how you reacted. (More MPs talk to each other out loud and distract the speaker. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18750	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18751	It is sad that the issue of autonomy, even after this amendment, which has obviously caused a great discussion, benefits for monetary subscribing, benefits for day-to-day political points, benefits in the persuasive sense, is used in the worst possible way. The issue of Vojvodina's autonomy is a constitutional issue. The issue of Vojvodina's autonomy is a historical and cultural issue. The issue of Vojvodina's autonomy is the right of every citizen of Serbia and every citizen of Vojvodina. None of us sitting here, and almost no one, or any of the citizens of Vojvodina, sees Serbia any different than the only country in which they live, as an integral part of themselves, as an integral part of their national identity. But he has the right to experience that national identity as a citizen of the Vojvodina. He has the right to, with a number of specificities, which are why there is a historical and cultural heritage of autonomy, experience himself also as a citizen of Vojvodina. It has the right to do so because it is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which unfortunately is still in force, and you have promised to get a new constitution, and in this new constitution special rights of the citizens of Vojvodina are assumed. It has been passed an omnibus law in the previous assembly of this Parliament, it is a small but significant shift. We expected a major and significant shift in the autonomy of the Vojvodina after the adoption of the Constitution, which is unfortunately not yet on the threshold, is not in sight. Unfortunately, that constitution and that pre-election promise of yours are still ahead of us, and it was first and foremost under number one. It's not in front of us because you know that the election is coming after him and because you're still afraid of the fact that you're going to the election. Don't, please, never forget one important thing. The Democratic Party also had a majority in the previous government and had a majority in the province's parliament. It is the only government, of all governments in transition countries, which has won and re-formed the government since the next parliamentary elections. It is such a single government in all transition countries. And that is proof that much has been done in Vojvodina. None of us from the Democratic Party experience the policy of the Democratic Party and the politics of the Vojvodina issue as a separatist, none of us experience ourselves differently than as a Serbian citizen. In this sense, this amendment was also submitted, not that someone would have the specific right to block something, but to give special attention to the specificities that Vojvodina has, in a special way, treated everything that Vojvodina has, in a special way, in a special way, to confirm that we respect everything that Vojvodina has historically is, what Vojvodina is today and what it plans in the future to be, as a member of the Assembly of the European Regions and as the most developed part of Serbia at the moment, ready to invest that prosperity in the progress of the entire state of Serbia. At no point outside Serbia, and the planting of those who all have rural committees, for the sake of form, to deceive citizens of Serbia, now that the Democratic Party has another kind of policy, is the lowest level of day-to-day substituting that really does not belong to the state of Serbia or to the republican parliament, does not belong to any of us who really wants this country, the whole, in its branches to move forward. (President: Time. We went so badly in the last decade that we have no right to stop. We don't have the right to go backwards, although, more and more, it seems like we're going backwards. We have to go ahead because we're responsible for generations that go ahead of us. Thank you. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18752	Thank you, Mrs. Stojcic. Mrs. Stojacic, I understand you wanted to find a way to talk about the amendment. But I have to work on the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, when Mr. Vukic was exposed, because the president's obligation to protect dignity and not to allow the insult of the MPs, I asked whether the sentence, which could have sounded offensive, applied to the MPs, which is the only thing the president can do. And I got a clear answer that it's not about MPs, it's about the anecdote. According to the Rules of Procedure, the president is not required to protect the anecdote. That's why I'm asking you if you're satisfied with this explanation or if you're asking the Assembly to declare it in the voting day, Mrs. Stojacic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18753	No, I'm not happy with that answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18754	All right, the assembly will declare that in the voting day. The president will continue to seek that in no way, what he cannot, that he does not give false notice. In that sense, I realize I can't confirm anything about buttoning up on my back, because from where I'm standing, you can't see, and I have no intention of checking. Since there was advertising in the Rules of Procedure, the replica of Mr. Vukic, which was mentioned in this presentation. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18755	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I thought you'd stop this, and then I listened very carefully to what you were saying. Anyone who listened to what Mrs. Laicevic-Stojacic said could hear a well-designed marketing speech that meant nothing: yes, we have to worry about our future, and now we're actually going backwards, these steps are very big and big, and I'm very worried about our future; we have to go forward, and we have to go forward again, and we're, you know, winning and we're going to win again, and we can't go back in any way. That's the whole speech. When we expect to hear something concrete, we hear it's a grudge on my anecdote. I didn't make that up. I couldn't make it up. That's what the people in Serbia say. It's already a general anecdote. Whether you like it or not, I don't know. Here, Mr. Baralic heard it much earlier than I did. I just took advantage of him and told him before. Is that right? A lot of people have heard that before. What can I do? It's no big deal. When Mr. Stanimirovic reached out to the anecdote, then I'd like to tell some anecdote here. I'd like to tell you something about how the government has formed and how well you're good and successful. It is true, you rule, that you have a congregation majority in Vojvodina, and whoever formed that congregation majority in whatever way, and that he did not form it by lynching someone, beating them, burning them, we respect it. We respect your congregation majority, consisting of Boris Tadic, Bogoljub Karic, Nenad Canak and Jožef Kasa. Is that right? (Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić: Yes, it is true. ) The main job of the assembly majority is that Joseph Kasa does not go to prison, not because he is the head of the Hungarian national party, but because he is in crime and corruption, and that is the only thing you do. The judge has ordered custody, the second judge has arrived because this first one suddenly got sick, cancel his signature, past all legal procedures. There's another judge, then there's no detention. He came in third, and then he said he needed to get rid of that crazy prosecutor who filed charges against him in any way. It's your only policy. That's all you do. You're looking at how Kostresh, in two days' time, will graduate from college in two days' time. I knew that Orlic had finished in 11 days, at least he studied for 11 days, and this one graduated in two days for a service business. (Laughter in the O.R. and several MPs throwing: European fast. Yes, European fast, there's nothing you're talking about here? You love the Duke more than we do! My mother is from Vienna and it's from the natives, from the Milvans, as they would say. Now you're a bigger Duke than I am, you're not. I'm sorry, we have one country, we have one country, not five and all kinds of interests. We don't get involved in sports. We think sport should be handled by athletes, not politicians. I turn my SOS channel, maybe he wouldn't want me to call him a friend, but a good acquaintance, Dragisa Kovacevic, often watch a good sports channel to see those reports, to see them lose the Star and the Partizan or win in domestic and foreign leagues. It doesn't matter if it's this club or that club, I'm a star and Tom's a partisans, so the two of us are discussing it. I turn the SOS channel and I see a large number of mobsters in one place. Suddenly, I look, one from the Democratic Party, the other from the Democratic Party, the third from the Democratic Party, the fourth from the Democratic Party, the fifth from the Democratic Party, the sixth from the Democratic Party, as the main board of the Democratic Party, some Olympic Committee. The Olympic Committee as the Democratic Party's main committee. I'm asking Mrs. Stojacic, she's not exactly like me in that society, I know some of them there, she's not to be measured with them, she doesn't look like her, so I'm asking what you're doing there, how it's with them, she says, so you're not really supporting the other one, she's asking me now. No, I said, and the other one's from your party. Whatever turns everyone from the same party. What do you have to do with it? To help this or that. No, it's just interests and nothing else. I'm asking you to stop this debate. Leave us alone. We told you our attitude. (President: Time. ) We said what the position of the Serbian Radical Party is. Leave us alone. It's nothing we blame you for, we're not the government, we're not anything else, we're just telling you nicely that we won't agree on any more than that. What you do and how you do, we can discuss as much as you want. It is not you who love the Duchess more than we do. This is what the voices of the people of Vojvodina show you, because in Vojvodina the popularity and the number of votes is the first SRS. It is true that you and Karic, Canka and Kas have more, but the SRS against DS, the SRS is incomparably stronger... (President: Time. ) and has incomparably greater support for the citizens of Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18756	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101 - is a misread Mrs. Stojačić and I am using the right to allow her a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18757	Mr President, you are required to be warned about being thrown out of the parliamentary benches, if this interferes with the presentation of a certain MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18758	Mrs Stojačić, in various, non-verbal ways, I warn the messengers whenever they receive, so don't worry, you turn your back on me and you haven't seen. So I looked very closely at everyone who wanted and immediately stopped winning. The Rules of Procedure do not foresee a way, Mrs Stojacic is absolutely right, I will give you back your time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18759	There's no theme here that likes Vojvodina more or less. There's no theme here whose mom is or isn't from Vojvodina. There are many people in Vojvodina who were born in Vojvodina, but also many of those who have arrived in Vojvodina for various reasons in the last decade and a half, by achieving the idea of a great Serbia, by achieving the stories of the goals that brought us here, through agony, wars, sanctions, sacrifices, tens of thousands of those who were driven to war while Serbia was at peace, tens of thousands of those who cried, because they did not know where their children were after the mobilization, tens and hundreds of thousands of those who had left everything they had and found their houses in Vojvodina. And that's the Duke's. And it's not a question of whether we love or not, the thing is whether we respect what Vojvodina is, what Vojvodina was and what it intends to be. It is not Vojvodina's personal question of any politician who deals with Vojvodina's politics. The Vojvodina is the issue of the Serbian state. Vojvodina is a question of Serbian citizens and Vojvodina is a question of the people of Vojvodina. All of us together need to give answers that are best and most acceptable for each of us individually, but also for all eight million people, as this Serbia has, and Vojvodina as, of course, an integral part of that Serbia. It is not the Republic Parliament's place to talk about sports for this speaker with negative connotation. Never, and since I was six, I've been in sports, I haven't tried, and I've never mixed up politics and sports in my life. Sports is something that is an integral part of my life, and from sports, given the circumstances, I have entered politics. It's the best product this country has. I'll remind you, in the past six months, this country has had the most success in its history in all categories and all the sports it has appeared in European and world championships. Since yesterday, we also have world champions in the Kayako - Zorić and Filipovic. Since yesterday, we have European champions in junior water polo competition. I'll remind you - and world water polo champions. Since yesterday we have a second place in the world in junior competition, only less than a month ago and the world's first place in cadet competition in handball. In order not to count, I'm not saying that I'm responsible, all those who are trying to get results in this sport in this agony. All people who really work hard and create and are the only and most serious positive omen this country has through this product. We're not asking for too much help, but we're asking for respect. The event of the circumstances wanted President Tadic to receive so many people, as you will admit, who brings world or European gold deserves to be accepted by the president of the country and the prime minister. I'll tell you one more thing, in terms of sports in this country, there's almost a consensus. I didn't notice that there was no serious opposition or position. I've noticed that most of the people in this country who are involved in politics, and that's the important segment of this country, care about sports results. We didn't fight in political colors. It is true that there are several people from the DS in the highest bodies of sports organisations, but these are people who have top sports results, as athletes, (President: Time). ) as international judges, or as coaches, the most significant European and world results each of them individually. I hope this pay phone, instead of celebrating every success that we have individually and together, doesn't have to be used for sports, and it gets political points again. No one in this congregation speaker should ever do that. I know, Mr. Vukic, that you're actively involved in sports, through support from various organizations, that's positive, I don't criticise you every time I mention your name, just work. (President: Be kind, finish, but please do not throw away.) Of course, no throwing. Please, President, let's try to get back on the subject, try with dignity to talk about Vojvodina, to speak with dignity about sports, and to return at least a little dignity that this House has not had for a long time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18760	Thank you, Mrs. Stojacic, I've been trying all along to get back on the subject, but in the meantime, someone's reporting by the Rules of Procedure, otherwise the amendment would have already ended. Since this was according to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's nice to hear Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić speak. The only problem is that it's not quite true, especially the part where I guess for the accident of our people in Krajina she wanted again, not directly, but to make it clear to everyone, to accuse the SRS. I told you on purpose that they're from an old-fashioned family, because I know that you love and that kind of relationship, that I wouldn't have to tell you that with those you're talking about, you've never had a chance, because we have 90% of the support in those of whose torture and suffering you're talking about. They recognize as those who were on their side just as Serbian radicals. Whatever place, or part of Novi Sad – Klis, Futog, Veternik – you go, has never won anyone but the SRS. No one else has ever won but us. Why? Because these people know who was on their side, and they also know who was against them and who was trying in every way to make a division between the natives and the natives, etc. We don't care about that. I guess these people know better who was for them and who wasn't. It was your project, destroy Serbia and destroy the Serbian people when you talk about various projects. Our people were expelled from their hearth because the Ustasha government wanted it so, because the Ustasha government wanted to banish the last Serb, the indigenous population of the Serbian Republic. You want to transfer it to someone in Serbia. They know best who helped them and who didn't, who did something and who never did anything. This distinguishes Serbian radicals and DS representatives. Citizens, refugees, people who suffered the most, who suffered the most in the past, well know the difference between us and you. You're saying this is a question of the Duke, this is a question of all of us. I have to tell you -- yes, it's a question of all of us. In sports, I've been hired as much as a fan. I'm telling you, every morning, Toma Nikolic and I make a joke in each other's debates, because he's a Partisan and I'm a star. But I'm going to go to the waterpolice to be with the common people in the audience, or anyone I report to, or some secret picture of me, and you make it seem like they're taking pictures of you everywhere, at all parties, and in secret and public, as if the President of the Republic has no other job than to get a whiff of someone else's feathers. You speak here as if we are not looking forward to defeating Zoric and Filipovic. Of course we're looking forward to it. But we act as a common people, as a common world, rejoice in our houses, rejoice in the streets of our cities, and not in our sense of their knowledge, their skill, their industriousness and their ability. At the time of that government, the worst you're talking about, our basketball team from the competition took gold medals -- from the world championship, the European championship, to all other significant medals. Was that what the regime was responsible for? It's not. It is due to their skill, their desire to do so for their country. When I spoke, I deliberately pulled you out, personally approached you, so I told you. He's got all the mobsters you want, and you know them well. In sports. Is sports clean from mobsters? It's not. When you watch that session of the Olympic Committee, wherever you turn your head, you see some mobster. That's not what I'm saying against everyone, that's what I'm talking about. All citizens of Serbia know who I was talking about, but nobody can write about it. Why can't you play a game in the Golubovci, honestly, because there's Raja Bozovic, who's good with Zach or this or that. Which is why he can't be here in Belgrade, because he bought judges here and here. You all act like you don't know what it's about, because one mob wing beat someone else. And we're all being silly, okay, we'll be quiet, sorry I brought it up. We're all going to talk now that the soap is one and everything is working well. I mentioned this because I think it takes support for sport, how many politicians need to provide mass sports for children, that children can physically develop, be mentally healthy and how much they can help top-notch sports, but not that they get into it. How many politicians you have that have combined in sports. You want me to tell you on the case. Let's say, what did the Povatar government and the City Government of Novi Sad do in the previous term -- goes to the Vogorica basketball club to play the game in Podgorica, the costs for the game are about 4.5 thousand euros, travel, overnight basketball players, etc. -- each invoice was at 41,000 euros, because Pomorijski and others were taking 30,000 in their pocket, and the rest went to basketball clubs. That's what I'm talking about, and you tell me if this is true or not. I have evidence for this, and you know I can't make this up. Did I mention one or the other wrongly, that to me of sin, in any story. Is this true - living truth. It's only when I watch what's going on in my Star, so I don't give a shit about the mob or anything else without talking about everything else. Every man sees it in this country and everyone pretends like nothing, nothing happens anywhere, and from the pressure on the side and on the other hand, because our sport has turned into an interesting sphere. We want a policy to get out of there and that's why we made a decision at our party's presidential college that none of our representatives, the party's representative, should enter state or social clubs, be there in the leadership and use other people's property for personal gain. I think we made the right decision. This is a good opportunity for me to point that out to the citizens of Serbia. Let others explain what they do and what their interests are. We're going to go and yell - front Star, front Partizan, to the stadium to take the children, one or the one, to ensure through system laws, through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, what is our job, that children are healthy and that people can play sports in a normal and civilized way. Everything else is more than us and something we don't want to be involved in. In the end, it's nice that you opened this story about Vojvodina, but you didn't deny me about obtaining most of it and how you were in front of the Radicals in Vojvodina, because I know that in these last provincial elections we also got a significantly higher number of votes than you did, and that you could explain to us how the nice and good coalition partners of Canak, Kasa, Karic, are just telling us what good works in Vojvodina and what the citizens of Vojvodina have seen from your authority. I don't think they're anything, and that's why the people of Vojvodina, perhaps more than all the other citizens of Serbia, are waiting for change and new elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18762	Thank you. Replica. Ms. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, according to the Rules of Procedure, injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 101.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18763	Mr. Vukicu, there are no social, state-owned clubs in Serbia, there are groups of citizens. Serbia's Oil Industry basketball club is not a group of citizens' club but is a business unit within the Oil Industry of Serbia, and this is a problem for the current management of Serbia's Oil Industry and I suggest they deal with the functioning of the basketball club. Whether there is an institutionally well-organised issue of sport in Serbia -- of course there is no such thing. Is it the responsibility of those who are currently leading the Republic of Serbia, of course it is. I would remind you that the Democratic Party has tabled an amendment in the vote of the Ministry Act, to form a sports ministry, in order to address the basic and major problems that exist in the sport currently in the Republic of Serbia. Do I personally recognize these problems - I recognize them very much. I don't feel bad about it, and I feel sick about it. But this individual calling of certain people who are guilty, who have certain faults is about key, but you don't need to tear down the system and the continent through individual examples. Each of us advocates individual responsibility and through such a way should address the questions of individual responsibility of anyone who in sports or any other social branch is. As far as the Duke's concerned, I'm not an native. My parents came on some trains, my father from Montenegro in 1946, and my mother from Like 1956. I feel like a Duchess, respecting what the Vojvodina is and respecting the citizens of the Vojvodina. Do I, in some sense, feel like an autonomous -- yes, in the most positive sense of that word, by respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and what it says. Respecting the historical fluids of the Vojvodina, I can proudly say here that I am fortunate to feel like a Duchess, just as every Shumadinian will say he is proud to be a Shumadian or a Belgrade citizen to be a Belgrader. It's not a flaw, it's a virtue. It's only with the fact that we identify ourselves with the environment in which we are, and we accept the wider community as the community we are in, that we have the chance to tear down the walls that you and many others have tried to build up in the last decade. Only when we tear them down and come out will we realize all the specificities and beauty that we bear as members of this people. It's not a demagogy. And we won the Vojvodina elections, and we'll win next time in the Vojvodina elections. I know it's hard to lose because only the winners remember, but unfortunately, I'm afraid history as winners won't remember you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18764	Thank you, Mrs. Stojcic. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18765	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have nothing more to talk about sports and what it's about. I hope that mob ball goes a little bit loose. When someone tells me someone can go to the pigeons' trial normally, then I'll say everything's fine. Until then, I want you to unwind your mob bench, and I see how you wrapped it up, and it's getting more complicated. As for that - the Duke, Belgrade, the Shumadi, everyone loves their own. Looks like someone thinks the quieter they talk, and then the worse they say about their political opponent, that it's something nice. Here, I think Belgrade is the most beautiful person in the world, but that's why I'm not asking for a member from Belgrade who's going to veto the law on broadcasting, and you're asking for Vojvodina. So it's not the same. That's not what the Shumadian wants, since you mentioned Belgrade and Shumadi. That's not what anyone from any other part of Serbia is looking for. That's not what anyone in Vojvodina is looking for, except you. You're not asking for Vojvodina, you're not asking for those who got more votes than you are, you're asking that one of your members, a very bad member, known for corruption, separatism and everything else, have the opportunity to do whatever he wants. Let go of that empty story about it, dear, and we love the historical fluids of the Vojvodina for all of us. This has nothing to do with history, it has to do with thieving. What does this have to do with history? What does this have to do with Svetozar Miletic, for example? Listen, Karadzic, this has something to do with Svetozar Miletic, who's he got to do with? With whom in the history of Vojvodina he has connections, explain to me this historical fluid. It has nothing to do with historical fluids, nothing, but a little bit in someone's pockets, a little bit so they can control the ether, a little bit of political control and nothing else. 'Cause it's all wrapped up in a nice story like that, wow, we do for our Duchess, we feel like the Dukes. Well, I also feel like a Belgrade citizen, and like a Vojvodjan, and as a Sumadian, like every part of Serbia, I feel. Well, what, is that a way for one part of Serbia to have the right to veto, and the other part of Serbia does not. Is that how you build walls inside Serbia? You who have always wanted walls within our country and within our people to make, who are speaking to God about the great Europe, the great world, the wide world, and each time you see that you somehow divide Serbia into as broad, larger and thicker walls as possible. Well, you've been telling us about Europe since 2000. Here it is, people, in 2005, the end, until you take everything you need to take at any level from both Belgrade and Vojvodina. There you are equal. Equal autonomy for pumps in Belgrade and Vojvodina, and for many other things. Now, that's what needs to change. That's why things have to be set up differently in Serbia. In all of Serbia, both in Vojvodina and in Šumadia, both in southern Serbia, both in the Pcinj County and in the Jablani County. But both in the Zlatibor County and in each other, without any difference, and it has nothing to do with the attitude towards the people of Vojvodina, and where your mom and dad came from, since you've talked about it, because I'm telling you places, and you can't give me an example when DS won Futoga or Veternik. So tell me that example. Remind me. Ah, it bothers you the way I act. And that bothers you. Are you that impatient, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić, so you want to say in Futoga instead of Futoga. Is that it? And that bothers you? Nice, Mrs. Lakicevic-Stojačić, so you can kick me out of your country, as you throw out anyone who opposes your mob environment in a sports society or I don't even know what you belong to. Serbian citizens want to live in a normal country, so no one makes any difference between them anymore. Citizens of both Futoga and Futoga want to live in Serbia. And no one will separate them and make them better or worse because they're north of Sava or because they're east of the Danube, or I don't know where they are. No, I don't. The people of Vojvodina want to have the same rights as all other citizens of Serbia, not anymore, not less. As the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Shumadia will. So stop being the guardians of the speciality of the Vojvodina, the historical fluids. I would ask you to explain to me what the unfortunate Karadzic has to do with the historical fluids of Vojvodina. Because of the viewers, because of people who don't know, it's not about Vuk Karadzic. It's about this Karadzic who was there, some director, the editor-in-chief of television, who blacked out everything, and not Radovan, but someone who put his pockets and fists and hats in all ways, known as the prominent place of Nenada Canka and DS, and that's the only thing that makes him recognizable in Serbia. And now, because of him, someone put something at risk in Vojvodina. Now, I'm sorry, it's something nobody in Serbia will believe, and it's something that I'm absolutely sure citizens are looking forward to, but this time we won't beat you for as long as we did last time, but we'll do a lot more to help you both, Karic, Canak, and Kasa together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18766	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18767	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the technicians would say this was a warm rehearsal. Someone here has tried to delegate a couple of state-level and political issues, in the form of amendments, through one amendment. To listen to the way MPs and citizens of Serbia react to something that was the subject of political and national engagement, which some previously called homogenisation in Serbia or Serbia. And the debate that has been going on these few hours alone shows that this will always be a very, very serious problem for all those who are trying to deal with politics on this political platform in some other areas seemingly harmless. In order for Serbian citizens to understand exactly what this is about, distinguished colleagues here talked about it today. I'm not surprised by the 2002 Legislative Committee, who said it was like this, i.e. such a law on broadcasting is legally possible, so it is, in principle, missed in the procedure at the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am surprised by this Legislative Committee, which would have had to have a different structure and a different majority, which said that this amendment is legally possible, which has not been suspended. It's an important question. I also remind fellow MPs, members of different committees, that everywhere and in every place they are obliged to represent primarily those interests which are the state and political interest of Serbia, which is framed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legal act. Mr. Tomaševic and Mr. Lazarevic have already said, this amendment is also opposite to Article 26. The law on broadcasting, which accurately and precisely defines what the obligations of members of this agency are. And since we're not little children, since we all represent and represent a certain political point of view, and we represent a number of people in this House, that we just call all things a real name. It is impossible for someone to have more authority, and for those with him, who is a member of the same organization, in the same body, to have less authority. It's not normal and it's not possible. As far as the specialities of the Vojvodina are concerned, various colleagues here today have declared themselves in that sense. Even in the 1890s, a beautiful mile married a Sumadinian in Takova. That was my great-grandmother Mile, so I'm a Novosadian. She was from New Now, if that's important. I see that was important here today. We had a country where all the citizens of this country, especially in Vojvodina, could have teachers in their native language, finish primary and high school, get degrees in academic titles, master's degree and doctorate, have post-doctoral specializations in their native language. It's unimaginable for Serbs in any country in the environment. It was about sports results. We had a country that built playgrounds and sports halls in the fields, where sport was funded from folk funds, from budgets, where instructors and professionals who worked with amateurs were paid. We're picking up the fruits of a concept in sports today. Today, sports became mafia, and sports were universal. He didn't do it today. Today, living people are traded in sports, and nobody takes it as a possibility that it's abuse, that it's human trafficking, and I don't know what else. And go back to what the subject of the amendment is. We won't protect anyone by giving someone else more rights. We will protect every citizen of this country if members of a single body, followed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and has chosen these people in a legal manner and in the future gives this authority a level playing field. Now some here, the people would say, come out after the ship, now say what's contrary to the Radio-Difusion Act, yes, for God's sakes, someone, Peter or Paul, represents one group and one people, or one region. Even though we've said by law that each of them, by their own conscience, in their own senses, does this job with knowledge. If we'd known that at the time we chose them, we wouldn't have gotten our vote. In principle, I was saying, to me, the more important question is who stole and hid three national frequencies in this country. No one answered me last time. Now I throw every glove in the face who does it. Where are the two frequencies of Serbia's Radio-Television and where is one frequency of Novi Sad TV? Who hid them and who are they waiting for? It was done at a time when Rade Veljanovski wrote the law, when Mr. Korac was the government's representative in charge of the area and when DOS had a majority here. Who promised without a public competition to some frequency that could cover the entire country? How this will be regulated in the future should, among other things, be asked about this counsel that we are talking about today. To conclude, anyone born in Shumadi doesn't have to explain whether he's a Serb. I was born in Takova near Savinac, there are 99.7% of Serbs, there are few Montenegrins and some others. Chačak and the Moravia County are, in that sense, the ethnically purest in Serbia, but it does not give me the right, nor any other to take more or less of these rights or those. I guess we have the principles that we stand for, the principles that we stand for, so I guess the principle should be that every citizen of Serbia, wherever he lives, should have available public broadcasting services in both the Serbian and the languages of those people who live here, which I remind - under one law that was adopted unanimously in the federal parliament a few years ago, and it is an honor to live in such a state, which is the Law on Minorities - they can exercise their rights and with that in respect of the other, it does not hurt the head. But I will stand up to everyone demanding that minority rights be higher than the rights of Serbs in this country. It's not normal, and I could never agree to that, and I guess none of us are expecting that. If that were the case, we wouldn't be responsible for that job the citizens sent us here to do. A great deal of dust has been raised around the Radio-Difusion Act because it was not brought in the way it was meant to be, because this is the second or third revision, which is likely to be some, because the responsibility for this law is borne by the 2001 and 2002 DOS, because it was written by an NGO whose most prominent representative was Rade Veljanovski, who was severely paid to write this law, which was paid by this people, and the people were not informed about it, and because a large number of MPs then gave a vote for the law, and he did not think of it as a responsible and good law, it was already a question of DOS party discipline. We will reform it and we will complete it until that degree that can guarantee the citizens of Serbia the responsible law and responsible behaviour of those who, in accordance with this law, choose to carry out important state affairs. The issue of frequency sharing is not a technical issue in Serbia. It's a big business issue, big political influence. This is a question, after all, prestigious for many of these televisions that are financed in one way or another, but that is also a question of whether those televisions that have great external support will get national frequencies, whether what they are doing in the future will work in a legal way. There's a big challenge for Serbia in radio-diffusion, there's a lot of traffic on the air, there's big problems, huge money's spinning, and I guess it's our turn to have in the law a proper way, to have behavior that will ensure that even if they all function on equal terms, they don't pre-guarantee concessions for what they don't deserve. Why there was no big fuss and big talk about whether the space of Kosovo and Metohija is covered by a broadcasting service, whether we have correspondence there, whether it can be broadcast in Serbian from there on this or that. Unfortunately, it only exists in the clues and if the state is somewhere responsible, then it's responsible for it. The fact that in Serbia today anyone with 20,000 euros can make television in any language, with any programme, that does not exclude the right for those in Kosovo and Metohija to have the right to listen to at least what we call service information from their home country under the same conditions. In the end, it was about mobilization and war. This country fell apart because in an unconstitutional way the only legitimate armed force in this country, JNA, was declared an occupational force, which in an unconstitutional way separated Slovenia and Croatia, which some foreign states recognised beyond all rules and norms and because the change of the Constitution of Croatia in which Serbs were not a constitutional element. We are, this country is the queen of the Serbian people wherever they live and we will never agree to Drina be the limit, but the spine of that people. Whoever doesn't understand that is his legitimate position and his legitimate right, but we don't have the right to, in that way, we who represent a different point of view, don't bring it out here, because no matter how these things end, history, I hope, will still set a place for everyone. I'm afraid one day the shelter will be too small.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-29-0.u18768	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 2a be added after Article 2a. The Committee on Culture and Information has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Alexander Lazarevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 5th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Predrag Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Culture and Information has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Since we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in particular, does the proposing's representative, Minister Dragan Kadidinovic, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda on the basis of Article 85(3), honourable Members of the People's Parliament have held a debate on all points of the agenda. I hereby set Tuesday, August 30th, at 10.00pm, as a day for voting on all points of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
