ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23884	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I want to tell you, Mr. President, and remind you of something we talked about. Three or four times, I think I'm a recordr by the number of reminders in this assembly session, that's what you did, and I told you after a while, you were wrong once, twice, you were wrong; everyone happens to be over-excessive from time to time, to say a word more than he thought, and than he was supposed to say at that point. I think it's honorable behavior and that this is how responsible and serious people behave. We came here yesterday from a pay phone, I guess in a surgical rush of defence and the work of Mladjan Dinkic, we heard from G17 Plus: "I was here in Belgrade on October 5th and I wasn't in Livno." So, he said he was in Belgrade and he wasn't in Livn, speaking of Mrs. Radeti, who was originally from Livn. It's not funny, you should be ashamed and ashamed of what you said, because in Livno there were Serbs who were martyrly living, mostly killed during World War II. What was not then killed in the previous war managed to save its head; of course, to preserve it and be here in Belgrade. You were bothered by the fact that the Serbs from Livna, Trebinj, were in your way. Do you mind Serbs from Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad? You think good and normal people are the only ones living in Belgrade. I was born in Belgrade and I know every corner of this town. I have to tell you, my father is from a place not far from Mrs. Radete, about 45 kilometers; the Ustashas have killed him all, is he guilty? Or are you going to share people by where they're from? Then it's your most important job, so you think you're insulting them. Tim, sir, you're talking about yourself. You say what kind of people you are. I meant to say, first of all, the yellow ones. This shows only what the difference between us and you is, not just in political attitudes, political agendas, political goals. The difference is what kind of people we are, both you and we. We'd never transfer anything like that to you. We'd be ashamed, ashamed of the people. On the other hand, yesterday I was listening to more complaints about the means of information, the radicals bothered, they wanted to tear down the Parliament, to bring down the institutions. We're not going to tear down the Assembly or the institutions, we're not DS. We will never destroy the state of Serbia. But we're looking for something we're entitled to. We are not personally offended, Mladjan Dinkic said and I cannot sleep because Mladjan Dinkic told SRS MPs that they were bastards. No, it's a principle. You can't insult Serbian citizens, you can personally tell me what you want, but you can't have a general parliamentary group, the largest parliamentary group in Serbia and the largest number of Serbian citizens to accuse them of being bastards, primitives or voting for bastards and recipients. Someone's got to apologize for that. We're waiting for that apology. If anyone thought, a new day, they will forget, they will not. Someone says - you talked about it, and you told Mr. Albianić, so Albianić is to you, so there was no situation like this. Yeah, that's not the problem, that's what's gonna happen in the future. We MPs here need to exchange arguments. (President: Time. ) We should tell each other what we think, so let them be harder to say sometimes, it is important that there is no conflict on the street, that people do not conflict. But the minister can't go out for a pay phone and say, "You're bastards, or you're bastards, who are going to criticise this law, I won't answer." There is no one who will say that such a thing is well done. Now he is a great minister, so vanity does not permit him. I will not apologize, for I am very important, what the radicals said. Yes, and the MP can tell the minister, but that's why he gets a warning. For the word "snatcher," I got two warnings from you, for the same minister. It's true, Mr. President, I received a notice from you personally. I won twice for him, and otherwise I got four times in total. I don't mind getting that kind of warning, the problem's in the nadal Rules of Procedure, it's not just your fault. The point is either we will respect the citizens of Serbia and you will not insult them by where they are from, because the man is the same, whether he is from Livna, Trebinj, Subotica, Bujanovac, Kragujevac, there is no difference. Don't make it and don't talk because you might be from Belgrade that you're better than anyone else. (President: Time. ) In Belgrade, I spent my whole life, I was born here, I grew up and I'm no better than anyone who's not from Belgrade, I'm no better than anyone, and I'm no worse. We're the same, and we belong to the same country. We're all citizens of this country, all we have to do is differ from who this country loves, who wants to protect it, who wants to defend it, and who doesn't want to do it to his country, and nothing more than that. There's nothing else we should be different about. One more thing, we're waiting for Mr Dinkic, don't tell us – pensions are on the agenda, and radicals won't get pensions, so they're doing this today. We've heard these demagogue, empty and pointless stories for years. We listened to her for years, and we listened to her. We can't wait for the pensioners to get their pensions and a little bigger checks than they have today, they can't wait for those pensioners, who, most of all, vote for the SRS, not you. We can't wait for it to finally happen after a lot of promises and after a lot of stories, but you can't say before that, you pensioners are bastards because you vote for the SRS, you pensioners are primitives because you vote for the SRS and that says one minister, who comes here in jeans for midnight visits to parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23885	Eight minutes, Mr. Wolfie, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23886	Mr. President, once again I point out to you the fact that the MPs of the SRS are not giving up their request. I invite you to ask Minister Dinkic for an apology. He's got more ways to do it. There's countless of them. He can just say, "I'm out of line, I'm out of line." It's not that big a deal. Each of us says that at some point and says it. And we can go on normally, so you don't go with conspiracy theory and a story about how someone had a secret meeting with the yellows, because I heard that too, so they're going to leave the assembly so I don't know what they're doing or I don't know how. No, we don't do that. We have our own policy, policy of the SRS, a policy supported by the largest number of Serbian citizens. We don't look up to the DS or anyone else, but we're looking, and no one can forbid us from being treated here like dogs. If we have to put up with certain media and have treatment as dogs, that's how they treat Serbian radicals, where every socio-political worker who plays the journalist thinks he's very smart and the smartest, when literally as a street dog treats a guest from the SRS and then says, yes, he saw what a professional I am and how objective I am. Every day they're used to mindless lies, so they're going to make contributions on their televisions, which they've acquired at the time of JUL, when they were the biggest yellow ones, and today they're the biggest G17 or I don't know what, so they're going to make contributions to how they're radicals through the police, believe it or not, they're calling the citizens of other nationalities for an informative conversation. You're wondering, you're watching that program, people, if you're normal. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to those who do it. You're wondering what kind of lunatics they are, who these lunatics are, who these people are, what they've got to do with the police, what they've got to do with the executives. He says he sent a statement from the Democratic Party. Then call them and ask them if it means they can send a statement that I took this TV and shot the President of the Assembly, if there were no cameras there will be a statement, so they'll make a story about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23887	Eleven minutes is on that TV.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23888	You can do anything in this country. It can be written in this country yesterday: for the first time local elections go by the name of the Serbian Radical Party – Tomislav Nikolic, no Vojislav Seselj. Then you wonder how you're not ashamed to be so rude and reckless liars. All the time, we go to local elections as the Serbian Radical Party – Tomislav Nikolic, so that we do not have to get an original signature from The Hague for each election. We go to parliamentary elections with the Serbian Radical Party list – Dr Vojislav Seselj. There is no end to the lies, and there is no end to the liars, and there is no end to men who will underestimate the National Assembly and the Messengers of the people. Dear Members of the G17, do you see my people that they are able to say that a man who has not finished a grade of elementary school, but is not a worker; I love people who are uneducated, but are working, are worthy, diligent, contribute much more to this country than we do. No, it's this one -- "I lie down to eat you," who has never done anything in his life, is very smart about what he's going to say – Albianić is ugly, Vucic is stupid, Aligrudic is the worst on the globe, and Markovic is a complete lunatic and then he's the smartest man in the world. It's funny to you. Call, Mr. President, Mladjan Dinkic to apologize to the MPs, to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, because this was not directed against the person you can say is in a political conflict. He could've come out and said, "You're Tomislav Nikolic and you're like that, you're Alexander Wolfie and you're like that." He told all of our voters, Serbian citizens, of all MPs in the National Assembly who wanted to criticize him, that they were bastards and primitives. I ask you to do so, because until now, with all our conflicts, with everything we had to say to each other, this assembly has worked much better than it did in the previous session. Please, Mr. President, to do this, see how much effort we're making and we want to tell you that it would be good for this assembly and for our country, in general. One more thing, I'm not a man who, and all of our MPs will talk about who they are and what they are, and don't run away from it, who will cry and whine, who won't know what to say because someone told him something. Not only will I not accept and I cannot accept that Mladjan Dinkic tells me anything, especially not him, that he says that we are bastards, etc., not only because of ourselves, but also because of his family and those who will not allow Mladjan Dinkic to call them that and because he is the minister elected by the National Assembly. You can cover this up, Mr. President. It's just one minister's vanity, nothing more than that, absolutely nothing more. I expect Minister Dinkic to appear here today to make an apology. We will not return to the committees of the Serbian Parliament until that happens and you can be sure of that. You can warn yourself, you can throw us out of the National Assembly, you can do whatever you want, you can leave the Assembly without the SRS, you can do anything, Mr. President, but then think carefully about what this assembly will look like, what kind of legitimacy it will be, think about and what its legality will be. As long as there are SRS MPs in this room, there is legitimacy in the National Assembly, and then the question is whether you will have legitimacy, and it is certain that you will not, and it is a big question and you will hardly be able to defend the thesis that there is any legality at all. We at the SRS, I'm done with it, I'm not going to harass you any further, Mr. President, I know how hard it is for you to give me a warning, I didn't even go out with the intention of talking this long, but I want to tell you this, I've repeated it many times from this pay phone. Mr. President, in this assembly we represent the SRS, I can only sometimes when Toma Nikolic is not here to speak on behalf of this parliamentary group, just a little Mr. Aligrudic, I end up right now. So, on behalf of these MPs, I can tell you one thing, which is that we have no other congregation, no other country, no reserve country, and for our country, we will fight in our own congregation. If you're able to get us out of the board, get us out of the highest representative body, then think about what you've done, what you've done so that you might succeed. But then I tell you one thing, how you smile today, how you smile and how you think everything is easy, one thing I'm telling you, we in the SRS have never been forced into power, nor are we going to repeat it to you today. We'll never come here by slamming windows, burning congregations, chasing you, lynching you, throwing you out, like you used to do, but we'll tell you one thing, if you behave like that, we'll look for a peaceful way to stand up, don't people, our political power doesn't elevate us. We don't treat you too arrogantly and as an ossion that you're much smaller in a political sense than we are. We talk to you, exchange arguments. Don't make us show how many radicals there are in Serbia, how many people there are for change. If you make us show it to you, to invite people to any place, which is before 24 February, I'm afraid it's going to be a lot harder for you than it is today, and we're not doing it just to keep things under control and never to cross the street. As I said, we only have one country, we don't have a spare, but take care of what you do, take care, because the citizens of Serbia won't take this anymore. We are holding back people who are seeking protests, who are seeking demonstrations, who are full of pride, pride and passion from the authorities. When some papers are forged, we tell you – yes, we would morally vote to throw out those MPs. You don't even appreciate it. We have more courage and morale than you to tell everyone in person and not to hide, even though you are our political opponents. Is that your way? To tell the bastards, because we're morally stepping out, because we're saying that morals and justice are more important than anything else? Gentlemen, I think the time has come to understand this, to get serious and to see that we are not acting in accordance with personal or party interests from time to time, but to follow a thread of political justice and true political morality. Please, Mr. President, invite Mladjan Dinkic to apologize to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to apologize to the citizens of Serbia, who chose them, and then immediately after that apology to carry out the most intense attack on the SRS, let him say what he wants, but let him not insult the citizens who voted for the SRS, because those citizens who voted for the SRS and those who would vote today have at least eight, nine or ten times more than those who would vote for him, and we say that there are still a very large number of people who would vote for him and we do not underestimate that number of voters. After all, I'd like to point out that Sunday's local elections are in Backo Palanca. You've engaged a lot. Some lie on their televisions, talk all kinds of things, promise to the citizens, and even though they're in government in Vojvodina, they haven't fulfilled it, and they don't even think of fulfilling it. I tell you in advance - wait for these results, and you will see who are the bastards and the primitives and you will see how the citizens of Backa Palanka in these elections on Sunday will show you what they think of you as the bastards and the primitives, who they consider the most valuable, the best, the most honest and the most honorable in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23889	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. A lot of people answered, let me, we had patience. I ask all MPs to wait. Twenty-one minutes, Mr. Wolfie, I mean when it comes to tolerance it's called a quad-erat demonstration, but please all. (Zoran Krasic throws out of place. ) I'm afraid, Mr. Krasic, that if you were acclaiming to the contemporaries something that belonged to a lot more than the last few years, I wouldn't exactly talk about it that way, but this is about a serious thing. We are talking about legalism here, that someone can less trust the president of the Assembly who represents him and seeks to do so with all due respect to the MPs, that he has less faith in his eyes and ears, and that he wants to believe to the extent that it already destroys the dignity of the assembly, the story of a minister saying something. This session began today by giving clear notice to the President of the Assembly. I've received assurances, don't let us look at the stenogram again, that in no way has the previous days been spoken, by the government's representative, an offensive sentence referring to the MPs, because in that case none of you should ask the President of the Assembly to do so. The President of the Assembly immediately reacts, as you yourself have said, on several occasions, the President, in addition to all the tolerances shared and chaired, from Mr Mihailovic to Mr Zankov, we seek to prevent immediately from this pay phone, as far as possible, that the MPs are injured. This is not a private assembly, you are certainly right, I was not born in Belgrade, but also how, like all of you, I share the belief that the responsible people are personally responsible for what they are doing and there is no reason to call whoever is responsible for them. Each time before the assembly, the speaker of the assembly will do what the law tells him to do, and he will inform the MPs accordingly. I did it yesterday because I promised the MP on Thursday, and I did it this morning, because I promised yesterday after the session. Also, this morning I said that I expected the heads of Parliament to meet, because there is no reason to burden the citizens with some of the ambiguities that exist and I am standing at your disposal. Also, the Legislative Committee will be, I totally understand what you're saying, Mr. Wolf, but anyway, the fact is, and I deeply believe that you're all sharing it. I guess someone said it by mistake yesterday – it doesn't matter if the pensioners get a day later, two, three days later. Listen, then I can say what some MPs said yesterday – my mother's name is Vera Markovic, she receives a pension of 4,300, and every day is important to her, as each of you went out and spoke. (Frislav Peric, from the place: Let her help her son. Yes, my son will help, but let me tell you something. Depending on the responsibility of each of us, we will see if our children will help us. I invite everyone to do our job responsibly. This isn't a private matter. I appreciate the MPs of all the parliamentary groups, I believe they are in a position to agree. For that reason, I have seen, Mrs. Snow White, I have heard this request, but once again calling for this home to do its job, because we have been chosen, let God not think that we are more concerned with some choices than millions of citizens who need to be cared for by what this congregation is doing. It is not the government that makes the laws, but the congregation, and it is only the work of this congregation that depends on whether the laws will be passed. That is why, once again, as I announced this morning, I call for consultations with representatives of the parliamentary groups until the Legislative Committee is completed at 11 am in the President's office. Thank you all for understanding. I hope we don't misuse this pay phone. I'm taking a break until 11:15. [[After break – 12,50]] Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, one notice, please, after a joint meeting, do not resign, please, individual consultations of the heads of Parliament are now being held and all MPs will be informed as compared to when they end, and we will invite the MPs to continue their work. So we're waiting for the talks to end. Thank you for your patience. I think you've had a clear statement, so as long as, after the talks of the heads of MPs, the MPs are not informed, of course, that until then, there is a continuation of the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Milos Aligrudic is asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23892	We have been witnessing these days that there have been largely discussions about the violations of the Rules of Procedure. Replicas were given to each other, and what caused this was said by the MPs themselves who responded for the word, either on the basis of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, or on the lines. Of course, this parliament serves primarily to do the job it is in charge of, to pass laws, to adopt laws that are on the agenda. The opposition's job is to attack these laws and use all available parliamentary means to do so and to indicate that the government is not doing its job well, and the ruling coalition is doing the job as quickly as possible, confident that those laws it makes bring citizens' interest. In the heat of the discussion, when it comes to the legislative proposals that are ahead of us, the MPs, ministers, speak someone in front of the government, in the heat of the discussion, there have been so far, not in this meeting, the previous or even in earlier councils, many cases of the need for certain words that are interpreted in a certain way and which, according to the estimates of the people who hear them, can be impressed, on their part, that they may be offensive. So, simply because the discussion is a bit of a controversy and sometimes it's very emotional and it comes out of the context of something that might, by some criteria, be considered a common practice. What I was going to say here, I came out first of all to do on behalf of the ruling coalition in this assembly, to say that I am confident and that I know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, not one minister from the government, or even one about some of the statements that he allegedly made here, that the ruling coalition never meant to offend any MP and that those expressions that were spoken of here, which were said to have been used by one of the ministers, that they were not intended for any MPs, and especially the voters who were elected by the MPs in this House. Of course, that's why I can say that on behalf of the ruling coalition I apologize to all those MPs who could in any way think that behind some expressions, and who could be heard about this assembly speaker, in the context of the presentation of those who spoke, in this regard we think of the minister who had been spoken of, I think of his presentation, that they could in any way think that this was relevant to them. I am saying this, first of all, for the reason that the ruling coalition has an obligation in parliament, and this is still the Jefferson rule, not only respects the minority, but also seeks to respect the rights of minorities in the National Assembly, and this is not just about minority rights, so those who make up a minority in relation to the ruling coalition, but it's about respect for the rights of MPs. So what I just said was about everything that was in the past, about what's happening right now, and about everything that can be in the future. So we can't, of course, start from the assumption that everything that we are exhibiting in this House will be done in such a way that it doesn't allow some kind of emotional exposure, and without that, the assembly debate would be neither attractive nor beautiful. Of course, I hope that this misunderstanding, and I am absolutely sure that this is a misunderstanding, will be resolved in this way and there is no reason not to commit ourselves to the work this Parliament is doing, with all the manners and ways we have become accustomed to. We can't be different and look up to someone else. We are what we are - the Serbian Parliament with all its weaknesses and advantages, in relation to all other parliaments in the world and that, of course, the opposition will use every argument to attack the laws of the ruling coalition and their proposals and submit amendments. And that the representatives of the promoters here, if it is the Government or the MPs, or representatives of the ruling majority, will use all their arguments and use the heat of discussion to oppose each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23893	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23894	I know, Mr. Aligrudic, that a stone has fallen off your back now. You've said what your political party thinks, and I know you've taken the burden of apologizing to the MPs of the SRS on behalf of others. Don't think I appreciate you less now, I appreciate you more than half an hour ago, because this was a difficult task to apologize for someone who didn't have the courage to come here and apologize. We will not stop fighting politically against the government of Vojislav Kostunica and, in particular, against the minister we are talking about here, from now on we will call him – the minister we are talking about. Our fight continues. Today we were very close to entering the extraordinary parliamentary elections. We don't mind at all. Another ruling coalition political party has said it does not mind either, so we are now putting the possibility of early parliamentary elections in the political engagement and in the Assembly and outside of it. I'm pleased with the apology that Vojislav Kostunica sent over here. I'm not happy that whoever did this didn't apologize. With Kostunica and your political party, I am in conflict because you are leading Serbia with parties who do not have the courage to apologize when they make such a harsh violation of the MPs and their voters. I am in a dispute with you and about what Serbia will look like after the next elections. I'm in a dispute with you because you're in bad company. If this is the attitude of all of you who are the majority of you in this assembly, then I accept that the MPs of the SRS, as well as their voters, who are convinced that the minister here thought of them, all apologized. We will continue to work in the congregation as we did yesterday, and this will be a reminder to all of us, especially to you who are in power. Everything you do today as a government awaits you tomorrow as an opposition. We've been in opposition for so long, it won't occur to us, when we're in power tomorrow, to arrange this for you in any way. If this scandal that we are now solving has served not to happen again, then the congregation has not lost a day of work in vain. If it doesn't serve as a science, I confess to you and us, then we just delayed something that's inevitable. Anyway, we keep working on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23895	Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move to a common principle search of 2-5rd item of the agenda:– PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNPAYED PARENTS AND REFERENCES OF PUBLICATIONS IN THE PUBLICAL DebT, SOCIAL SURVEILLANCE AND FINANCIAL SUPPORTS WITH DECCOM We will now continue the joint principled search on: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Employees under unpaid pensions and fines, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the commitments of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disabilities of Farmers established under the Laws of Social and Social Security and Security, on Social Security of Social Security, on Social Security and Security, on Social Security, and Security of Social Security, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the SRS, the DSS, the G17 plus and the SPS. The word is by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23896	The honourable MPs, since the ruling majority decided to bring together a debate on four laws, which is truly unnaturally common, even Thursday, when the debate on this agenda began, had two resolute ministers who should be present to defend those laws. That fact itself has shown how unnatural it is. But, what is, there is, we need to fit into everything that the ruling majority at the moment votes. I will talk about two draft laws, and this is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Protection and Social Security Act and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children. Of course I'll talk about each other individually. What can you say about these two laws? What is a common feature of these two proposed laws is projected to be increased separations for the social protection of families. That's definitely something to say hello to. Any increased separation from social protection funds, the pension-inhabited family fund in this extremely difficult socio-economic situation, in which Serbia and the average family are located, is valuable, regardless of the relatively few families or individuals will be covered by this increase. Still, it's of some importance. That intention should not be doubted. As for the proposal for a social protection law and the security of citizens, there is not much news, there is no major additional separation. The promoter gave a balance on how much separation will be increased in 2006. It's about 665 million dinars, based on more basics. What is the thing that citizens need most to be interested in, what am I going to talk about here, to make it clear to people what awaits them in 2006 of these changes? First of all, these changes concern the users of other people's care and assistance by the other person. Such users today have a total of 70,000 – 20,000 in the social protection system and 50,000 in the pension and disability system. However, it is not about the increased isolation of all these 70,000 users. It will refer to approximately 12.5 thousand users, and those with 100% body damage to one or more organs. These are persons who really require constant care and help from another person. In order for citizens to know what it's all about, it means that people who have total vision loss, the total seizing of half of the body, that is, the taking of legs, the lack of one or more extremities, etc. So these are extremely difficult cases and they predict a sensitive increase in the name of other people's care and help and it will be 70% of the average earnings in the Republic. This is not a small increase and it will really mean a sensitive improvement in the position of these users. What should be said here as a warning to the promoter, and even more to those who will be in a position to give their expert opinions and to make solutions to this institution of other people's care and help. Since this is a significant monetary separation, we are sure that many individuals, many families, will see in this a chance to improve their difficult economic position. We expect great pressure, both on doctors and on appropriate commissions. The promoter, in our opinion, would have to anticipate such a situation – that the funds he planned for the compensation for the work of the artificial organs in the process of exercising the right to an increased aid and care allowance will likely be significantly higher than these planned 1,650,000 dinars. When the amendments are on the agenda, we'll say more, we've put in an amendment that's going to tighten the procedure a little bit, that there aren't cases that have already been a mass phenomenon and still have, and that's that, with the help of falsified, or haired documents, don't come to this right. With one amendment, we have provided that, with the insight into medical documentation, not exceptionally, if necessary, but necessarily to achieve a direct review of the users by those commissions, but we will discuss this in the coming days. What else do we have from this law as an additional convenience? It's more of a mother's stay in a mother's home. So far, it's been nine months, predicting the possibility of extending it to 12 months. Third, the right to material security of the family and for users whose relative, legally obliged to support the family, is not available, either because he does not know the place of residence or is abroad. Then they'll make up for it from their budgets, so if they trace that bond, then they'll go back to the budget. As for the law on financial support for the family with children, there's plenty to talk about. The main thing is to redefine the parental supplement, to sort of change its nature, because of a significant change in the way it pays off. What is key to the paper is that the parental supplement now includes the child of the first order of birth in the family. In June 2002, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children entered into force. The law introduced a parental supplement for the second, third and fourth children. For that month – June 2002, nominal amounts were set at 50,000 for the second child, 90,000 for the third and 120,000 for the fourth child in the family. In October 2005 these amounts: for the second child – close to 76,000, for the third child 137,000 and for the fourth child 182,000 dinars. These are significant amounts, but we have to do one digression. Before the law was passed, the Children's Social Care Act envisioned some financial support for the family with children. These are some items that have been abolished by the Financial Support Act for the family with children and, in my opinion, are united with a parental supplement. What was suspended that year? A maternal supplement has been abolished, these are those benefits that have been paid to families who have not been in labor, cash compensation for newborn equipment has been abolished and a free stay for the third child in preschool institutions has been abolished. As compensation for that, therefore, a parental supplement was introduced. Of course, there's a child's supplement, there was until then, there is now. Its height was 900 dinars – 2002, and is now around 1,360 dinars, with 30% increase in the special category of single parents' children, foster parents and children's developmental impediment. In 2002, I think maybe an experiment was done, certainly in good faith, and let's not forget that this parental supplement had not only a function of family social protection, but was also designed as one of the stimulating measures of population policy. Not to open this topic about the tragic state of demographic development of Serbia, Serbia has practically had a negative rate of natural growth since 1981, first in certain parts of Serbia, Vojvodina, and since 1990-1991, we have a negative rate of natural growth throughout Serbia. So the parental supplement was the way to the unknown. A little time has passed since June 2002, and the government is going with drastic changes in the nature of this parental supplement. Therefore, a parental allowance is introduced for the first child of 20,000 dinars with one payment, but the parental allowance for the second, third and fourth children will not be paid once, but will be divided into 24 equal monthly wars. You can't say what's better. Probably all social security experts agree that it is better for the family to have a stable monthly source of income than to be one-time, even if it is a generous, payment. After this period, from mid-2002 to October 2005, maybe the government, or the resolution ministry, came to some of the indicators themselves, I do not have these statistical demographic indicators available to me, that this payment of the parental allowance did not respond to any of its intended purposes. We think we shouldn't be making such a one-time payoff turn right now and going to split into 24 equal months of war. With the amendment to this article, we have made a compromise solution, that one third of the planned sums be paid once, and the other two thirds are divided into 24 equal months of war. That one-third, which would be paid once, we might return, in a way, what was abolished in 2002, and that's the compensation for newborn equipment, and this extended payment would give even minimal, social security to families with children. What we didn't agree on in 2002, although there can be no solution that we know in advance will be good, or not from the point of view of impact on natural growth, is that the fourth child has been more betrayed financially than the third child. I think all experts agree that salvation for Serbia, that is, for all peoples with depopulation, is a motivation for the birth of a third child. Here the fourth child is more stimulated, and the experience and some logic suggests that, as a rule, families that have more than three children, away from being absolutely a rule, but probably that, looking at it this rough, families with four and more children may not be the healthiest family in the social, cultural view. The question is whether society, or the state in general, has motives and reasons to motivate families with many children more significantly. Of course, it would be ideal if Serbia wasn't in that situation. I'm aware that this kind of conversation can be misread, but I'm thinking that an accent must be placed on a third child. Time will show this solution. I don't think the government will accept this amendment that the parental supplement – one third is paid once, and two thirds in 24 equal months of war. If you would accept, regardless of all possible reserves, I think that solution would be much more favourable. What we have also suggested is that the parental allowance for the first child is significantly greater than is now envisaged, but aware of our economic situation, aware of the inability to allocate resources significantly from the budget, we have suggested that the money be reduced for the second, third and fourth children in favour of the first child, so that this financial motivation for the first child is greater. For what? Trend in Serbia is that it may not be in the first place for a small number of children in the average family. The trend in Serbia is to get married all the later, to get younger in the growing years of marriage and to make decisions more difficult, even for the first child. That's why we think it's best to stimulate the birth of the first child. However, there are no financial resources that will solve this problem on their own, because the reasons for the late marriage are on the other hand. In order for young people to choose to marry and give birth to children is not enough money to motivate them when a child is born. What's the prerequisite for young people having a roof over their heads and having a job. In both cases, the situation in Serbia is very bad, especially with regard to the high unemployment rate. Experts know that our families can be divided into three groups, such as the roughest ones, which, for various reasons, are difficult to decide on the birth of children. We have a group of couples who, conditionally speaking, have everything but they don't want the birth of children, they don't want because they have low reproductive norms, or a special system of values where for those people, priority is something other than the birth and raising of children. We have another group of families, or individuals, that have nothing and they need everything, they need an apartment, a job, and they really won't care about anything as high as the parent's allowance, even in the amount we suggested. So there is a need for strong, dynamic economic development to achieve something. There's also a third group of families who would love to have more children, but they need at least a little incentive. That society, or the state, can do the most. What we've limited ourselves to just financial resources, given in this form or that form, that's not enough. It takes a lot more, but it is a subject that requires much more time and probably a strategy and a policy of demographic development, including a special session of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23897	The word is from MP Toma Busetic, the authorised representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Minister Lalovic, was just now in the assembly a survey of the benefits of Serbian citizens from 200 passed laws in the Serbian Parliament during the term of office of the government. My personal opinion is that the largest number of laws can in some ways be called neutral, laws that mean adaptation, compliance with EU laws. A large number of laws, especially laws in the field of labour and social legislation, are rigorous, restrict pensioners' rights, unemployed, employees' rights and are mainly about laws such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, health insurance, labour, etc. If we can say for these laws in the field of labour and social legislation that they mean a significant reduction of rights, if we talk about pension law of pensioners, the Health Insurance Act reduces insurance rights, significant rights are abolished. If we talk about the Labour Act, employees' rights are reduced. If all of this is so, if we talk about laws that are on the agenda today, we can say for them that they are positive and that the benefits of pensioners and others, under the Social Security and Social Security and Financial Support Act with children, are small, but are still present. The fact is that paying back pensions is good news for pensioners, it's worth 23.5 billion for pensioners who are in the pension and disability insurance system for employees. It's about one and a half pensions and 20 billion when it comes to pensioners who are in the pension and disability insurance system for farmers. Although the cash payment provided for by these laws is essentially more unfavourable than the bond payment, yet our pensioners are very happy to accept payment in cash and for them is always a better solution, however unfavourable it may seem to them, and it is more unfavourable. Our basic remark, when it comes to the payment of pensioners in the pension and disability system for farmers, is that it was skipped in 2006. We're going to have some dynamics when we talk about pensioners who are in the employee fund, in fact their payoff starts in December of this year, it's divided into six wars, and that time is shorter. Earlier, when we adopted laws in this area, our remark was that we should not have employees having an advantage over agricultural producers, their pensions are small, these debts are large, they're over 20 pensions. Our opinion was that in 2006 we should also cover when it comes to these payments and that instead of four parts of the debt, we have five parts and that they simply pay four billion each year, starting in 2006, not five billion, related to 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010. Of course, the minister will say there isn't enough, it's not real, the funds aren't foreseen. We have budget rebalances and we can make this very easy to correct through budget rebalances. I repeat, first of all, because agricultural pensions are very low, it is several thousand dinars, and on the other hand we know that the pension fund is quite empty, and that the burdens of farmers are great, given their paying power, because it is quite certain that every person that works is much easier to get money than farmers. They make every penny big because we know that their products, however successful they have worked on their property, are relatively cheap and can't compensate for the great costs that lie ahead of the entire population. So, basically, we welcome these laws, but we want to draw attention to Minister Lalovic and Minister Dinkic that it doesn't take much to praise, that they have done something that the governments haven't done before. There's no room for praise. We know what time it was in the '90s, and we know that since 2001 and 2005, a thousand of the best companies, a thousand of the best companies, a huge amount of money from those sales has gone into the budget to meet these needs. So, if the SPS had sold tobacco industries, cements, brewers in the '90s, we could set up pensioners and many other requirements that came out of the budget. So there's no room for much praise, but given the current situation, that move can, in some ways, boast. On the other hand, when we talk about pension payments, the following should be said: these obligations are now less. We had an average pension five or six years ago, so at the time of our government, the average pension was 90% of the average salary. Already today, the average pension is, in some ways, 60% of the average salary. There is a key amendment to the SPS brought in in time in this assembly, where we said that the average pension cannot fall below 60% of the average salary. It's the most important and best solution for pensioners. It is quite unwarranted when we listen these days to the president of the pension organisation, Jovan Krkobic, who says that even the SPS has done nothing for the pensioners. That's not true. That amendment is crucial. This delay in the arrangement with the IMF was related to that amendment, because I'm almost certain that according to the Swiss formula, which was in effect until yesterday, the average pension would be below 60%, perhaps as much as this year or next. So neither are these obligations of this government the same that the system remained the same – the system of accounting and pension coordination. All these obligations are now significantly reduced and in some ways we have come to be able to pay off these back-up pensions. When we talk about these other laws, the social protection and security laws, this is good equalisation of the amount of funds for the assistance and care of the other person, when it comes to the use of these rights through the PIO system and social protection, the funds paid through the social work centre. It should be said that in this PIO system we have 50,000 persons who are users of a care and assistance allowance and 20,000 people who rightly use this in the social protection system. The supplement for other people's care and assistance in the PIO system now stands at around 7.5 thousand. This second in the social protection system – 4,600 dinars. Every alignment is normal, logical. It is not logical that one of the same rights, on a variety of grounds, regardless of where it is used, makes enormous differences, as the minister explained for differences between disabled fighters and civilian disabled people, that the same thing should be coordinated, of course not reducing the amount of money to the fighters. We always stand up for them because we believe that their struggle during the war was right, regardless of the laws that were passed in this congregation. What is important, regarding this law, I would also like to comment on the presentation of Minister Lalovic, who spoke on the Committee on Labour and Employment a few days ago about how we need to bring into line all issues in the field of social protection and that it is simply an unsustainable situation that the right is also used by those who are not the most likely and that many people are using certain rights that simply should not be used. The funds should be given to those who need them most. The minister spoke of what it looks like in a family that uses these various rights, on different grounds. He has the possibility to use the right material security, that material security is seven thousand dinars, and then he uses the right child's allowance, so the child's allowance is seven thousand dinars, and now, based on the parental allowance, if it's divided into 24 months, we take the right to the fourth child. It turns out that in some less developed municipality, such a family, using all these rights, based on social protection and social security, has a income of 20,000 dinars. On the other hand, in these municipalities, like the municipality of Lebana, Rekovac, Kursumli, there are many such municipalities where the average wage is very low, so people who don't work anywhere have twice as much income. but those who use various rights based on social protection and social security. It is somewhat right, but the government's representatives must also know that today's so-called every sum of funds is unthinkable. Believe that today and 10,000, and 15 and 20, does not mean any special social security. Today, even the salary of 30,000 dinars doesn't mean what, given that all the prices, the prices of electricity, the heating prices went 10, 15 times what they were five or six years ago. For example, the price of heating is now 40 dinars per square; in 2000 the price was 2.5 dinars. So, based on how many times the wages need to increase – they need to increase 20 times to replace those prices. What are we going to say about a large number of people who aren't receiving anything? In the morning, people wake up, young, old, middle age, it doesn't matter, 30, 40, 50 years, there's not one single dinar. I think those in Serbia are at least a million or more. They don't have any income. That's why I don't think there should be any specific restrictions in this area when it comes to social protection. Simply, try everything that everyone has certain means of life, minimum living conditions. If we're talking about the financial support of the family and this law, a good solution is for the first child. Based on the first child, the parental supplement is 20,000 dinars. We suggested that this sum be increased and 30 thousand dinars for the first child. We consider this to be the most important at first, that the highest costs for the first child, and that for each of the next children, however, in some ways, the situation is facilitated. On the other hand, this question – parenting supplement for the second, third and fourth children is relative, which is good. Is it good to get this one - time help, given the large number of young people, including other married couples who have no employment at all, no means of life? For them, 75,000, 180 grand for the fourth child, 136 for the third child, is an extremely important help. Again, if it's divided into 24 months, we have safer funding for bigger families, but this safer funding, for example, if we talk about another child, we divide it into 24 months, it turns out to be about three thousand dinars for another child, which is a little help for these couples, in this way regulated. We have some amendments, I think we'll find the best solution. The minister specifically noted that this parental supplement is very important, because this way we will speed up the birth rate. There are only a few municipalities in Serbia that have a higher birth rate than the mortality rate. We agree with Minister Lalovic that this is the most important issue today in Serbia, as important as the country's defence. We need to know, regardless of this financial support, which is important, that it is very important for our society and for our country to develop awareness of the need to restore the population, because we have numerous examples in the West, in Western Europe, above all. Here, in France and Germany is the same negative rate of growth. Social security funds are mainly used by residents of Morocco, Algeria and other African countries in France. There are no pure Frenchmen. It's the same in Germany. So it's true that financial resources are very important to rebuild the family, but it's even more important to develop awareness of the need to have us more, to speed up the birth rate, because for example, in the 20s and 30s each family in Serbia had five, six children. Today, to have a simple reproduction, we need at least four children per family. On the other hand, there are a number of problems when it comes to family expansion. In Serbia today, we have 300,000 abortions, violent pregnancy interruptions, and six marriages are marked by one divorce, which is many, 20 percent of the family is without offspring, and a large number of people have never concluded marriages. It's important to develop awareness of all these problems, that all of this be solved in the right way. At the present moment, every year we are 30 or 25 thousand less, in ten years it will be an entire one district. It's more than the Shumadian or Pomorava County, because these districts have less than 300,000 inhabitants. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: How much is the Shumadian district? He may be 300. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the post: 324 thousand voters. Take a look, Natasha, I don't think you're right. At the moment, Serbia must have a consensus when it comes to strategic issues. That's the question of Natalie. That's the question and the defence of the country. I see the issue of birth as well as the question of the country's defence. However, I think that today in Serbia the biggest problem is that we do not have a consensus on these most important issues, and certainly we do not have a consensus, primarily because we have all kinds of crisis of elites, the crisis of elites is everywhere and everywhere. The crisis is, when it comes to the political elite, the scientific elite, when it comes to every other elite, because otherwise it wouldn't happen to us, for example when we talk about the media, when we talk about how the media should behave, when we talk about these strategic issues. A few days ago on Karic's TV guests were Azem Vlasi and Mate Granic. Azem Vlasi grinned over Serbia's fate and predicted the future of 1878, he says, that's your original statehood, meaning, when Serbia was from Belgrade to Kruševac. Mate Granic, meanwhile, predicted that in these negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, America would decide, so he says, it is known that America will decide. Such guests on such television, it's only possible in Serbia and on some so-called. Serbian television. That is why I say, our biggest problem today in Serbia is the crisis of the elite, regardless of the responsibility of the people, the elite lead the people, and today we are at the lowest level when it comes to the elites that lead the country, and when it comes to politics and science, and every other area. When we talk about consensus, we need a consensus on many other issues, we needed a resolution on the protection of health, the right to the health of President Milosevic and the right to life. Today in Serbia, it seems clear to everyone that Milosevic in Kosovo and Metohija defended, above all, the country's territorial integrity, defending the country's sovereignty, and I guess today the last Serb was clearly terrorist in Kosovo and Metohija, and that the Serbian state was at the time dealing with terrorism. If we all know that, then it is entirely illogical that such a resolution is brought by the Russian Dum, and that in the Serbian parliament MPs are being denied. They're thinking whether it's necessary or not, and it's the right thing to do. When we talk about The Hague tribunal, it is clear to all today that the Hague tribunal is a political court, they have witnessed the criminals Fatmir Ljim and Musliu have been released, their Albanians and the Cypriots have testified about their criminals, but there is a clear view, all the commanders will be released and convicted by some guards. So we need to be unique about the issue and the issue of The Hague tribunal, and we don't have to look forward much, because now the Croats have captured Gotovina, Tadic welcomed the Croatian government as it did in the right way. They'll let Gotovina go, that's for sure, as General Blaskovic was released in time, sentenced him to 40 years, then took it off for eight years, then let him go free. So I'm going back to these laws, I think it's a key thing, because these laws are relatively positive, that they benefit both citizens and pensioners and social security users. But if we are talking about this area, the most important issue for Serbia is the rise in birth. This is a key issue, and I expect Minister Lalovic, from the current ministry, to make a strategic plan in this direction to start with growth and not to disappear as a state and as a people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23899	The word has the first National MP Natasa Jovanovic, a replica, then a folk MP for Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23900	For the sake of information alone, counterpart Bušetic said about the number of residents in the administrative area of the Shumadi County, so that is the town of Kragujevac and six forest municipalities, a data that is not correct – that it is less than 300,000 voters. There are 284,000 voters based on data from the last presidential elections, with what I assume is now, as far as voters are concerned, much higher, and the number of residents even by a third higher, because you have to keep in mind, colleague Bushetic, when you are already talking about this young age and children, that the future voter and child that was born today, as well as one who has six months or a year of age and who will one day gain the right to choose and be elected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23901	One moment, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23902	It's not that much, Natasha, it doesn't matter if I was wrong about 10 or 20 grand. The coastal district has less than 300,000 inhabitants, here is the Borski district under 300,000, Zaječar County below 300,000 inhabitants, Rasinski County, there is about 300,000 inhabitants. Today in Serbia, when we talk about districts that are below 300,000, of the current 22, if we don't count Kosovo and Metohija, there must be at least a dozen or 15 districts that are around 300,000 inhabitants or below 300,000 inhabitants. When I was talking, I thought the most important question was to point out that every year there's 30,000 less of us, and in 10 years, there's gonna be less of us for a whole county. I think it's an important point, which is what I wanted to say, and whether or not Kragujevac, I may have mixed up when it comes to voters and about the number of inhabitants. I think that the relevant thing about what I was going to say is that we are getting smaller and that our natality policy is a strategic issue for Serbia, as well as all the other issues we are considering, if we don't give real importance to this issue, it won't mean anything. We won't even be able to defend the country if there's four million of us in 50 years, and that's the prognosis. If this continues, we'll be around 3,800,000 and it's a disaster. Then we won't be able to implement any programmes, not economically, because without the defence of the country, without freedom, there is no economic development, no prosperity, no progress. We have to take care and talk about essential issues first of all, because if I follow every speaker now, so I find that some information is not true, we can report every day to any exposure and that's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23903	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23904	Mr. Bushettic, you're just wrong. If you are already from the speaker's position earlier, speaking about the position of your party, and I will present my position on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group or later in the day, or tomorrow, as one of the speakers, on the devastating social and national strategy led by this government and Minister Lalovic, I just have to tell you that it was unnecessary to go out of business now. I reacted from here to your intruder, which is probably what the stenographer recorded, and when I said the data was incorrect, absolutely not entering your story and your explanation of the legal project and acceptance and non-acceptation, because that's your party's thing, I said you were wrong, you told me from the pay phone, "Natasha, look at that a little." It's not right for you to talk to me that way, and when I look at not a little bit, but a lot – it's a piece of information that I just need to know and if someone wakes me up at three o'clock at night; I just said you made a drastic mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23905	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23906	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here are the laws that speak of financial assistance to families with children, in the law of amending and supplementing the Social Security Act of citizens and laws that regulate the possibility of paying off debt to pensioners. What's in common with all these laws? What is common to them, according to my assessment, is that they speak of the most vulnerable groups in Serbia and talk about groups that, in a specific way, and in any other way, represent a poor population group. Why is that? First of all, I'm gonna start with the kids. Of course, it is important that an adequate population policy is conducted in Serbia and the issue of birth is one of the most important issues in Serbia. In order to achieve more children in Serbia, we must first try to make sure that children who already live in Serbia live in a better and better quality way and I think that is our obligation. How do children in Serbia live today? According to some data, there are about two million children in Serbia and about 200,000 children, so close to 10%, lives below the poverty line. If that line were to rise just a little bit, there would be 200,000 more children underneath it. If we take poverty as a broad category, which is not only defined by some economic standards, but also by the way of life and the availability of certain institutions, from health care, education, culture, information and the way the environment in which the child lives, whether it is an extremely poor environment, such as some areas of Serbia, some regions of Serbia, if we would consider all this, then we would have before us the fact that about a third of children in Serbia live in a poor way, i.e., facing poverty daily. It's certainly a devastating piece of information for every country, and it's something we really need to think about seriously. I think it's something that the existing government and the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also other ministries, such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, are really serious about, and I'm going to support that later on. The poorest are, according to indicators of poverty reduction strategies, that is, research done at the time, children aged 10 to 14 and children living in families with a higher number of members. There's about 16.5% of children poor, and that's exactly the families we're talking about today. Of course, the poorest are children whose parents are unemployed and we have about 21% of poor children. What child poverty really brings, except that what in all of us, I'm sure, is a strong emotion of sadness, because you will admit, there is almost nothing sadder in this world than child sickness, above all, and immediately after that, child poverty. Certainly child poverty endangers their rights in all areas. So all children's rights are threatened by the phenomenon of poverty, but there's something else besides that, and that's the fact that children with poverty are struggling in different ways. Fewer children are struggling with poverty in a constructive way, thus trying to gain better education and to cope with the limitations of their environment, to achieve something in life, and thus to get out of poverty. Unfortunately, a number of children with poverty are struggling in a passive way, either by accepting it or by withdrawing it, which has no security in itself and thus has been despondent in the schooling process. It's a number of children who, unfortunately, don't have a great chance of getting out of poverty. There is another category of children, another way to fight poverty, which is a destructive, active aggressive fight against poverty, and these are usually children who fight, as I have already said, in unconstructive ways, meaning some social behavior and they also bring themselves into a marginalised situation. These ways of reacting in children create a vicious cycle of poverty and so on. transgenerational poverty, the poverty passed down from generation to generation. If you look from an economic point of view and from the aspect of society, these are the most dangerous types of poverty, because they put those countries into long-term poverty that is hard to come from. Such poverty in some African countries, fortunately Serbia does not have much of such poverty. So our poverty is much more flexible, certain groups of people go in or out of the poverty line. Transgeneration poverty, the poverty that is passed down from generation to generation, which is the poverty that is beginning to face in childhood and which is being passed on, is something that is a danger to every country. There is one study that deals with the ways children experience their poverty. I'll read you just a few of their definitions: "I don't have a ball for basketball and football, and I don't have anywhere to play"; "I don't have any new books, but all the old ones, in the sheets"; "I sometimes work at the market, and they give me a couple,"; "I help everything I don't have to be beaten"; "When everybody yells, I run off to the neighborhood"; "When I find a house, I take care of it,"; "We're poor, we have nothing"; "I don't want to go to the pool, because I don't have a bath, just some bathrooms," "we're all in one room, if we don't, then I't get cold"; "the roof leaks, so I don't have anywhere to sleep"; "when I say I't have to say I't have to be happy, and they say, so what do to you". Now, on this question of "what do we do to you?" I want to stay and say that there's a lot of things that can be done to change this situation. A family situation can be considered and it can be ensured that families with many children and families who are poor receive help. That's what we're talking about today. Of course, it is possible to work on prevention of poverty effects in the environments generated by poverty, and of course it is also necessary to work on the availability and improvement of quality and efficiency of social services for children. I'd say the current Ministry of Social Affairs has done a lot on all these issues. I would like to stress that, in addition to the national plan for actions for children, which already existed, local plans have been developed, which define that at the place, means where poverty is generated, in different ways and in different areas, we can fight against child poverty and the suffering that children have. I would especially like to stress the Protocol against Child Abuse, which this ministry has developed, and the government has adopted, which is also a significant step forward towards children living better in Serbia. Let's talk a little bit about this law, and I wanted to point out a broader problem, that financial assistance isn't always enough and it's not always the only thing that needs to be given to families who are poor and who have children. Of course, it's also a ceasefire, if we call it this kind of help, something that is necessary and necessary. What does this law bring? That's what many others have been talking about, I'll say it again. Addendum for the first child – 20,000 dinars, and we have already said that extras for the second, third and fourth children, which are 75 and 136, respectively, and 183,700, respectively, will be paid into 24 wars. I fully agree with the Ministry's estimates that this sum should be paid in 24 wars, not in one war, because, believe me, I've had opportunities, working with kids on the ground, to see that, unfortunately, no matter how often we have a different belief, parents don't always use all the resources they have to spend on their children. You will often see that some poor categories of parents, from, conditionally speaking, lower social classes, tend to use funds in different ways, well, among other things, and by providing themselves with, say, the opportunity to enjoy alcohol or other vices, not always to spend that money on children. It's something when you get into a situation to see that some parents don't care about children in an adequate way, then you always wonder why the state doesn't do something about it. I think this is a good way for the state to prevent such a danger and to allow the family, in continuity, to mean a family that has a fourth child, for two years on a continuous basis, to receive the assistance of 7,000 dinars a month, and I think it's a really good solution. I would like to point out once again the bill that the minister had already made here a few days ago, I think it is important that the Serbian citizens again hear, so the family that has a fourth child, which is poor, which has no other income, which is those families that he spoke of, will receive monthly material aid of 7,800 dinars, a child's allowance for four children of 7,000 dinars and a parental allowance divided into 24 months of war, amounting to 7,000 dinars. So the total income of that family will be 21,800 dinars. I think it's a sum that's certainly not enough to live well enough and well enough quality, it's certainly a sum that shows that the state cares enough about people who are extremely endangered and have a large number of children. I think it's hard for the state to do more than that on this financial plan. These receipts will be harmonised every 1 April and every 1 October and will not be taken as a basis for future foster care, maternity allowance, care and assistance and what the family receives as a compensation for physical damage. We have another change, and that is that people who have agricultural land up to two hectares in some parts of the country will also have the opportunity to exercise these rights. I would like to stress that there remains a provision that children with disabilities continue to have a 30% higher child supplement than other children. Now I want to talk about another law, a law whose provisions, first of all, refer to people with disabilities this time. In Serbia, by some estimates, although I have heard that these estimates are quite unreliable, there are about 350,000 people living with disabilities. Only 13% of people with disabilities do, therefore, exercise their right to work, only one third of those working have adjusted jobs to their lack. Only about 20% of people with disabilities in Serbia can use, say, public transport. First of all, I want to talk about how much Serbia is a country that is inaccessible to people with disabilities, unfortunately, still. I want to appeal to anyone who deals with this problem to actively influence that Serbia becomes available, that Serbian institutions become available to people with disabilities. I believe that the inaccessibility of institutions is one of the very large and fundamental problems that makes people with disabilities in Serbia invisible. When you go outside Serbia, when you go anywhere to Europe, you suddenly have the impression that there are many more people with disabilities in those countries, and then you become aware that they do not have them anymore, but that people with disabilities in those countries are visible. Unlike them, people with disabilities are almost invisible in Serbia. Remember the last time in the Serbian Parliament you could see a person with a physical disability or some other kind of disability. Unfortunately, both health institutions and local self-government are inaccessible, often social services, cultural institutions are not available. Then you have a situation where you see that a large number of our citizens do not exercise their basic civil rights, for the simple reason that we did not create conditions for them that the institutions of the state are available to them. So this is one of the huge problems Serbia is facing, and I think it's one of the problems that is relatively easy to solve. The availability of schooling is also very important, from this physical availability to that of another type of availability, or the adjustment of school facilities to persons with a certain type of disability, whether it is physical, whether it is intellectual development disorders. So, education is an area in our country that still needs to change a lot in order to enable inclusive education, i.e. education that will be adapted to not physical disability, but to the potentials that this person has, as preserved potentials, so that it can develop and provide its maximum. In that sense, hiring people with disabilities is another very important area. So what we should do for these fellow citizens is not make them passive and just provide them with material help, but include them in everyday life, in our country's work and in our country's activities, because a large number of them can make a big contribution to Serbia's development and that's what needs to be made possible. I express great satisfaction with the Ministry of Social Affairs in preparing the law against discrimination against persons with disabilities, i.e. the law that we will soon have on the agenda of the Assembly, but also the law on the employment of persons with disabilities. I believe that this will circle the continent that will allow all citizens in Serbia to exercise their civil rights. Also, I believe that the system of personal assistants is something that will allow for the full participation of people with disabilities in our society's lives, and I believe that this is a whole system of support that will certainly lead to the improvement of not only their position, but also Serbia's position as a country. The current situation shows that, unfortunately, a large number of families who have a member with disabilities are poor. As much as 70% of these families are poor, people with disabilities can't adequately school and work, because, if it's children with developmental or disability, their mothers can't work, they stay with them, because there's no adequate care for children who, for example, are severely physically or intellectually distracted. Therefore, adequate schooling should be made possible for children who have difficulty, but also for their families to work, normally live, and for family life to take place in a normal way. For now, 50% of the income of families who have disabled members are, in fact, disability rights – 14% of people with disabilities, 26% of people's care and help and about 14% of the social assistance these people receive. So that's something that needs to be changed, you have to go towards a more active approach where actually their incomes will be their profits, because many of them are able to make money. What is this law that makes and that's good? First of all, that's, I must say, putting out the fires where the problem is strongest and greatest. He's not insignificant, I have to say, because for families who have already found themselves in this situation, it's not insignificant means. So, children with disabilities are equated because, you've heard by now, depending on what system protection is being achieved, that height was different, in one system of 2,219 dinars, and in another 4,700 dinars. Now all the children will get this higher amount. It is about 5.5 thousand children with developmental difficulties in Serbia, which will be able to take better care of them. Then, reducing the difference between persons with disabilities who use those rights through a pension-inhabitation system, combat or social protection system. That's what they're changing now. About 12.5 thousand people with 100% disability will get a significant increase. So far, the difference has been between 4,600 and 7,400. So 12.5 thousand people will exercise their right and the amount will be 70% of the average profit, which will increase what people get between 60% and 160%. What I especially want to point out is that this law brings up a newspaper that says there are no restrictions in the number of foster families that can be engaged in childcare. I think this is very important, because it has become quite clear that foster families, as an alternative form of protection, are something that works best and is certainly saving in financial and, above all, in the emotional development of these children in terms of housing in institutions. So, there is no dilemma and this is a alignment with family law, which has also brought a significant paper on this plan. In the end, let's say it's age, not the importance of retirement. So, one of the laws in this package is laws that will allow all pensioners to have their pensions paid, or their funds, on condition that these amendments of the law will get the opportunity to exercise their right to do so. So 1.5 pensions due to an employee fund of 23 billion in total will be paid starting in December of this year, so in a few days. As soon as this law is passed, they'll be able to win those pensions. So, in December of the first war, in July of the second war and so until 2008, in six wars, twice a year all pensioners in Serbia will receive back debts. When we talk about the Agricultural Fund, it's about 20 billion, it's going to be paid from 2007 to 2010, in four equal wars, once a year. I would like to point out that all pensioners will receive a calculated interest of 8.5% a year starting on 1 January 2006. So there won't be any losses because the state isn't able to pay 43 back billions at this point. I believe that all of this, which we are talking about today, is very important for all of our citizens, not only for those whose laws concern us, because regardless of what G17 plus is known as a party dealing with the economy, economic stability and economic prosperity, we are absolutely clear that the power of a country is not in its economic power, but that the power of every state is seen, above all, in the way it cares about its weakest citizens. In that name, I expect that we will really all support these laws, that we will vote for them, with the hope that they will come into force as soon as possible and bring good to all of these people we talked about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23907	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a National MP, Stevanović Branislav. Let the People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23908	Ladies and gentlemen, a united debate on four very important laws, however, it must be acknowledged, is a small inconclusion of the government and the minister himself, because these laws, of this importance, deserve a much more thorough debate, especially when it comes to family planning, so help families. We've heard from previous speakers how many problems these are. As counterpart Bushetic said, unfortunately, we are losing to 10,000 years of population. It's an alarming situation. Of course, something urgent should be done, for a reason, if we take into account that many countries in our environment, above all the former Republic of the SFRY, have certainly adopted a national family planning strategy, and we, unfortunately, have not done anything yet, are just at the beginning. If it is considered that we have passed the laws on family and other laws that we are about to pass, we are already taking the first step. As for social protection for people with disabilities, we should really say a few sentences, since time is limited and the topic is very extensive, it should only be said that a large number of war people are very disappointed. They went patriotically to war, and here's what they've been through today, they just don't have to eat from the 1st to the 1st of the month, they don't have the most minimal economic protection of the state. Also, there is an urgent need to pass a law on the employment of disabled people, which is necessary, because we know that only 13% of people with disabilities are working in the country. It is necessary to urgently pass a law on the employment of disabled persons. Then, and the availability of people to institutions that physically cannot come into a room. These people need help, because they need help. When it comes to helping the family, the fight against the "white plague" is our inevitable. Of course, more motivation should be given to having children, especially the third and fourth children. It also needs to be solved, above all, the problems of young people – employment, housing problems. It should also be noted that rural areas, villages, unfortunately, must be recognised – each third house remains empty. Therefore, under the urgent need to include this law on the return of pensions to farmers in this action and pay greater attention to the village. It should be commended to the Serbian government for remembering our peasants, the people who carry the greatest burden in the history of Serbia, from the beginning of our country to today, and have had the slightest attention, must be said. Of course, although the minimum payment of these remaining 20 pensions, even to them and other employees, who were in social enterprises, as we call them today – companies, should be paid what the state remained in debt. In that direction, secure and return what belongs to them. Also, the PIO Fund law must be recognised that all parties in the campaign have made strong promises to meet pensioners. Unfortunately, pensioners are now in a position to start their own party. They themselves decided to fight for their rights, and as far as they're going to succeed, let them think a little about both the former and the current authorities, to meet them, to come to an opportunity to solve their problems. Of course, it should be pointed out, when it comes to paying back pensions, in fact, into a fund for PIO employees in social enterprises, that the government is going to meet, that many people, who have earned and long waited, come to retirement. Of course, in that direction it seems a big step. It's for all praise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23909	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zlatan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I would like to, before I move to a short passage under the proposed laws, to remind – just a few months ago in this assembly was a set of pension laws according to which the SPS had a different relationship. There was a bill on amendments to the Law on PIO, which we had a negative relationship with. We've intervened with amendments that have been adopted and it's a good thing they've been adopted. One was to postpone the application of the law in the number of years to retire; the other was to determine that pensions could not fall below 60% of the profit average. Then there was the Voluntary Pension Insurance Act, according to which we also had a positive relationship. It was the law we asked for, which is about the payment of contributions for employees, between 1991 and 2003. It's a great move this government has made because it has allowed several hundred thousand people to link their internship during that period. There were two laws on the taking over of pension-inhabitation funds of employees and farmers, taking over commitments by the state, as a public debt. And we supported those two laws. The first thing I want to point out publicly is that we are not creating the possibility of paying pensioners off this debt to these amendments to the law. Those possibilities were created then. Of course, we supported and had a positive relationship, because we felt that it was finally necessary for the state to recognise liabilities that were unmistakable to pensioners as a public debt. When the state does, it becomes a commitment not only to this government but to all governments and beyond. We were very pleased here. Just a few words, for the public, when it comes to debt. Mr. Minister, as I heard this formulation today, during the reasoning of this law, skipped an important moment, and was more detailed in September – debt to pensioners, from the PIO staff and pensioners, from the PIO Farmers' Fund, was in the most part created by 2000. That's true, but part of the debt came after 2000, that's what the minister didn't say: half of 2001's pension for employees and five pensions for farmers in 2003. But there's a difference. The difference is that by the year 2000, the debts that occurred were created in the time of the blockade, sanctions, civil wars in the environment, bombings, millions of refugees, and I especially note that no social rights were diminished. The difference between the ones that came after 2000 is that there was also a part of the debt, but at a time when there was nothing, no blockade, no sanctions, no anything else, on the contrary, a promise of huge aid, and not only that social rights had been reduced, but that the pensions of 2002 and 2003 began, respectively, by passing that disastrous pension system law. That was the story in September, not to repeat now. It's very important to know. Now a brief commentary of both the bill on the return of pensions as a public debt. When it comes to repaying the debt, relating to the PIO Fund of Employees, I want to bring out two positive and two negative sides, let the public know openly. In principle, we support the recognition and recovery of public debt, but what is at stake in this case. The previous law, since September, envisioned that pensioners from the PIO Fund should be paid into three equal wars: January 2006, 2007 and 2008, with an interest of 8.5% and in bonds. I heard the minister's argument that pensioners' associations and some MPs asked for payment to be cash, not bonds. I respect that, but I want to say that this is a more unfavourable solution, because when it's paid in bonds, when it comes, it's the same money that's finished, money as it is in this case, but the possibility that it can cash in early, which is what a pensioner will decide on. Of course, I also appreciate the safe mass of funds needed to pay off. But let's be clear and say that the positive side of this is that one-sixth of the pension will be paid immediately, not in January. It's a positive side that hasn't increased the total retirement period, and the negative side is that it's being paid in six, not three wars, and it's being paid in money, not in bonds, just to be clear. When it comes to paying back PIO farmers' debt, I have to say that this solution is worse than it was in September. It is positive that the total retirement period has not been moved, but we have to make it clear to the public that it is negative that the entire 2006 and instead of five equal wars – 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, are being skipped in 2006. I respect it as an argument that the decision itself to pay out pensions immediately for the previous month has significantly increased pension funds when it comes to pensioners and farmers, but it was also known when a law was passed on the recognition of public debt to pay out pensions. In that part we are not satisfied, we have submitted an amendment asking for the solution to be returned for five years, i.e. to be included in 2006, i.e. to be in five equal wars. Now we come up with one question, I want to ask publicly and openly, and I want to give the government a chance to give the public the right answer. Why do these laws change when everything we knew back then, we know now, and about that again two questions? First, if this is an IMF request, out of fear of having a cash coup in the crowd, I pray that it is publicly and clearly said that the public knows. Secondly, whether it can be found out what the IMF's final demands are. We listened to two or three months ago that it was the Pension Insurance Act, the Budget Law, and then the Health Insurance Act, the amendments to the Law on Public Enterprises, the choice of a Privatization Advisor, etc., to listen to almost the news that our government is looking for two more months of delays. For what? I think the public deserves it. I know the obligations of our country, the obligations of our government, which must be respected, but the public also deserves the right answer and to know the real reasons why it is. Just for a little while, let me look back at these two laws. When it comes to the law amending the Law on financial support for families with children, I observe it as explained in the explanation that the law is in the post of prevention, the turn of the white plague in Serbia. I agree with my colleague Busetic, the biggest problem Serbia faces and will face is the problem. I see it not only as an instrument of social policy but also as an instrument of population policy. For those reasons, I want to say again what's good and what I don't think is good. First, which is good, is that a parental supplement for the first child has been introduced and I give full support and commendation. There's no reason, because for someone to have a second, a third and a fourth, there has to be a first. In parallel, I don't think it's a good thing it's 20,000 fees, I think it's a little bit. Although the state is seriously dealing with these issues, it seriously comes into conflict with the problem of population policy, it must also have serious resources to find it. We've proposed that amendment, and we'll talk more about it when it's up, but at least make it 30,000. Secondly, it is said here that the law's solution so far was for the second, third and fourth children to be paid once, at the birth of a child. Of course, it's not a small amount. There's an explanation here that I can partially agree with, but not until the end. It's that there was abuse, that it didn't use the child, that it was used for other purposes. I can accept that there are, but that doesn't change the law. More than that, I can view it as a big commitment to a country that needs to be provided with large funds. At the same time, to be, or to use a child. I think it's a very long period of 24 wars, as scheduled to pay off a parental allowance for a second, third and fourth children. Someone has already mentioned it, the minister in the opening statement, and later on, for the fourth child, and very few in Serbia, it is about seven thousand, which is commendable for 24 months, but for another child – 76, or five, six thousand, to 24 wars, it is very little. So we've proposed an amendment to at least make some kind of scale, so that the other kid be 12 months, third 18, let's leave the fourth 24. Basically, for each one there would be about 7,000 dinars a month. Next, another question that was also present here, I must say I disagree. I believe there are serious abuses, and it's maternity leave. So far, the solution has been that the salary is at the height of the earnings they would have earned at the workplace. I realized here from reason that this is a serious problem, because some private citizens in Serbia have abused it. I'd love to, but I'm not in that power, I've arrested, I've punished, I've changed the law. Why? I don't think it's a good solution to punish those women who actually made more money in companies than the average. There's a lot of them. On the contrary, I think he's even more like it. What does this solution mean? That a woman who has legally had a higher salary than the average of the company is being punished for these abuses that have occurred and her salary is being paid back to the level of the average income of the employer, while, say, vice versa, it is not proposed. I don't think that's good, because it punishes the honest ones, the ones they really earned, and I'm confident, and I'd like to make a mistake, to be denied by the minister, that such women are much more, although I believe again that there are serious abuses of sickness benefits. Of course, if I don't talk about monthly coordination now, as it has been, so twice a year, it's not that big a problem, we'll talk about it when there's a story about the amendment. In the end, I just want to say, that I would like to leave my colleagues a few sentences concerning this law on the security of citizens' social security, that is, social security, full support, because it is a law where the state gives, in terms of the social security of citizens. Of course, it primarily refers to disabled people 100 percent. There's no reason to be against it and it's a restriction when it comes to foster families. I'd like to make a message. I think it's time for the state, or government, to take the social protection system as a whole, with a clear social protection strategy in order to systematically regulate social protection. I repeat, whenever I went out for a pay phone, and there were these kinds of laws, I was saying that one more time our attitude was known. A clear, strong, strong social policy at a time of transition is necessary, important. Without her, there's nothing else. That's when I was talking, and now I'm repeating. Reforms are necessary. It is necessary and social, but without social justice and strong, strong social policies, no reform will work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23911	The word has a minister for labour, employment and social affairs, Mr. Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23912	I just wanted to give a few answers and some information. First, this last thing a colleague said, so this government doesn't just mean it, it does. Not only does he feel that a strong social policy is necessary, especially when it comes to transitions, but, as you can see, we are doing what we think we are doing. I wanted to give you one piece of information. Here's the question about the IMF. Simple information to be clarified for Serbia's citizens. This extension of the two months we asked for, requested by the government, is a technical character, because the agreement ended in 2002 expires on 31 December 2005 and without that technical extension of two months, and this will all end in late January and early February. In this regard, there are no new ones, as well as what the colleague said, new issues, demands etc. It's practically all over. The last thing to do is select a NIS adviser, who was formally supposed to end up here around New Year's Eve. There are no new elements about it and this technical extension of two months is in the function I said, purely technical. As for these few other comments, first of all, I am pleased to see that all MP groups and all MPs who spoke support these laws. I think it is very good to achieve on these topics unity, not only when it comes to major political issues. I think that for the citizens of Serbia, these are some issues of vital importance and it is good that the Serbian Parliament is acting unitedly in this regard. Of course, as Government, we are aware of what is said to be the right answer to all our social problems is a strong economic development. Of course it's an alpha and an omega of everything we're talking about. We had in these two years a rate of social product growth of more than five percent. I hope and I am confident that this will be the case next year, and I hope that the next governments will also maintain, whoever is in power in Serbia, the rate of growth of the social product by 5% and more than five percent. Why does it matter? Because what has often been a topic here today – the issue of poverty reduction in Serbia is actually the issue of poverty reduction strategies. At the beginning of the document, which is often mentioned here, and we all often mention it, it is said that the condition is to really reduce poverty in Serbia, as planned, for the growth of the social product to be five percent a year, firstly. Of course it's good, it'll be good if it's more than five percent. More than five percent is great, because it speeds up our dealings with poverty. It's just about mentioning one more thing. You probably know, you saw from the press and the media that we were preparing a strategy for Serbia's economic development. This strategy of Serbia's economic development has two scenarios. One is a scenario, if it's five percent of the rate of growth of the social product, when we're going to achieve and what we're going to achieve, and the other is the scenario, if it's seven percent, what we're going to do and when we're going to achieve. So, basically, the question of all the questions is actually what will be the rate of growth of the social product or translated into a clear Serbian language – how quickly we will increase the cake we bake during the year so that we can share what we are talking about here today. The government of the Republic of Serbia is primarily in this function and the whole plan for 2006 is in that function, to create conditions for the growth of the social product to be such – more than five percent if possible and at least five percent. It's just that. Otherwise, in my deep belief, to a large extent, the problem of the white plague, mentioned here today, is, above all, the problem that lies in our heads and our souls, and I think the question of creating an atmosphere where young people will be filled with hope and measure to expect them to live a good, better life in this country, is that this is the first thing we have to do. And this government and any other government must awaken that belief in the young world. As you know, trust is easily lost and difficult to achieve. The youth in Serbia lost confidence in her own country 15 years ago, and then she lost it thoroughly, and continues to move out of Serbia, and now all together need to regain the trust of that youth in their country and their society. I think it's actually a question of all the questions. What we're talking about today is some help, some support from one or the other, similar, better or worse, but I think the real problem is on this other side, and we have to make an effort to restore their faith in a better future in this country, and that's the key question. How are we going to regain that faith? Something that's real, what happens, not the story, not the promises, because we're very prone here, especially in politics, to have big promises, big stories, and then nothing happens or gets worse than it was before it was told. So we simply advocate a more real policy, but what we say is that it does. That's the way it is with these givings. Some colleagues said it would be better if there was more for the first child, of course it would be better. It would be much better if in Serbia the average earnings would be 1,000 euros, not 200 euros. Of course it would be better, it's just a question of how to do it, how to create a situation for the average salary in Serbia to be 1,000 euros, there we obviously have complete unity in this hall, of course by work, compared to work. As for the amount for the first child, let me just say for the public, why it's 20,000 dinars. Because at this point in time, the entire territory of Vojvodina, all municipalities, have a decision to pay 30,000 for the first child, and this 20,000, that's 50,000. In central Serbia, too, a number of municipalities have already introduced the rule and is paying 30,000 each, I believe other municipalities will be likely. A large number of municipalities in Serbia at local level pay for the first child, 30,000. So plus this 20,000 -- that's 50,000, and that was kind of a reason when we did these things. As far as this second section is concerned, about pensions, just to comment, we've been and we're in a position to find a solution to pay off that debt to people. The original idea was with these bonds, which is mentioned, and in the meantime, after all the talks and negotiations, there have been some estimates and now practically all the funds we can get anywhere, we're pulling for this payout in December, for pensions. It's simply an assessment that it would be too much of a blow, as my colleague mentioned, because of the macroeconomic effect, and that's why we're going in December with that part, and in July next year with the second part. Basically, they get what they usually get, so the whole amount. I wouldn't speak and bid on who's guilty or not guilty of debt, the point is to pay people back because I think that every government is trying to lead the continuity of the previous one, because logically, the state is permanent, governments change. So the idea is to pay that debt back. And what's being ignored here, because of the farmer, because they're often talked about here. Two things happened. One thing is that we're going to pay them back by paying them back, but secondly, more important than that for these farmers, because we're skipping 20.5 months, the pension they're getting now, so this was January 2004 -- the last one, it's significantly increased compared to the one we'd get if we hadn't done what we did with the debt. So, of these measures that we're taking right now, em benefits 200 and a few thousand agricultural pensioners, who are now going to get a significantly higher pension while we're talking here, em will get that 20 debt, which I'm talking about, so these are the direct material benefits for a large number of Serbian citizens. I guess that's why there's support here for these solutions. One more thing to mention, which is often omitted from sight, these families that receive certain social benefits also have subsidies in paying certain costs, heating, electricity, etc. So, just so we know, we're also looking into how this country is running social policy. I think we've shown these laws ahead of you that the state intends to lead a serious and strong social policy. Of course, it takes into account what everyone has pointed out, that the problem of the white plague is Serbia's historic problem, that the goal of this country is to have, if possible, an average family with four children. I was saying, when I first talked about this, that if we had over two children per family, we would prevent further losses of the population, it wouldn't increase. How do we stop it, for how long? It takes at least seven or eight years to have an average in the family of more than two children, so we can stop the disaster that's happening to us. It is only with four children that we will come, or come into a situation, that we are essentially growing the number of people, which is the normal interest and goal of every country, including Serbian ones. So I'm just talking about what kind of size this is. I hope that's what we should keep in mind when we're talking about people with disabilities. So what has been mentioned here by the MPs as issues that need to be settled, all of this will be arranged, in this parliament will come. So, the law on employment and rehabilitation of disabled people you'll have in the spring, if God gives you health, the law on preventing discrimination against people with disabilities is in the congregation procedure, we're not here now, we'll arrive next year, it'll be brought in. So, we've been systemically editing for the first time, basically, the position of people with disabilities. For example, among other things, the information works, about other laws, just to mention, which do not fall within this ministry's domain, we take care and follow what happens there. So, for example. In the Construction Act, in capital investment, we agreed, there will be provisions that will finally be introduced in Serbia to reverse the humiliating situation to remove architectural barriers, so that our fellow citizens with certain handicaps can use institutions, services and be equal members of society. I'm just saying this to keep in mind what this ministry and this government are doing when it comes to these issues. That's it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-13-0.u23913	Since we've already been over 1800 hours, we're finishing today's work. Continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 peoples. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the common principle search of the 2-5th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE PREFERENCE OF UNPAYED PURPOSES AND THE REFERENCE OF PUBLICATIONS IN THE PUBLIC ASSISTANCE, SOCIAL PROTECTION AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY WITH DECOM The Word has a National MP, Zlatan Jovanovic. Let the People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic be prepared. Here you go.
