ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, on the basis of Article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 7. It's a draft labour law. The article reads: "The Association of Employers, within the meaning of this law, is considered an independent, democratic and independent organisation in which employers volunteer to represent, improve and protect their social, economic and other interests." The amendment to Article 7 is fully analogous to the amendment to Article 6 of this Act. The only thing that is said in Article 7 is about the employers' association, and headed by Mr. Karic and other newly-compromised Serbian tycoons, who have made themselves rich overnight and are now joining forces to protect their wickedly acquired capital. Unfortunately, for now they have managed to take under their own and leaders representative unions, so that the definition of their association is changed, instead of the word "democratic", the word "tacun" is put in place, so they would get the right definition that reads: "The Association of Employers is considered an independent, tycoon and independent organisation". So, from whom they should be protected, when many of them use cheap labour and do not report workers for social and pension insurance. They also use a difficult economic situation, and workers are blackmailing low-income workers. So I would like to appeal to Mr. Minister and the Serbian Government to accept most of the SRS amendment, because our goal is to reduce social differences and provide more protection to the worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11603	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have seen that the amendment of Zlatko Radic, the MP of the SRS, Mr Minister, is very meaningful and, right to tell you, has explained it so well, so I simply couldn't resist saying the names of Bogoljub Karic and his association, and the employers he gathers. Because, as Mr. Zlatko Radic said, he not only cannot be a representative association of employers, but he really represents a big deception for Serbian citizens with his demagogue story. A man swept into huge capital, acquired in a suspicious way, and a man who, through political and demagogue stories, who can least be called political, deceives Serbian citizens. It is therefore totally unacceptable that in the Bill for someone like Bogoljub Karic, who in the way of buying and kidnapping MPs, that is, it is his intention, but we hear that there are perhaps those who are willing to accept such an offer, wants to create a political party in this assembly of parliament, probably aware of the fact that in the elections that will follow, how things stand in the course of this year, they cannot gain the confidence of the citizens, because so far, like Zlatko Radic and all others, they will expose his unholy intentions. But it is not just the case at the level of the Republic of Bogoljub Karic, because there are such examples in many other cities and municipalities. Namely, when she launched a campaign for local elections in Serbia's cities, the smaller associations of entrepreneurs and employers focused on one or the other side. That was the case in both the town of Kragujevac and many other cities in Serbia, both in Cačka and Nis, and it is simply not good. Those who want to create conditions and a business environment, and above all legal frameworks, and those who have the most honorable intentions, have to stick to it and, in accordance with their capabilities and opportunities that are dictated by the market, which are really very bad because of the general economic environment, provide workers with compensation for their work, i.e. for the qualifications they have employed in their businesses. To declare themselves a democratic association, so that the decree serves them to run to one side or that side tomorrow, so that they may be small Karici, who deceive both workers and all voters in Serbia. It is simply unacceptable and therefore it is necessary to accept the amendment of MP Zlatko Radic, in order for this member of the law to be given the appropriate form.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11605	One moment, Mr. Markovic. Mr Krasic answered about this amendment. Mr Krasic, here you go, and it applies to all MPs, please, you are all aware, both of you and your parties, how important it is to discuss this law by keeping the letters of the law, because it is crucial for the employees and the unemployed, and I ask you to stick to the subject and not to turn away from it. Simply to help the citizens of Serbia as soon as possible, which you stand for. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11606	Apparently, it's in art. 6th and 7th most controversial word "democratic." It is, because it is not clear in what sense this word is used. She has someone original and even portable. So freedom, it means that people are asked, that people decide, and someone interprets it as a term that indicates that there is some form and some procedure that is respected. Unfortunately, in the last 15 years, we've had a pretty bad time with that word. It was enough for just someone to say - I'm a Democrats, so probably all they're saying is a democratic standard. Well, if democracy is a procedure and a decision, then under democracy we had a vote from Bodrum and Thessaloniki. If democracy means that, then we have an employers' association, where one brother is president, another brother is vice president, third brother is also some official, so we don't know why it would be a democratic organization. In what sense the word "democratic" is used is unknown to us, except that the bill said it was a request from the social partners. So they wanted to put that word as one party, explaining that they were the most democratic. Since we are in the field of Article 7, which refers to the employer and their organisation, then the word "democratic" should be in some causal and consequential relationship with the words that also stand in that sentence, which is a voluntary organisation, that members have voluntarily joined. Then we already have a Serbian Chamber of Commerce where there is no volunteering. There's a duty. So she couldn't be within the meaning of Article 7 of this bill, that employers' association. What is characteristic of such an organization? That employers are probably interested in organising themselves to protect their interests. What's their interest? It's probably some professional interest, and it probably doesn't take anything else. As a group of people, they are able to express, define and describe their interest and what they need to voluntaryly unite, join, take some organisational form and thus prove that they are capable of fulfilling obligations, where the association appears as someone who fulfils obligations. If that's the case, then this word "democratic" shrubs, it doesn't belong here, because it immediately asks questions -- and what is the guarantee that this organisation will be democratic. Whether the guarantee is a statute, whether the guarantee is rules, and if it is said "democratic", then probably all should participate in some choice in the decision-making. No matter how voluntary an organization may be, it is not known that everyone participates in the decision-making process. So now that I'm not making some broader elaborate on what all this could mean in this context when it's written "democratic", we've asked the amendment to delete these words both in Articles 6 and 7 because they can only create a ban. They can create a confusion like the one that happens when a three-year-old draws a horse, so since no one can recognize it, he writes below "this is a horse" to recognize it. That's right with some parties. They don't have ideology, they don't have anything, but they put the "democratic" in order to know. It's enough to use that word and it's all clear. Now if we go with that logic and that manner, which wouldn't surprise me, since the economic adviser of the President of the Republic is headed by that chamber, the former minister, there's a lot of exes there, there's a gap to lay low until something else happens, they're going to come back into play because it's quite invested in them, they're educated abroad, prepared for this. It's necessary, then, to get this out, because in this context absolutely doesn't mean anything, except it can mean the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11607	I thank you for respecting the democratic procedure. Here you go, Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11608	I have a need to explain, since it's debated. 6th and 7th, and they think "democratic" in this context. Two things. When it comes to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, it cannot be in the function of social dialogue, simply because of the word "good enough". Yesterday I explained that only employers' associations formed on the principle of volunteering can participate in social dialogue. Since Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is not formed and does not exist on that principle, it cannot even participate in social dialogue, which means that this does not apply to it at all. Let's just put it aside so it's clear. As for the very use of the term "democratic", its purpose and function, let me briefly explain. He's got two. So, the basic thing is setting the conditions for this organization to be voluntary, as it says here, and to be democratic. The term means this: that its functioning of the interior should be on democratic principles. What are these democratic principles? These are some general standards, and here, colleagues from the Radical Party mentioned a part of it. For example, the right for each member to choose and be chosen, to decide on democratic principles, mostly and so on. So here the term "democratic" refers to internal relations in these organizations, both in trade unions and employers' associations. It is simply a request from the state that these organisations operate on democratic principles. Why does it matter? Because if you're looking at the whole of the law, that an association would be representative and that would essentially go into the function of the state, the whole system, the state lays down conditions. One is the number there we have, and other conditions are to be on the principle of volunteering, that internal relations are based on democratic procedures. It is simply a public requirement by the state, and in this sense the word "democratic" has been used, and it is fully in place, because it is simply a requirement of the state that internal relations must be on democratic principles. I needed to explain it. Just one more note. As mentioned in a particular context, a certain association of employers, not getting into the elaborated thinking, has thus far been the property of representativeness, when it comes to employers' associations, only the Union of employers of Serbia has acquired. Information for you, none to this day the other association has acquired a representative property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11609	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11610	President, I had to take this, because we're obviously talking about different things. I wasn't even talking about the representativeness of an association that claims to be an employers' association. There are provisions on representativeness at the end of this law, what the minister did not understand in this amendment to the SRS, and where we insist that this be thrown out, because it doesn't mean anything. Of course, it is understood that each organization has its own organisational structure. It can be more or less democratic by some of our criteria, by each of us individually. Don't make a fetish out of something. On very specific examples, I'll tell you. We have a party that says it's a democratic party, and in the course of the election in that party...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11611	Mr. Krasic, don't be angry, please, we said last night, all the parties in this assembly are democratic parties, otherwise they couldn't be represented here. It is quite clear and we have no reason to distinguish between parties in this way. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11612	President, you are unnecessarily afraid that what I say will cause any replica. I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11613	I'm just taking care of article 100. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11614	I'm just talking about the naked facts. I don't name any party. If that's your guarantee. We had a situation to conduct elections in the party, and apparently the forged elections, and then the former president left the party, and after a few years the same president, the one who was then elected, allegedly falsified as president, secured the counterfeit again, and the other man left the party and made a new party. In public, it all sounds like democracy, that it's democratic. I don't want to mention names because they're recognizable, but please, we're putting everything in a democratic basket. It's not all democratic. Guys, it's not enough to write that it's democratic. What is the guarantee that democratic elections are in the union? What is the guarantee that they democratically came to some decision? They've come to their decision through their organs and why we have to put in democratically. Whether that is how we want to strengthen their views, their decisions, that they allegedly have come to those decisions democratically. How can some association of businessmen, employers, come democratically to some decision, when the nearest family is running everything and everything. I don't know what links between democracy and employers' social interests. They have no social interest. It's a special social group, a microsphere, thinking about money, profit, and the other doesn't interest her. As in the previous article, cultural interests of employees. What black cultural interests, those people watch how to get that minimum price and that they can survive. It's not all about the law, and something isn't the place in a certain provision of a member of the law. Democracy is a concept of these two members.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11615	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? By amendment? To Article 7? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11616	I'm an MP in front of the SRS, Vojislav Milajic. As for the minister's claim that the state has made a request in the sense that employers' associations and trade unions must, according to their internal structure, be democratic, not true but vice versa. On behalf of the Government, which is why the amendment to Art. 6 and 7 literally states: "The concept of the employers' association in the draft law has been established in accordance with the requirements of the social partners, i.e. the representatives of the employers' association that participated in the preparation of this law and which requested that the employers' association be defined also as a democratic organisation. "So it's a completely opposite thing. The state has not asked employers' associations and trade unions to be democratically organised, but vice versa, employers' associations have set up an ultimate ministry and a state request to join them. Six and seven, and here, specifically as it relates to the employers' union, it says they are a democratic organisation. Things are completely the other way around. As for the representativeness, representativeness of unions and employers' associations, it was determined by ordering security who could enter the ministry and who could not. Those designated to be representative trade unions or employers' representatives, who passed security, were identified as representative representatives, and those who could not pass security, could not be representative representatives. It's only for the sake of truth as it determines the representativeness of these employers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11617	Thank you, Mr. Milajić, I'm sorry I didn't see you as soon as you answered the word and I forgot my last name the moment I announced you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11618	Just one sentence, the truth works. Therefore, representativeness has not been established in the department's premises at any time. You should know that representativeness is determined in union rooms, one, the other, the third. Therefore, I would ask that we respect the facts and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11619	Thank you, I am taking the opportunity to welcome the presidents of the union who are monitoring the work of this session. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 9th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Bojan Kekic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11620	The Honorable President, fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, is the essence of the amendment 9 that provides for certain minimum protection for workers, i.e. that anything provided for by this law could not, or by any collective agreement, change. The point of the amendment is to insert a labour contract, which would mean that employees cannot have any less rights than are provided for in this law. For reasons of overallity and legal certainty of employees, as well as certain precision in the protection of employees, I propose that this amendment be adopted. It does not change the essence of the law, and erasing attitude 2 makes it easier to interpret, i.e. predisposition that this law is better and easier to understand. The bottom line is the norm, more than the scope of the other provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11621	The word is Mr. Bushettic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11622	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of our amendment refers to precision. Regardless of the explanation given by the promoter, we believe that we are right. The article itself says: "If a general act and certain provisions determine more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down in the law, the provisions of the law shall apply. "Then this second position concerning the labour contract and the provisions of the labour contract. We have proposed the following solution: "If a general act or a contract of work, or certain provisions thereof, determines more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down in the law, the provisions of the law shall apply. "We believe that the amendment lays down the obligation to apply the provisions of the law in cases where the general act or contract of work determines more unfavourable working conditions. Deleting Article 2 is proposed because the position of 1 of this Article clearly defines the futility of certain provisions of a general act or of a working contract if the rights or conditions of work are more unfavourable than the conditions and rights laid down by law. So we believe that in the amendment we have clearly and precisely defined the ratio of the general act, means the rules on work and collective contract and labour contracts, with the law. If certain provisions of the labour contract determine more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down in the law, they shall be void and shall not be applied. The explanation is that this is all for the basis of a lawsuit. We believe that this is all to be solved precisely, clearly and that there should be a clear relationship between laws, general acts and individual acts. It's someone's opinion, so that we can improve this text with this solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11623	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, thank you. Alexander Djordjevic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Gjorgevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11624	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear citizens, the draft labour law is one of the most important laws the government has passed to the National Assembly. The Assembly should make a statement on this bill. The SRS has submitted a number of amendments to the draft labour law, noting that the law, according to the SRS parliamentary group, is not good. These amendments we have submitted aim to adapt this law to, above all, the conditions in which we live today and that this law aims to protect the interests of citizens of Serbia and workers. On the proposal for a labour law, I submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to Article 9(2), that the position is amended and reads: "If the labour contract contains certain provisions which establish more unfavourable working conditions than the conditions laid down by law and general act, that is to say, which are based on an incorrect notification by the employer of certain rights, obligations and responsibilities of the employee, the provisions of the law and general act shall apply." Recital: "In order to determine the futility of the labour contract, it requires a certain time. It is therefore necessary to apply the provisions of the law directly, i.e. the general act. In the field of working relations, procedures should be avoided before the competent authorities." Article 9, which is within the framework of this bill, in reality, because of the unscheduled judiciary and the marathon length of disputes, becomes meaningless without deadlines, so that the employees did not receive practically anything, and the employer is causing problems due to the occurrence of an undefined situation. So, as Mr. Minister explained in his opening statement, we should have thought here that we were in quantum physics class, that this law is one balance of condition, that it's like a clumsy going from left to right corner. You could have said a lot more plastic to find when you were giving an explanation for this law. You will have the opportunity, since you were not present yesterday as we exposed all our reasons for voting against, to hear about every member of this bill that we have submitted amendments on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. This law is important for all citizens of Serbia. We feel that it is not well-assembled and that it only partially solves problems, and we want the law to solve problems completely in the social sphere. That is also why we need to bring to the National Assembly, first of all, quality laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11625	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11626	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have heard, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment to Article 9 was submitted by MP Alexander Djordjevic. This amendment provides for the modification of the 2nd position of this member, in the case of a worker who has signed a single labour contract, and if that labour contract establishes more unfavourable working conditions than those guaranteed by the law, i.e. a general act, the SRS considers that the provisions of the law, i.e. the general act, should then be applied directly. The solution offered by the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is that, in that case, the provisions of the contract on the work of nothing. In view of the fact that the worker, as an individual, is always economically weak, that the labour law should protect workers and that he can never equalise himself with the employer, the question arises why the government wants the worker to push into the futility of certain provisions of the labour contract. That's not good for many reasons. First of all, it is not good that workers, or a good part of workers, are unable to do so, for a number of reasons. A good part of them doesn't have enough legal knowledge. Most of them don't have economic opportunities for that kind of thing. Anyone who's dealt with the judiciary, anyone who knows how long the work dispute is, even though they're defined as an emergency, knows they can get away with it for three or four years. Each of them knows that during that time you need to pay lawyers, that your amounts for ordinary workers are extremely large and that, simply, someone should, in order to come to these rights, practically, to lend the state, to pay lawyers, to pay court fees for three or five years, and that these costs of the proceedings may repeatedly exceed that amount of profit or any other right that the worker through this procedure wants to protect. Instead, the SRS foresees that in such cases the law, i.e. the general act, is directly applicable. Then it is completely unclear that this argument of the government where the amendment is said not to be accepted because the solution in the bill is more favourable for the employee. How is it possible that it is more favourable for an employee to establish, over three or four years and through a court procedure, that the provisions of the labour contract are void, rather than – by the fact that those conditions laid down by the labour law and the general act, which should in itself be a set of minimum rights to which the state protects workers – directly, in that case, implements the law, i.e. a general act. This is an interesting interpretation of the ministry. I think you should accept this amendment after all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11627	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11628	And this article shows the absence of a stable view of the rights of citizens regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You cited in your explanation as a constitutional basis only one member. However, it would have been much better if you had in mind the provision of the article. 35th and 38th. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the rights of employees are prescribed. We are, in fact, only in this law edits the way that we exercise that right. In Article 9(1), you are talking about more unfavourable working conditions, but in other members of the same bill, you must, in addition to working conditions, also state employees' rights. I can interpret these working conditions as rights, but then be the same when you solve the same matter, you prescribe. Put in those rights, too, so that the interpretation doesn't come to terms and some of the rights that employees have. However, Article 2 of this Article, which is mainly covered by this amendment, is extremely problematic. For what? Here, as a consequence, the futility of the labor contract is prescribed. I must tell you that the labour contract and its legal nature are regulated only by this law, but the Law on Liabilities is prescribed by the legal consequences of the futility of any contract, the provisions of Article 103-110, and you had to, when determining the text of this article, take into account the consequences of nothingness - restitution in the previous situation, the right to compensation, etc., to see if this is possible in the system of working relations. If possible, what period can be achieved and what effective protection of the rights of the employee. If only these two elements are considered, then you will notice that this solution is pointless and that it is not in the function of protecting the rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but above all in the function of possible abuses, delaying and non-resolvement of questions to the end. I need to draw your attention that even that worker who would initiate a procedure to determine nothingness, in our terms, is hardly able to stay in that company to work, with that employer. With this amendment, we have tried to draw your attention to another concept, that this law gives us the right and the obligation to regulate the way in which employees' rights are exercised based on work. [[Coughing voices: No microphones.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11629	We obviously have a problem with technique. We'll set a break for three minutes until the gentleman arrives from the service. I ask the People's MPs to take their seats, we continue our work. [[Pause.]] The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Dear Crassus, we'll give you this loss you've had.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11630	So, with this amendment, we only point out that the minimum of the rights laid down by this law always exists and that it does not depend on whether any work contract will be declared, or whether the court proceedings will establish that it is nothing. What does this matter? When the law regulates a way to exercise a right or some freedom, then the legislator is often authorised to determine limits, minimum, maximum, another technique is possible to determine a minimum that cannot be followed, a third option is possible, to determine a maximum that cannot be passed. Obviously, in this bill, the concept that this is a set of minimum rights and these minimum rights, namely the exercise of these rights, is guaranteed by the state through labour inspection, through the ministry, through the court, the state guarantees the achievement of this minimum of rights. As a result, because of the futility, these provisions are completely pointless, because these provisions lose the basic objective and the idea of this law, which is to protect the minimum prescribed by law. In this sense, we need to interpret our amendment as a means to improve not only protection, but to guarantee the obligation of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11631	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Momir Markovic, and then MP Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11632	First I'm going to ask the chairman not to touch those buttons there, because he's going to turn off the microphone for me, too. I am sorry that the minister is not here, because I thought from the previous amendment, the word democracy, which has been transformed into democracy, or democracy, I wanted to explain to the minister how far the transformation of the word democracy has arrived. That is why I will remain on the amendment tabled by SRS MP Aleksandar Djordjevic, more specifically by the government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by amendment of Mr. Alexander Djordjevic, the SRS has requested the direct application of the act that is above this. It's important to respect the supremacy of the acts. Therefore, if the contract of employment, in any document given to the employee, contains clauses which do not comply with the law, the higher legal act shall be applied directly. In the case provided for by law, more specifically about the futility of this part, an employee shall be referred to the court to demonstrate the futility of that part of the document he has received, that part of the contract or the solutions he has received. You know the proverbial speed of our courts, especially when it comes to labor disputes. This will take two or three years, and it's normal to prove or not prove that after three years of nothing. The basic question is, if it is a working relationship, or if it is about income, about the benefits it receives from an employee, the basic question is what to live on for two or three years, while the court dispute is going to take place; whether it will be after two or three years, and when it proves the voidness of that part, it will have any purpose. Therefore, Mr. Aleksandar Djordjevic's amendment is very meaningful, and I think it will at least improve this poor legal proposal. I propose that in the voting day, MPs belonging to the governing structure press the green button and adopt this amendment. Believe me, many disputes will be avoided, only by adopting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11633	The word is from Ambassador Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11634	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not sure that by adopting this amendment, we would avoid new work disputes. Namely, during the debate of MPs who defended this amendment and proposed that it be adopted, as one of the most important reasons for this amendment to be adopted, the fact is that many working disputes would be avoided, where employees would dispute certain provisions of the labour contract as nothing. If, as stated in Article 9, Article 2, certain provisions which are contrary to the law or which determine less rights than the law, general acts or are based on incorrect notification by the employer, the final outcome of these labour disputes, if these acts were disputed by the employee, would be invalid. What do we get if we adopt this amendment, where it's said that the provisions of the law and the general act apply? If the adoption of this amendment would ensure such effective protection and would remove such provisions from the labour contract. who would force and oblige the employer to apply the provisions of the general act and the law. It is mentioned that the employee is economically weaker, and there is no doubt that he enters this contractual relationship as such, and that the employer as the owner of the capital has a dominant position. The question is whether certain rights have been denied and whether the employer has led to the error of an employee in the conclusion of a contract on certain rights, whether there would be a possible agreement to remove these individual provisions or if the employer would simply blackmail the employee and say - I am right, as it says, it is by law, you have no right to conduct a dispute, you have no right to contest this. There is no doubt that by accepting this amendment, provisions that are more unfavourable for the employee could be incorporated, but employees would not have the right to dispute those provisions. As I said, there are no mechanisms to force the employer to apply the provisions and there are no mechanisms to determine that he correctly interpreted the law and that all the rights of the employee here are protected. In this respect, the provisions proposed in the law are clearer, as they allow employees to conduct the dispute and dispute before the court of a specific contract provision. As foreseen by this amendment, such employee rights are not available and the simple question is that the whole debate between the employer and the employee of certain provisions would eventually end. Perhaps the employer would eventually resign, referring to some of the provisions provided for in the law. In this respect, it protects more effectively the rights of the provision which is in the proposed law, more specifically in the position of Article 9(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11635	Replica was reported by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11636	I apologize to the MP, Mr. Palalic, but he didn't seem to understand me very well. Here is the essence of the following, if we were to adopt this amendment, then the state is obliged to implement the contract. If we did not adopt this amendment, there would be evidence left on the worker. First, how it's gonna go. It is very simple, the inspection as a state authority, at the moment when an employee complains that it is not in line with the higher legal act of the solution he has received, comes and orders his employer to suspend the implementation of such a decision and to emulate the next decision with the law. In this second case, we refer the court's employee to prove three years of evidence. The lawsuit and the court's solution, and in this case, if we adopt Mr. Aleksandar Djordjevic's amendment, remains as an option if the worker is unsatisfactory, and in this case we directly force him to court and trial to prove it. On the other hand, if we were to adopt this amendment, the court's decision would only be decorative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11637	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Hranislav Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11638	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Serbian counterparts Hranislav Peric and I have submitted an amendment to delete Article 10. That member is said that a special collective agreement cannot lay down less rights and more unfavourable conditions of employment than the rights and conditions laid down by the general collective agreement. Those same provisions apply also when it comes to the relationship between a single collective agreement and a specific collective agreement. In some ways, the proposer in this article determines the hierarchy of acts of collective agreements, that the general collective contract is the most significant, then special and individual. We believe that this is excessive, that it simply implies the hierarchy of acts and when it comes to collective agreements, that a special collective contract cannot be contrary to general and individual agreements. However, we could withdraw this amendment if the motionor, or minister, accepted that he did this for special reasons. We had countless violations of the Constitution during 2001, 2002 and 2003. We had a situation in 2001 that the regulation was above the Constitution. This happened during the extradition of President Slobodan Milosevic. So, the regulation was above the Constitution, so perhaps the minister wanted to make it clear here that no more unfavourable working conditions can be determined in an individual and collective contract, less employment rights than in a particular one, or when it comes to relations between a specific and a general collective contract. If this is about being clearly precise, because we have one bad experience, then we would accept that this amendment is withdrawn. On the other hand, it's not just about this member. We globally believe that this labour law is too broad, huge, and no law that is so wide and massive, with a large number of members, is guaranteed to be a good law. For example, the Labour Relations Act, which was in force until December 2001, was clear, concise, precise, excluding all rights that guaranteed employees, but the law, for example, had 141 members. Even this labour law, valid, has 181 members, and this law has 285 members. I think he's big and he's not much of a recommendation or a guarantee that if he's big and big, he's now providing the widest explanations and guaranteeing the greatest rights. On the contrary. We think the 10th term is too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11639	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11640	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11 and this amendment is directly linked to the amendment to Article 9(2), which requires the direct application of the labour law, i.e. the general act, in the event that the individual labour contract provides for smaller rights for workers than the minimum of how the law and the general act are guaranteed. Article 11 has two positions. The first point is that the futility of the labour contract provisions is determined before the competent court. As you have already heard, the view of the SRS is that these proceedings take too long, that workers do not have enough economic opportunities to engage in such disputes, that it would be a much better solution to apply the law directly, i.e. a general act, and that it controls labour inspection or, if the worker wants to, it certainly has a legal opportunity to engage in judicial proceedings and to exercise one of its rights. A second stance, also required by my amendment, says the right to require the determination of nothingness does not go out of date. Legally speaking, this is completely pointless, because what it means is that the right to require the determination of nothingness does not go out of date. Does the worker have any particular interest in determining that the provisions of the contract are nothing and doing so, for example, since you say it's not outdated? And I don't know if you predicted that maybe his universal Successors have the right to demand the futility of the labor contract, whether someone will do it after 20, 30 or 50 years, and that's the whole point. The essence of workers’ rights is that they exercise their right, or claim. So, if his contract of work has denied him the right to a vacation, if he is determined to work more hours during the day than he can under the law, if he is given less wages than the one legally prescribed as a minimum, he has an interest in achieving a claim, means that he can make a profit difference, the right to an annual vacation. The establishment of nothingness, in itself, 10 or 20 years later, means nothing. Also, we all know very well that they exist in the Law on Liaison of General Provisions on Obsolescence. Is it possible that these provisions, which you are now predicting, are delegating those provisions on the limitations of the claim? Of course not. If we keep in mind that since 2000, you've left a million people out of work, that you've made the most of these people happy with social programs and severances, that the largest number of people with 20 or 30 years of employment behind you, with 50 years of life, that the severances have long been spent, that it's the most convincing thing for such people to come to work now, do you really think that when some of these people get hired, they're going to sue their employer after a month, two or three because the provisions of the labour contract don't respect the minimum that the law, or general legal act, guarantees them. Do you think someone's going to get into such an adventure and do you think that adventure in any case could end up positive for the worker? Workers, precisely because they do not have the opportunity to get to work, accept that they are not registered at all, that they are neither paid socially nor retired, accept incomparably worse working conditions and worse places than those that correspond to their professional prepared and knowledge. They will never, at any time, be able, based on the provisions of this law, to sue their employer and to exercise their rights. If this member doesn't mean anything, and it's clear that it doesn't mean anything, we've heard it already and the law is too big, then I urge you to delete this member. You will do on one hand a good service to the workers, and on the other hand you will improve a little bit and shorten this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11641	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11642	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is nice that the President of the Assembly at the beginning of today's work welcomed the representatives of the unions who are following our work, but we seem to have done much more to them and the workers who represent themselves to agree to the amendments of the SRS, because all our amendments are conceived by trying to protect the employees through this law, so as not to repeat what has been produced by the law that will be out of force when this law enters into force today. Of course, we Serbian radicals want to protect employers, but we have very bad experience in the last four years with industry-free industrialists, for example. who are engaged in investment operations within the framework of service activities and who are actively paying their employees earnings, who do not pay their employees contributions for pension insurance, and therefore we think that at this point it is really a priority to protect the employees of Serbia by this law. There have been many speeches during this assembly called on how bad the law is today, there have been many announcements that we will get a revolutionary law from this current government, but certainly nothing here is revolutionary compared to the employees. The president of the assembly is not here, but I really cannot remain in his debt, he said through some reminder to the SRS MP that all parties elected in this parliament are democratic and that we cannot be divided into democratic and non-democratic, and that is absolutely correct, and we are talking it long ago, but I don't know why the President of the Assembly didn't warn yesterday the minister, who said that, I don't know, the previous democratic government, this democratic government and all the future governments, if they are democratic that, I don't know, he's taking care of the employees, etc. I don't just know what kind of government it would be, Minister, if it wasn't democratic. When it comes to Article 11, which says that the invalidity of the labour contract provisions is determined before the competent court and the right to require the determination of invalidity does not become obsolete. This is a completely unnecessary provision in this law. We think that we should, and we have an amendment that speaks of the jurisdiction of labour inspection, really give more jurisdiction to inspect work, and what is now labour inspection, they only formally exist. They can't help anyone, no employee, they can write something, some recommendation, someone who gets fired has to turn to the labour inspection to sue. Of course, they should exist, but what they're doing right now, their job comes down to some formalities, which absolutely have no essential content and can't help any employees who come into any problem with employers. We have, on the one hand, that the market inspector can close the store because there is no fiscal register, there is no fiscal register in the store, but that's why the labour inspector can't shut down any privateer, anything to deal with, because he finds that he's grossly wrong about the Labour Act compared to his employee. We have to make a step there and there's something we need to change. Indeed, you on this side are always publicly pleading and swearing to protect the institutions of the system. It's not just the institutions of the Serbian government, which you of course protect, and you're protecting it, I don't mind. There are many institutions whose functions depend on the lives of employees. If someone loses their jobs today, my dear colleagues, that's what life is all about, because with a salary like this, he can't survive, let alone when he's out of a job, let's not even think about what's waiting for him. I see that the time has expired under this amendment, I will continue on one of the following amendments, but I recommend you adopt this amendment, because indeed Article 11 of this Law of Law is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11643	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11644	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear citizens, the amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group to Article 11, which Mr Nemanja Sarovic explained, is analogous to Article 9. The bill and I think we've been through this, but the minister wasn't in the O.R. back then. This is the essence of the difference between the SRS and the Serbian government's concept of the bill. This is a member of which union representatives have also given their opinion in reality when we look at it, we find it pointless, without deadlines, so that the employees in this case did not get virtually anything. Only an employer gets in trouble. So Article 9 and Article 11 are analoguely connected to each other. The amendments we have submitted to these members to be deleted, in the explanation given by my colleagues and I, I think it is clear that the government should accept this argument if it wants this bill to be made in the interest of all the working people and citizens of Serbia. Because everyone here in the National Assembly is interested in making laws that are of quality and that will protect rights, both workers and employers. To the ultimate end, and the law that will be precise and clear in any case, that is the basic objective of the National Assembly, which should be both the primary objective and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are here in the Assembly representatives of citizens and voters who voted with the aim of passing quality laws. We believe that on the occasion of these Articles 11 and 9 the Government should show its desire when making laws to be precise and clear, that it does not make half-departmental solutions, partly, which ultimately will not do any good. This law applies only to workers who work in public enterprises. What do we do for those who work in the private sector? And that is the essence of our concept that we have presented and that we will present for the amendments that we have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11645	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11646	When adopting the Law on Prosecution, it was said here, in the Serbian Parliament, that the litigation process would be accelerated, that the court proceedings would be speeded up, and also in one chapter of the Law on Prosecution is foreseen as a special procedure in working relations. Immediately thereafter, the Law on Peace of Work Dispute was held at the congregation meeting, explaining that long court proceedings, which protect labour rights, were carried out. So the government thus admitted that it was not a good law on litigation that it had adopted before, by passing a special Law on the peaceful settlement of labour disputes. As to the futility of the contract, this should be taken into account by the causes of the futility and consequences they produce. Why would they allow upfront situations to arise, to create zero contract provisions, which will cause certain adverse consequences. It is necessary for the labour inspection to have more powers in this regard, above all in the supervisory process, which is one of the basic functions carried out by the labour inspection, in order to prevent the adverse consequences of zero contracts. If we allow the provisions of a zero contract to produce certain legal facts for a certain period of time, they will also do certain damage. This all needs to be proved in court, whether the provisions of the contract are void, and if so, which damage they caused primarily for the workers. And this labour law is primarily intended for working people and those people who live off their work, and it's not meant for capital owners. His superior function should protect people who live from their work, not those who live off their capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11647	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11648	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is necessary to accept the amendment that he submitted to his 11th colleague, Nemanja Sarovic, because both the first and second position is a finding, a story for yourself, the right to require the determination of invalidity does not go out of date. But what if it happens? They're right colleagues who spoke before me when they say that the first attitude actually encourages the employer not to respect the contract. It is the biggest problem in Serbia today. In all the cities in Serbia, where labour disputes are being conducted between employees and employers, the subject is disrespect for the contract, with stories for themselves being a disregard for the contract, or provisions after the privatisation process, the kind of robbery it was in Serbia, due to disrespect for the social contract and what employers promised. In order for you to be at least somehow this bill of law to melem on early workers, who, especially today in Serbia and suffer and suffer for not having a job, because those who work are constantly in fear of what will happen to their employment, whether the company will survive, whether they will be able to work, accept the amendment to Nemanje Sarovic, thus improving the text of the law and creating the possibility that people who are employed will be better protected. We have potentiated the inspection of the work, its operation and its greater presence, which we are in fact looking for through the erasure of this member and through the debate in principle. But given the degree of involvement of labour inspection, which is present in districts, or cities, in municipalities, through this kind of work inspection engagement will not be possible, because there are not enough labour inspectors, and they usually don't arrive in time and do their job properly. Then it associated me with the reply of Mladjan Dinkic, when it comes to budgetary inspection. We tell him that big problems in municipalities and cities where radicals took over, big indications are that the representatives of most DS committed abuse of official office, robbed that municipality, that city, and presidents of the new, elected, invited the inspector to come, and then he tells us - I don't have enough, and they're underpaid, so they're not motivated to do the job. So, the resolution ministry, the government and the state need much more to do to protect workers' rights. And yet I repeat, this first position of this proposed article 11 simply disrupts the employer from breaking a contract he signed with an employee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11649	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic, and he suggested that in this and all other members the word "health" be replaced by the words "protection of life and health" in an appropriate decline. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11650	The chairman is right, this amendment is likely to extend to 20 other members, in which there is a manifestation of something that could say "unconstitutional", i.e. disagreement with constitutional norm. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as it is, in Article 38(2), for what has been tried here to be written as security and health, uses the term protection at work. The constitution states not to make these gymnastics with bad translations of texts coming from Brussels. That's what some administrative workers do there, hilly-dwellers make some suggestions and maybe translate something from French, Italian, see if it's in accordance with their directives, lose it here to the ministry and catch our translator here and add some more meaning to it. Only when they come to the congregation do we see that the term used does not reflect what exists as a term in our Constitution. Listen to this argument, the reason why it is so is that in the future another law on protection at work will change, so it will have the name of a safety law, etc. It's probably familiar, and there's no need to explain himself more. But with this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the other side. No direct amendment is touched, but the very story of Article 12 allows us to point to other irregularities, inaccuracies that occur in Article 12. Article 12 has made some attempt to taxe rights based on work, labour rights. Of course, there comes profit as a right, and in our version comes the right to protection at work. Then you listed, he says-- health care, and a little later he says other rights in case of illness. They are already covered by the right to health care. The whole area of health care is regulated by the Health Insurance Act, and when it comes to employees, we have compulsory health insurance, and health care is much more about work and health care, and it could not be accepted that it has some direct connection to the rights of employees based on work, in case of illness, etc. What again reflects something that has no place to be in this member, it's a protection of personal integrity. It is not clear in what context this is mentioned. The protection of personal integrity is provided by so-called General regulations, so now we're trying to list what that could be except for life, health, freedom, etc., and there's honor, dignity, the right personality the fastest observed. There's already protection for that. It exists in material provisions, material laws, there are laws on bond relations, which are art. In 199 and 200, which I have to say is unfortunately very badly applied in court practice. Personality is protected and its integrity is protected, privacy is protected, personality data and all other regulations are protected. Where did that desire to push all the hilly-doves around here, and what could cause confusion in anyone who should apply this law? What kind of polarisation we have in the interests of employees and employers, so I wouldn't be surprised to have a roundtable and what it could be all about under the protection of personal integrity. Such a thing must not be done when the law is written, because it is not in the function of conciseness, clarity, but in the function of paroles, declarations, which can be interpreted from case to case in different ways and, as a rule, there is an interpretation depending on the will of one who is superior to impose his interpretation. It is certain that it is necessary to effectively protect the integrity of a person in a working relationship, but it is not provided in such provisions and something that has no concrete meaning, but above all with general legislation and criminal, material and procedural provisions, and all other material regulations where the rights of a person are protected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11651	Thank you. Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11652	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have come out only to avoid any dilemma as to whether there should be this possibility or not, and the possibility is that the employer's decision can determine the participation of the employee in the profits. We fully agree that it is, and we just wanted to point out that it doesn't have to be legislative matter, and it shouldn't be legislative matter, and in that sense it burdens already a very large legal text. Of course, it's free will, in the end, the employer and the employee. It can happen another way, and that's inter-partes ratio. It wouldn't be necessary to put it into this law. We are completely for the essential purpose of such a solution and remain on our amendment for purely legal and technical reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11653	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11654	Ladies and gentlemen, the labour law that is in force today left about 800,000 employees out of work at the time, and the application of this law, the minister and other members of the government, will produce another 300,000 unemployed. That means over a million more hungry in Serbia. We Serbian radicals think that this must not be the essence of the law, but rather the opposite, that we must create conditions for hiring new people, for returning to work for those who have already been fired, rather than announcing new cancellations, by applying certain provisions of this law. What is predicted is really too much, even if it is from the "democratic government", as the minister said yesterday. In Article 15 paragraph 1(2), you predicted: "Employee is obliged: 2) to respect the organisation of work and business with the employer, as well as the requirements and rules of the employer in relation to the fulfilment of contractual and other labour obligations". This "requests" is really, in the context of this, so raving, especially if we know what happens to employees of various employers, so on. The industrialists, the ones without industry. That's why we thought it would be a good idea to replace this word "request" with the word "conditions", because the employer sets the conditions for fulfilling contractual and other obligations from a working relationship, and cannot possibly make demands. Why didn't the government accept this amendment? "For the reasons that the labour contract has already established working conditions and labour obligations, while this provision establishes the obligation of an employee to comply with the employer's requirements in order to meet the contractual obligations." This argument does not mean anything, because employees should not respect any specific requirements, but rather meet the requirements of the labor contract. On the one hand, signed by an employer, on the other hand, an employee. The obligation to respect that contract also has an employer, has employees. In that sense, there is also this amendment, which was submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, who is, by the way, the president of the municipality of Zemun, and I will tell you why I stress this. Because, according to the previous law, in early 2001 in the municipality of Zemun and in the Public Business Area, the municipality of Zemun was then called Zemun. The democratic authorities fired over 100 employees. Now let me go back to those members of the 9th and 11th that we talked about through the previous amendments, through your predicting nothingness and determining in court whether or not the contract is nothing. All of these employees, and fired exclusively for political reasons in early 2001, welcomed as the unemployed new radical government in Zemun, because they are conducting proceedings before the competent courts, but the competent courts do not end their obligations for four years, do not deliver rulings that should be carried out by an emergency procedure, as judicial disputes from working relations are assumed to be priority and have to be completed by emergency procedure. All of what we're telling you, dear and dear colleagues, is from experience. You all know well that it is, and you all know well, I have repeatedly said that my own sister in the municipality of Zemun was fired, that the then secretary of the municipality, the Democrats, said, "You must leave here because your radical presence threatens the new democratic authority." It's an explanation that she got fired and has not been returned to work until today because it's still a court dispute. That and that sort of thing we Serbian radicals want to stop. For now, it is only by submitting amendments to your laws in which, when read among the ranks, such things are hidden again, ladies and gentlemen. We therefore recommend that you accept this and other amendments to the SRS. That way, if you accept our amendments, you will be able to stand before this union gentleman and the workers they represent and say, gentlemen, we are now fulfilling our pre-election promises. Unlike you, Serbian radicals keep their pre-election promises and we fight, as an opposition, this way. Accept our amendments, if you want well for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11655	Mr. Krasic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11656	I'm going to give you a few examples, without giving you a name, because names are not needed, because they're common knowledge, that with new democracy everything is previously bad. Article 15 shall state the duties of the staff. We are asking for an intervention in point 2) by amendment, where the word "requests" should be replaced by the word "conditions". Why? It means, "Employee is obliged to respect the organisation of work and business in the employer... "The organisation of work and way of business determines the employer, whether through the board of directors, whether through the director, but in any case, it expresses it in its statute, the rules on the systematization of jobs. As far as technical norms are concerned, that's probably what's listed in point 1. Then you say next: "... as well as the requirements and rules of the employer." The rules of the employer are in something we can generally call a general act. It's some rule, it's some general character decision that prescribes something: a rule of conduct, a rule of work, an internal organization, communication, etc. But here's the word "requests." I'll give you an example. You have a private who has managed to build a good company since 1985, by some objective criteria, and has employees, and his company is located in the same yard where his house is. He's making an employee go clean his house, he's making his kid go to school, he's making lunch for his family. It's a request that the employer made to the employee, what he expects him to do and what he needs to do. The problem is that this employee, if he has a contract on work, is not accepted to be an assistant, or to be some accounting staff, has already established a working relationship or has actually started working on some machine that packs sodas, candy, sorts ceramic tiles in a wholesale sale, but he has to respect the request. Here the employer's request appears as his personal boss, as his personal will. If our amendment is accepted and said "conditions", then we're talking about what's the essence of a working relationship. So the rights and obligations of the employee cannot depend on the employer's personal boss, so whether he appears in the form of a man with the name and last name, director or board of directors, etc. Can't demand, because the request contains something that's one-sided, which is the individual's disposition. That's why you need to put "condition" as something that would be objective. According to these objective criteria, someone enters the work relationship system. That's what we wanted to draw your attention to, to point you out, because when you read this law someone who has 20 employees can say - people, I'm the boss. He doesn't know what a working relationship is, what rights are, he says - I'm the boss, I told you to do it, and if you don't, you're going out. These stories whether it's prescribed by a labor contract, you know how much there is no work contract. This law does not provide that minimum, again, to the minimum of the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have come in a position to be in a working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11657	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11658	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Lalovic, the political party you belong to so far has most pointed to the abuse of an employer when it comes to the male employer's relationship with a girl or a woman who works in the company. But I can see that you are not inclined, given all the arguments that are of other nature, to accept this amendment by Mrs. Pop-Lazic, because if you had had the will, you would have told us as an authorised proponent in the explanation you gave. I therefore appeal to fellow MPs, regardless of which political party they belong, to accept this amendment in voting day. The word - request is the method of greatest and highest abuse when it comes to young girls and women who work in, above all, private enterprises or any company where the employer is the one who can at least abuse this provision of the law. And they are not rare, but a very common phenomenon in the press and in the daily and weekly newspapers when it comes to the confessions of such members, conditionally speaking, of a gentler sex, or lady, of their employers to them. In the Serbian Parliament, we have a Committee on Gender Equality, whose, among other members of the SRS, I am a member. It is not the lady who is chairman of the Committee today, and we have also pointed out to her when it comes to the segment treated by the Committee on Gender Equality to the possibility of this type of abuse in the case of this member of the law, to which the amendment was submitted by Mrs Pop-Lazic. In addition to all of this, which Mr Krasic has cited as an example, which the employer may seek, i.e. to request, is explicitly required, better say - order someone who works with him to meet, and this someone is under the obligation to do under the contract of work signed with the employer. The most common problems that arise in employees, stressful situations with those who work in the country, that I don't talk about those millions who don't have jobs, who are in difficult health and, above all, psychological conditions because of that, but in those who do is abuse by employers. It would be degutant to say -- most employers are like that, but we can't bid on how potentially those provisions of the law, such as Article 9 and Article 11, and in particular Article 15(2), are going to be misused. So, with this wide range of examples from different areas that have occurred, accept, Mr. Lalovic, if not, then pay attention to the day of voting and accept the amendment submitted by the colleague, Mrs. Pop-Lazic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11659	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović is a member of the 16th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11660	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, I have submitted an amendment to Article 16. The draft law, concerning the obligation of employers and which states that the employer is obliged, please pay attention to the order, because it is essentially a Crucial Obstacle, so 1) the employer is obliged to pay the employee for the work done, and only then goes 2) that he is obliged to provide the employee with working conditions and organise the work of security, then 3) it is stated that he is obliged to provide information on working conditions, organisation of work, etc., then 4) to provide the employee with the jobs set out in the labour contract and 5) to seek the opinion of the trade union. I believe that the order of obligations of employers, as stated in Article 16, is not logical, because when one of the citizens is employed in the company, it is logical that the employer performs so as to first explain to the person who is employed what will be the condition and organisation of work, then to ensure safe work, to ensure daily work, and only then to pay for the work of the employee. The proposed amendment changes the order of obligations so that it is logical. The government says in its explanation why it rejected the amendment, because it is precisely the right to earn one of the basic human rights. Of course I agree that's the case, but the other rights listed in Article 16 represent the right. Perhaps the most important right is to organise safe work, especially in Serbia where fatal accidents often occur at work, and employers are not obliged to take care of working conditions, in order to preserve the fundamental right, which is the right to life. I think this amendment is logical and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11661	Thank you. By the same amendment, please, MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11662	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, union representatives, Mr Minister, this is an amendment that the SPS MPs will support. We think it's logical and we think it's important what counterpart Nestorovic said, especially in situations where companies work and do business, where it's unfortunately a priority position, as is said, to receive a salary. Many times it is not taken into account and the employer is often and is not asked much for anything else if salaries are paid. Therefore, I think that the amendment is good and that, at least through that order, we in some way commit the employer to taking care of something that is also very important, except for a salary that is, in difficult conditions, a priority for workers, to take care of its health as well. For these reasons, the SPS will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11663	Thank you. Can I help you, anyone else? No, I don't. ) Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Labour Committee, the fight and social issues have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11664	A colleague, Marko Krstin, submitted an amendment to Article 23(2) which proposed that Article 2 be deleted. This position 2 provides that the accused employer is burdened with proving that he has not violated the prohibition of discrimination. Yesterday, speaking in principle, I said that this extends throughout our legal system, where it is a fundamental legal item that what claims and proves it, so I think that this attitude would violate the entire legal system, so that we remain on the amendment, especially because the fact that proving negative facts is not possible under the Law of Prosecution, not according to any other laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11665	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Nikolic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Milan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11666	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the chapter - banning discrimination in the proposed labour law provides a chance for many irregularities and abuses in the field of labour relations to begin with employment, and even in the process of work, to avoid, to stop. I personally welcome all members from 18 to 21 who speak in this chapter about the ban on discrimination. For me, however, the second position of Article 23 is controversial because it is predicted that the burden of proof falls on the defendant. I think that's contrary to all the applicable legislation in our country, especially in the opposite of the Law on Prosecution. He has the right to be angry and sued, even if he's not objectively wrong, unless he's admitted to a working relationship or if he thinks his labour rights are impaired. I think there's no need to create problems, costs, time and court proceedings, and that's not in accordance with the applicable legal regulations with us. I ask the MPs to consider this amendment in the day of voting to vote as I have suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11667	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment we heard on Article 23... makes sense because the burden of proof should always be on the prosecutor. It is the aim of this law to protect workers, but it should also not be allowed through this law to lead to the abuse of certain rights and to the transfer of too much burden to the defendants, or in this case to employers. If we accept such a solution as we are destined for this law, we would force the employer, or the accused, to prove a negative fact, to prove that he did not do something, and that right is simply pointless. How do you prove something didn't happen? You can prove something happened, but prove something didn't happen, it's extremely difficult. The problem is that accepting this amendment would put us in a slightly pointless situation, because then this second view would say that the burden of proving the facts on which the defendant's claims are based if he did not violate the ban on discrimination falls on the prosecutor. Then the D.A. would, in this case, be someone who's an example. sexually harassed, he had to prove that the employer, or the defendant, had not committed sexual harassment. As a result, in order to get out of this deadlock, I suggest that this amendment be accepted anyway, and that the Legislative Committee meet afterwards and that the legal revision of this text be carried out, so that in the first part of the sentence it is said that the burden of proof of facts based on the prosecution's claims that it has not violated the prohibition of discrimination within the meaning of Articles 18 to 21 of this Law falls on the prosecutor. In this way, we would legally settle the text of this law and I think this would be something that fits European norms, which would certainly fit our legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11669	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Toma Busetic and Hranislav Peric submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 24 provides for one of the employers to adopt a regulation on organisation and systematization of jobs. The Regulation lays down the type of work, type and degree of expertise and other specific conditions for the operation of those tasks. The Regulation on Organisation and Systematization shall have the obligation to bring in employers who employ more than 10 workers. In small businesses, up to 10 workers, the employer will not have an obligation to have a rule. What difference does it make that the rulebook must have an employer who employs 11 and 12 workers and doesn't have to have that employer who employs 10 workers? That means there's gonna be a lot of small businesses, thousands, that don't get the organization rule, which means 10,000 workers will be damaged, which means 10,000 employers can make whatever they want to do. We have proposed by amendment that an employer who employs five and more workers must have a rule on the organisation and systematization of jobs in his company. If the employer employs five workers, they too would have to have an organization rule because the employer will abuse it. Then, this member will affect employment because the employer will avoid hiring more than 10 workers because of the rules. That is why we propose in Article 24(4) that number 10 be replaced by five.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11671	The word has been given by MP Brance Stojanovic, following the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11672	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Franislav Peric has given an explanation. We in the Socialist Party think that this is important, and especially what Mr. Minister said in the opening exposé, that this law wants the cluance which was a little bit, or a little more on the part of the employer, to wish that, conditionally speaking, the injustice was corrected and that it moved a little bit towards the workers. Mr. Peric mentioned the number of workers found in small companies. Since there is a general consensus on the further restructuring of large systems and the work of creating small and medium-sized enterprises, we do not think that any great burden is for the employer to take the final view in Article 24, where the employer who has 10 and less employees does not adopt a regulation on organisation and business systemization – accept the proposal to be five and less employees. In this way, we think that we are protecting a significant group of workers, as Mr. Peric said, so please also Mr. Minister, I don't think that there's anything really wrong with the law, and since this is a working law, we help the workers in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11673	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11674	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just a few more sentences in favour of the Minister's decision to accept this amendment. I'm from a world of economy, I think this provision would even benefit employers and it would be good if all those who have more than five employees and internal relations and systematization were to be governed by the regulations. Even in the theory of system functioning, it's hard for one man to coordinate the work of more than four perpetrators. When we have a situation where there are over five perpetrators, then, by nature, things are normally forced to be regulated by the systematization rule, so that jobs can be done precisely, and then the responsibility of the perpetrators to do these jobs. Secondly, we have come from the assumption, proposing this amendment, that it should not apply to small family companies, which are normally up to five employees. In principle, everyone does everything, since it is not possible to organise such a job that we have a strict division of work, and the relationships of those who own such enterprises are usually family and it is not necessary there, even rarely happens to have possible disputes about whether someone is obliged or not to perform certain tasks governed by that rule. In addition to some exceptional situations, I think it is this provision that benefits employers and that we will not spoil anything from the essence of this law if the minister or most MPs in the Assembly accept the SPS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11675	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11676	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 24 paragraph 1 of the Labour Act, by proposing that after the word "life" be placed stuck and to add the words "general health skills". I think a working relationship can only be designed if a minimum age of life is determined, and that should be 15, but there must be a general health capacity. So, minimum years and general health skills are two basic conditions or should be to start a working relationship. I think this solution is realistic, rational, and I call upon everyone, and I urge you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11677	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11678	Article 24, which concerns the amendments of my colleague Koprivica, speaks of conditions for establishing a working relationship and, among other things, says that working relationship can be established with a person who has at least 15 years of life and fulfils other conditions for working on certain tasks laid down by law, i.e. the Regulation on organisation and systemization, etc. We in the SRS think that it must, therefore, beside what's costing 15 years of life, meet other conditions, but one of the conditions that a minor has to meet in order to build a working relationship is general health skills. The Government tells us in response why it does not accept this, that amendments are accepted for the reason that the draft labour law has been delivered to the IOR, so they have told us that the candidate is obliged to notify the employer of his health status only before the completion of the work contract only if it has an important impact on the performance of the jobs for which he has a working relationship. He further says, however, the employer cannot ask candidates to supply data that is not of direct importance to the work carried out by the employee. So he can't even ask for a birth certificate, he doesn't know if he's fourteen or 15 years old. This is simply unacceptable, such an explanation from whoever it came from, even from that MOR. Because this is about a minor, a specific condition, he can start a working relationship, he's only 15 years old, and it's really necessary to be a general health professional capable of doing any job he's possibly working on. Now, my fellow Members, I want to tell you one more thing, just one lady called the SRS Parliament Club and asked us to bring out, for the sake of the public of Serbia, the information that this state as an employer treats its citizens as employees. It's about the National lottery and the lady talking about Mladjan Dinkic. And these days, or these weeks, we're all witnessing that a full record of how many citizens are waiting in front of the National Lottery's counter, because there are some millions promising for a week that can't possibly get away with it, and of course it's a scam, I'm not going to talk about what the lady said, which she said her name, but I don't dare read her name out of fear of not getting fired after what she told us. So, she says that women work mostly in the National lottery, and it's not controversial, but it's controversial that they work seven working days from 8:00 to 2:00 p.m., they're not allowed to see more people so they can work shifts, so they can have what the law provides, and a break in the course of work, and a break in two working days. So, they work from 8:00 to 2:00 p.m., work seven working days, and appeal to the lady who answered, says she appears on behalf of employees in the entire region, and asks the MPs to warn Minister Dinkic that she cannot abuse her ministerial function like this, and that these employees must treat them as they deserve, as people, first of all, and then, of course, according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11679	I've seen you all, wait a minute, first Minister Lalovic, don't get excited, especially for the cube. Whoever's gambling, his problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11680	There were a few things that were said here, which I think they deserve to comment on, to make themselves clear. I'll start at the end, since it's the freshest memory. So it was said earlier when the amendment to the general health status was discussed, and that was the occasion when the observation was made that it means that for minors, their health status is not determined, etc. Two things I want to say. First, that this law is in Article 25, and I think it's good otherwise, I've already suggested that when an amendment is put on and when something is discussed, to look at the whole law, then to make an observation, because that makes sense. In fact, Article 25 of the same proposal defines, when it comes to minors, the obligation to determine health skills and conditions, so that this kind of objection does not stand on the very text of the law. As for this second part, therefore, when it comes to 18-year-olds and older than 18-year-olds, it really is, but not because it's listed here, it says maybe an MOR or someone, but simply, this is a provision that is completely logical and it's in the interest of the employee, but it also doesn't disrupt the position of the employer, because if he foresees certain health conditions, he can require a health check. So, this would normally be a general thing, even unnecessary harassment, asking for papers on general health skills. It's a whole other context. So that kind of remark just isn't right. When it comes to this second one that has most confused the MPs, and it is perfectly understandable that it has confused, because it is a new approach, it is about the burden of proof, what caused the controversy. The burden of proof is, therefore, on the defendant, and in this sense on the employer, when it comes to discrimination. A few things are important here. First, the burden of proof, when it comes to discrimination, is on the defendant and that is so in all the countries where these provisions apply. So, on the one hand, it's about the directive that's listed here, and in all countries, the burden of proof is on the defendant. If we want to be unique, apart from everyone else, we can decide differently, but I just don't think that thing's right. So it's about one specific thing. When it comes to discrimination of employees on any basis, even to the one that's being talked about here, it's logical, firstly, that employees when they report such things, he should make that thing and that behavior likely, and he'll bring out certain facts that indicate that there is such a thing. It is logical, then, that the burden of proof, that equality is respected, that there is no discrimination, is on one that is actually the most responsible that there is no discrimination on any basis, which is actually an employer. Here, you don't understand that fine distinction when it comes to the need for the burden of proof to be on the employer, not on the employee. I would simply ask the MPs to understand that there is this difference and to accept the simple thing. The next thing you know, one thing is a small thing, but I want to point out the need when amendments are put on and when one important thing is discussed, like the labour law, I would ask that the whole text be read at all times. When we rip something out, we can prove everything. I want to point out this relatively small thing, it's not too important, but a mechanism we shouldn't hold, which is the amendment, where the word "requests" is required to change the word "conditions" that we've heard a lot about. I would point out to the MPs, and, of course, to the citizens of Serbia, what it is. It clearly states in that article that requirements must be related to the fulfilment of contractual and other labour obligations. So it's obvious that it's something that has to be a work contract, that these are obligations related to working relationships and work obligations, not obligations related to what's being said here as an example. If the MPs who put this amendment had read the entire sentence, then I think it would have been a different discussion and I would have simply called, as far as possible, that when amendments are put in order for the whole to be read and the whole law to be read. We'd save on one side of the time, if we didn't lose on less important things, and maybe we could discuss some of the essential things in this law here, make an argument. I want to give an example that is repeated, also because of the citizens of Serbia. It's a matter of personal integrity, which is mentioned. When we talked about these things yesterday, it was also said that there was protection under the general rules, etc. Of course there is, but of course it's a different criminal-legal liability, it's a different work-legal responsibility. If that wasn't the case, then we shouldn't be sanctioning theft in a working relationship at all. There's a crime, a responsible man someday. I'm simply pointing to repeating a certain argument, where we're wasting a little time, and I think we should discuss it a little bit more responsibly. Of course, when it comes to personal integrity, the rights of a man to dignity, it is logical that all MPs want the worker to be protected by his personal integrity in a working relationship, compared to the employer. Is there anyone in this room that's against it? I don't think so. Just keep in mind that it's some elemental stuff, so we don't repeat it. Next thing I know, it's a work inspection. It is a service operating within this ministry, this government, and so far and in the future. Labour inspection, which is now in the phase of change, reform, training, that I don't bother you about it, but it is essential that the inspection of work in the coming period, given this safety law that will soon be at work here, and the inspection law that will soon be here, that the inspection of work in accordance with the powers of the labour law, which we are talking about today, has an extremely serious and high authority, is a great opportunity to influence and to ensure the application of labour law provisions, or respect. We have about 400 labour inspectors in Serbia. It could be some kind of approach, so let's instead of 400, we have 4,000 or 40,000. That's not worth it, that's what I'm saying to you and, for the sake of the public of Serbia, to the citizens of Serbia. In the United States, where there are 130 million employees, there are 990 labour inspectors. What exactly is this about? In normal countries, 99% of employers and citizens respect laws. In countries where half or half of them don't respect laws, we don't have a solution in that direction. We can put one cop next to every employer, we won't solve the problem. What we do and what we want to do is double. It's one thing for labour inspectors to do their job properly, to have the fines of a million dinars, as the bill provides for law violations. That's why those who won't support this bill won't actually support that part, which is that the law enforcement employer has to pay a million dinars, and not like so far, each individual, so he'll think about five times what he's doing. It's part of the story. The other part of the story, the truth works, is that we work with employers. One of the important actions of this ministry and this government will be to talk to employers, like in any normal country, to respect the laws. When we come to explaining ourselves and convince employers to respect the laws mostly, then these 400 labour inspectors will be quite enough and we simply need to understand that part of the story. There's one more thing about that. According to the labour law, in this proposal you have here, it can be prohibited to act as an employer by a wrongful judge. So what I'm saying is, based on the request from the labour inspectors, there's a mechanism and a ban on doing business, and that's usually the most unpopular, because it also affects workers. It's just that he has to be smart when that decision is made. But I'm saying that this mechanism exists here. One more thing that's been said here about the futility of the contract, which we lost a little bit on the story about it. What I'm trying to say to you is, in fact, predicting that they are not a contract like that, but certain provisions of a contract on the work of nothing, if that and that, what are we actually doing? If the whole contract was nothing, then my work relationship would be lifted. So, the demands are completely off track. We say, certain provisions. What are the consequences of nothingness? Why is that standing there? Because then there is no legal effect on those provisions from the moment the contract is concluded. Second, because it doesn't go out of date. If we were to delete this, as there are demands here, and leave the proposals that have been made, we would actually directly damage and strike employees' rights. I would also ask that these things be seriously considered before being carried out here, independently of the assumed political benefit of the citizens. Let's be a little more responsible, more careful, when it comes to these things that hit hundreds of thousands or millions, or two, or three million people, who are supposed to function under this law. Just one last thing and one last thing, it doesn't belong directly to the law. It keeps saying that by applying this law, there will be some 300,000 people left without a job. One formulation is used which is incorrect for two reasons. First, which of course none of the laws of this kind, systematically, per se neither brings nor relations. He's doing something else. So people aren't mistaken, but there's one other far more important thing, and I'm going to repeat it again, it looks like every time I do it again. So, jobs in Serbia have been lost and lost over the past 20 years. What we do now and what everyone has to do is realize the truth, so we can help these people at all. There's another approach, we stick our heads in the sand, like a noose. We're telling stories that like each other, so it won't be 300, it'll be three million. That's what we're not gonna do anymore, and I think if we open it in the afternoon, I'll have the chance to figure out what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11681	I thank Minister Lalovic. And it would have been good, there would have been no controversy about this if the minister had delivered to the MPs as many as 20, 10, 5 years ago, so that the MPs would have no different information. After the break, Natasa Jovanovic and Aleksandar Djordjevic. Pause until 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Please, since we have been notified the official presence of 143 MPs, let us determine the quorum. I ask the Members to insert their cards into the e-system parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that there are enough MPs present in the O.R. to work. Yes, you have a word, and first of all, the MPs lost touch, so the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. That's where we stopped. Please, according to this amendment, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11683	You have read as it is written, it is true, the amendment to Article 24(1). A bill of law, an esteemed colleague of Bozidar Koprivica. I will ask you, Mr Markovic, to intervene when any minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia comes and, in response to questions asked by MPs, uses a tone that can sound like demeaning to us. In fact, Mr. Angelkovic chaired when Minister Lalovic addressed us and, speaking of amendments that are MPs, not only the SRS, but I suppose he submitted everything to the bill, said that MPs should continue to take account of what form the amendments are and how they are submitted, as if it were the job of the minister and as if Slobodan Lalovic was the savior who, after so many years, should also come to some of us, who have been in the Assembly for 10 and more years, to speak in which way to submit the amendments. Not only is it not correct, but it is not the job of the minister, whom I remind you, the National Assembly chooses, or you choose him as such, as all others. As far as the amendments are concerned, the minister himself, as he would say, jumped into his mouth and when he stressed the reason for not accepting Mr Bozidar Koprivica's amendments, called for the International Labour Organisation's opinion and said it refers to persons over 18 years. And here we are saying, to repeat this because of you and the citizens who are now monitoring the transfer of the Assembly, Mr. Koprivica in the amendment to Article 24 of the Law requires that for underage children, who move with a working relationship between 15 and 18 years of age, it is necessary to establish the general health capacity. When we talked about Mr. Koprivica's amendment, a colleague of Radeta came out with amazing data on how to abuse the working time of employees in the Serbia lottery. What is saddening today in Serbia, because of the completely ruined economy, is much larger lines for the lottery than in places where people should find a job. It's likely that in a magical week people see their winning combination and some solution or hope that they can solve life's problem. But even more tragic is that a large number of children aged 15 to 18, those who did or did not finish primary school, are looking for employment to help their parents, those who stayed at the best of their life without a job, or those who are without parental ageing, and who have to provide themselves with the existence and the ability to earn something. How, then, for you, Mr. Lalovic, it is unacceptable that, as my colleague Koprivica suggested, you add to the law these three words he asked for, that it is necessary to establish the general health capacity. Imagine what a job it is and what an unskilled young man from 15 to 18 can do, it is usually difficult or physical business or, in any case, some who require the establishment of a general health and a very young population who must seek employment. After all, I must remind you that also under Article 28. The constitution has special protection for minors who are not cared for by parents, as well as those who are unable to care for themselves and protect their rights and interests. If through this article, the Constitution takes care of minors, and I told you that it is mostly those who help their parents or have to do because they have no other option to support themselves and take care of themselves, accept this amendment by Mr. Koprivica – of course, with a practical explanation, there is obviously no one here, why you will not accept it – as well as a more correct way of addressing the people's representatives, who are here among other things to criticize you and to control you how you work, and not you, and to give them lessons in which form they need and how to put their amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11684	Thank you. First word has a minister. Here you go, Mr. Lalovic. Just one notice, I wasn't there, I'll check if there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This applies to everything from what you quoted, I realized that it was simply an invitation for mutual understanding and collegiation. At the same time, I ask all MPs not to use this pay phone to advertise lottery organizations. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11685	First, I want to comment on this amendment, which is still current. What I was about to say is I still want to say, it certainly wasn't to belittle any MPs. I can't think of that. What I was about to say is that my application, when some amendment is done, is that you should look at the law in general. That was my request. Why? Right away, let me say it specifically; so something's been missed on your part. This is about the position of minors aged 15 to 18. For Serbia's citizens, to be clear, in article 25. The bill, which is before you, in paragraph 2, states that a person under the age of 18 can only establish a working relationship on the basis of the findings of the competent health authority, which determines that he is capable of doing business. So Article 25(2) applies to them a special regime under the age of 18, over 15. So this observation in that section does not stand as a comment. In Article 84 of the same proposal, it is explicitly prohibited for employees under 18 years of age to work on tasks that are particularly difficult to work physically, work under the ground, under water or at high altitude, which include exposure to harmful radiation or agents that are toxic, carcinogenic, or if they cause hereditary diseases, as well as health risks due to cold, heat, noise or vibration, and which, based on the findings of the competent health authority, could be harmful and with an increased risk of affecting his health and life, given his psychophysical abilities. So when it comes to 15 to 18-year-olds in order to start a working relationship, there is a special regime that requires the competent health care institution to determine that they are able to work. That's one thing. Second, work on particularly difficult jobs is explicitly prohibited. What was my idea when I said it, and now I'm staying in it, in that sense, to look at the whole of the law when something is being commented. The second thing I wanted to say, and it was about what we talked about before the session ended at 1400 hours, which was open as a question of unemployment, employment and other problems, which left me the need to give information, since the issue was open, so I think I have a duty to give information. So, according to official statistics, not according to what I'm saying or someone else in 1991, 2,295,438 people were employed in the social sector in Serbia; in 2000, 1,596,505 people were employed in the social sector. So somewhere around 700,000 people in the period, the number of employees in Serbia's social sector has been reduced. That's the mention of the digits: 800, five million etc. So, in the period 1991-2000, the number of employees in the social sector was reduced by 700,000 people. I'm saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, not because I don't know what else. In 2001, the annual average of employees was 2,102,000, and in 2004, the annual average of employees was 2,028,000. So, between 2001 and 2004, the average annual employees decreased by 80,000. How did that happen? Let's get this straight: by being in what's-his-name. The social sector, including the large private sector, has been reduced from 2001 to 2004 by the number of employees from 1,752,000 to 1,551,000. So, by about 200,000 people, the number of employees has been reduced by those four years. But, on the other hand, in the individual sector, it was employed plus in the same period of 167,000 people. This minus 80,000 people appear in these four years. So, the problem of unemployment in Serbia, which we are now dealing with, has arisen over the past 20 years. This is not about one political party, but about one social system that had to legally produce it. What we're doing right now is changing that system, so this doesn't continue. For that matter, what I think is also important, the unemployment rate can also be a significant factor. In 2001, the rate was 28.7%, and in 2004 it was 26% or 28%, depending on how you measure it, while in 1991 the rate was 21%. So, in all the parameters of employment, employment, unemployment, what happened, the drama that happened, the tragedy that took place in Serbia, occurred in the period 1980-2000, with the most dramatic period being 1990-2000. It's just a fact. Now there's talk, twist, but that's a fact, and that's data. What is also important, faced with such problems, and this and every other government must lead such a policy that in Serbia we are really successfully struggling with the biggest problem, that's the one we're talking about. Currently, the employment rate in Serbia is 58%. Check it out. The rate is higher than the rate in Hungary and even in some countries, smaller than Slovenia and more than other countries. For the question open at 1400 hours, the answer is in the data. In the next period, when we talk about unemployment, about employees, it would be good to stick to data, to stick to the truth, because it's the only way to fight this thing successfully. I was obliged to present to the MPs, but also to the citizens of Serbia the exact data and the exact state of affairs when it comes to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11686	Ms. Jovanovic has the right to a replica. I didn't recognize anyone else in the exhibit. Let me in the meantime, according to the Rules of Procedure, introduce you to something that will be waiting for us all tomorrow. According to the Rules of Procedure, we can't work when there's no transmission, unless we agree to it or if there's a delayed transmission. Tomorrow at 15.00 hours there will be a transfer of the Solidarity Concert to the victims of the tsunami and technically it will not be possible to transfer it to the Assembly. This congregation will not take care of what the parties have. He will be president of the Czech Parliament here from 15.00 hours, and representatives of all parties will participate in the delegation. Once again, please, we'll be working between 10.00 and 15.00 hours tomorrow and ask you to schedule your time. Thank you. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11687	No problem, I can wait, because the time of the SRS is just coming. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Markovic, let me give you an explanation. Don't worry about tomorrow. In the follow-up to the quorum session for tomorrow's work, by my estimate, you can determine how things are in your MP's quassiness, about 17.00 hours. If the concert lasts from 15.00 to 17.00 hours, we'll have a direct transmission below, which means 5:00 p.m. As for my replica of the presentation of Minister Lalovic, Mr. Lalovic, I am now convinced that you did not write this bill; or the lady next to you or one of your associates, because you are jumping into your mouth again. You're saying you don't accept Mr. Bozidar Koprivica's amendment and our explanation for that, for God's sake, we haven't seen the whole of the law, so tell us what goes on and how you treat persons under the age of 18 in Article 18 and in Article 84. If we're talking about a previous member, then we're right. You have not read the law or read it when it comes to minors from article 25. I would understand that you are making such an observation to us and that you are trying to succeed, that we have now told you, after such an article of yours 25, that Mr. Koprivica has only intervened in a later member, but he is intervened in a law on minors and on compulsory health care in the previous member. So we're right and we've seen the whole of the law. In addition to the fact that you may have been correct, and perhaps not, I have the right to doubt that, in all of your labs, you just missed Milka Planintz, so you complete the picture of everything that's been going on since the 1980s and so on. Not to mention all these wrong moves by the former DOS government. But neither SRS MPs nor employees in Serbia, and at least union representatives are asking you for statistics, which may be, and may not. You left out, I'm surprised, that would be your manners, because you're, like, someone who belongs to such a stranger and with your pawn, someone who keeps thinking from the distant past, who cost us dearly, especially our economy. But you need here, as the minister responsible for work and employment, to explain to us what's going to happen tomorrow, 2005, February, what's going to happen February, March and beyond. You'll hardly be able to come out with some clear picture and project, since you're not the whole of Kostunica's government by now, and you probably won't even be able to tell us what you're planning, and we'll have a new election and a new power in which the radicals will have primate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11688	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11689	Mr. Minister, a member of 100 has been injured, or perhaps I could say so, Mr. MP, since you are an MP in this assembly. What you just said about life in Serbia, comparing it with life in Hungary and Slovenia, is offensive not only for MPs in the National Assembly, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't have the age to remember Communism so well, but it's obvious to you that it's quite deeply etched in memory and I've been warned of such. They had a saying like you once upon a time: statistics of our Dick, you want that picture. So now Mr. Minister said that over the past three years, the unemployment rate has fallen by two percentage points somewhat. It may be, but the number of employees has also dropped in comparison. In absolute numbers there are far fewer employees now than there were then. There's been a lot of excuses, for a while you were saying that jobs didn't even lose, because they didn't actually have them. If they had only had images, then when they had lost them, they had lost nothing. The other thing is that you've changed ways of keeping records of the unemployed. There have been changes in ways of leading the unemployed in the Republic market, i.e. the Employment Service, so that now some categories, which have been on the Bureau for years, have been managed neatly as unemployed, now you, after a few months, are off the list, unless they accept some requalification in occupations that they do not want to perform, etc. What is very important, and you should explain this better, how can you say that in Hungary there is a lower employment rate, that in Slovenia there is something slightly higher? Is that what you're saying, to us and to our citizens, that we actually live better than Hungarians, that we live better than Slovenians, and that we just don't know that. Is that it? Do we maybe live in some imaginary world, so we don't know how good we are? If that's the problem, fire some more workers if we're going to live better. It's obvious that it's some idea of your leadership in the past few years, that the more workers you fire, the better the rest of them. I assure you that is not the case and that the citizens of Serbia do not think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11690	Alexander Djordjevic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11691	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to welcome all representatives of the unions present today at the session of the Serbian Parliament. We have submitted the amendment to Article 24. It's a draft labour law. A colleague, Koprivica, made it clear that Article 24 of Article 1 must be put behind the words of life and add words - general health skills. What is also said in the explanation is what my colleague Natasa Jovanovic repeated - the minimum years of life and general health skills are two basic conditions for establishing a working relationship. I can resent the minister at his presentation today after this speaker, addressing the MPs, he said, any legislative proposal should be precise and clear. We have indicated this amendment - Article 24 is the first and primary member in Chapter II - Based working relationship and under 1. Conditions for a working relationship. I'll read that article 24th whole. It says this (paragraph 1): "A working relationship can be established with a person who has at least 15 years of life and fulfils other conditions for working on certain jobs, established by law or regulation on the organisation and systematization of jobs (hereinafter referred to as: Regulation). " (Station 2): "The Rules of Procedure determine the organisational parts of the employer, type of business, type and degree of professional training and other specific conditions for working on these jobs. "(Station 3): "The Rules of Procedure shall be brought by the Director, i.e. the Entrepreneur. "(Station 4): "The obligation to adopt a rule does not apply to an employer who has 10 and less employees. "Now this whole article 24, as a practical first and primary member, needs to define all of this, so behind the words of life should be added - general health skills. What it says in Article 25 or 80 of that article, which you mentioned here, should stand in Article 24, because Article 24 is the first and primary member to solve this particular issue, the establishment of a working relationship. I don't think it's necessary for this demagogue story of yours to end up here talking about employment. You have had the opportunity to address the National Assembly, the MPs here and all the citizens of Serbia, and to say all this information in the opening statement, defending this law that the Government has proposed to the National Assembly. We're perfectly accurate and clear. This article 24 has another objection. For example, paragraph 3 defines that the rulebook is adopted by the Director. The systemization rule is the most important act, and you cannot deny it, in a company that regulates the most sensitive issues for workers, from which surpluses arise, job creation, frequent abuses in the opening of unnecessary sectors for the employment of persons close to the director, etc. The Regulation should be adopted by the Management Board or by the Authority established by the Statute, and that is the only acceptable formulation to be regulated by law. Article 24 of course is not well-conceived, as is this law, and you have admitted in your statement that it is not good, by the very fact that you have said that this law should stand in the middle, either on the left or on the right. What does that mean? The law needs to be precise and clear, to protect the interests of employers and workers, especially the working class in this country. Those statistics you put out for this speaker a few minutes ago were to be presented in your opening statement. The essence of our amendments is that this law is conceived to protect the interests of the working class and workers in this country. You cannot tell us MPs in this congregation that we are acting incorrectly after this pay phone if we present our program to you and take into account everything that all those in this country who are interested in handling this area in the right way. Representatives of the union and workers in Serbia did not come to this session today to listen to your demagogue stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11692	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11693	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we in the SPS believe that this member has many shortcomings. First of all, we are convinced that the Regulation on organisation and systematization of jobs should be binding on employers who have five and more workers, and the current solution is 10 and more workers. In our deep opinion, companies that have eight or nine employees can also be very serious companies. This requires the employer to have a description of the jobs the employees work on. Without the systematization of the employee, every job can be imposed. When it comes to the rulebook, it's not just about organisational continents to have a rulebook. Specific jobs must be prescribed because, without such an act, workers do not have any legal protection. Up to five employees are mostly family firms and there's no need for a rulebook. The Systematisation Regulation defines all tasks carried out with the employer and therefore defines jobs. All of this is meant to protect employees of small businesses. For example, I know more of these companies and companies that have nine employees. In one company, besides the owners and directors, a graduate economist and eight workers are in direct production. Given that the employer has no obligation to adopt a regulation on organisation and systemization, that man, whom I know personally, does all the work very often. He's a commercial director, a financial director, a driver and everything the boss has assigned him. So all of this has to be considered and the regulation on organisation and systematization applies to companies that have five and more employees, because I think that's enough of these companies in our country. Also, when it comes to this member, working relationship can create a person who is at least 15 years old, and earlier the solution was at least 18 years old, and that was a better solution. Today in Serbia, people in full-time don't have a job at 30.35 years old. This is early. The labour law has defined this to 18 years, I think that our solution by 2001 was a better solution. What the minister says very often, we in the SPS noticed that in the 1990s it was hard to live, that those years were tragic, that it was small production. It's all true, but not to that extent, because we just have some valid data that's for example. The gross social product in 1997 and 1998 was greater than all the years after 2000. So 2001, 2002 and 2003 were smaller than 1997 and 1998. When it comes to those years, we always need to know what was going on in those years, that there were wars, that there were sanctions, that all of this was imposed on us, and if we in Serbia don't understand it, but we're telling a different story, that we're guilty, it's not going to take us anywhere. There's no unity, no unity, and no better result. We expect at least that from you, since you are the party's representative of the left hand option, the party that is now in power, the government and which we support.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11694	Thank you, Mr. Bushettic. This is the amendment to article 4, which was in the morning part of the session until 14.00 hours, but apparently Mr. Bushetic was not at the final part of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11695	Mr. Chairman, I reported to the Rules of Procedure as he chaired Mr. Markovic's Assembly. In the meantime, you switched, and he probably didn't give you the information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11696	I saw you pick up, but I thought you called about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11697	I accept your apology. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, systematically breaking, injuring Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says speakers are obliged to address MPs with respect. More specifically, a member of the 100th was broken every time yesterday and today whenever the minister came out for this pay phone and addressed the MPs. To forgive him yesterday, those crocodile tears, to forgive him, and to attribute to us all those whom he and his fellow revolutionist bulldozers fired, to forgive him for all this, but we cannot forgive him for this statistics the minister gave him for a moment. It's the least I can do to recommend the minister, it's to throw away that digitron; either his battery's out or he's Chinese and he skips. I wonder what they are looking for, Mr. Minister, union representatives when honey and milk flow in this Serbia, everything is in the best order, everyone is employed, employment is far higher now than in 2000, much higher than in 1999. The people are now receiving 300, 400 euros, as many as you already have, and then they received 50 marks. I wonder what they're looking for every other day in front of the government, those enthusiastic citizens who stand in line, and they jam Nemanja's street, yell, I just don't know if they're yelling out of enthusiasm or out of hunger. They're wearing passwords, but since it's raining, there's a possibility that the parolees will fall off, they'll be left in the hands of the stick, Minister, keep an eye out. One more thing, Mr. Minister, you've come to this bright home in front of the MPs who have this job, you've come to explain the laws to us, to convince us that we're voting for these laws, to convince us by the arguments why you haven't adopted these amendments that we're proposing, because the solution that you've proposed is much better. If you want to behave like this, go out and explain yourself, but more crocodile tears, Mr. Minister, you can do so in your local community, in your home council, in your house, you may be able to do so in your ministry, but in this assembly you cannot behave; or you will behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and respect the dignity of the MPs of the people, or you may choose to choose to go to the door, let someone better come.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11698	Mr Markovic, first, one thing to resolve, which is when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly will plead in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure is injured. I understand you insisted on it. If that's all you used to discuss, that's another question, then you hurt the Rules of Procedure. You just realized that he hurt the Rules of Procedure, you yourself. I can't figure it out, it's known that the Assembly is due to decide on a voting day. Therefore, the assembly will declare itself in the voting day. Another thing, please don't let anyone from the O.R. drive anyone out of the O.R., hence the MPs, nor the Ministers. So everyone has the right to discuss, and it is up to MPs to discuss what is true, and what is not, including what the minister said and whether, when it comes to one period, he spoke only about employees in the social sector, and when it comes to the second period, about the total number of employees. Let's leave it when we check the data and you check the data, and let's say it, not the flat-rate. So, I think, and I asked at the end of the session for the minister to deliver this data, he read it, and I think it would be good for MPs to get that data, but to get both for the social and private sectors throughout the period mentioned, not just for the social period in one period, but for the private period in another period. We are continuing the debate on the amendment. The amendment was discussed by MP Zoran Krasic, on the amendment of the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica to Article 24, where it is proposed, just to remind, since the debate on the amendment took a long time, that in Article 24, paragraph 1 behind the word "life" is stuck and add the words "general health capacity".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11699	Article 24. The bill should regulate the conditions for a working relationship. I purposely potential this – the conditions for establishing a working relationship, the conditions that the candidate needs, the pretender in the workplace to meet so that he can be employed. In this first part of this first sentence, there should probably be general terms. These general conditions so far, that I am not going back to some distant past, but since 1974, there have been two conditions, years of life and general health skills. So, general conditions for all working relationships, for all employees. I purposely potential this to be a matter of general conditions and all employees have to meet them; to explain it a little plasticly now. When a man is hired for the first time, he must meet these two conditions as a minimum. When he changes the company, with his work book, he carries his doctor's trust, he doesn't need to prove the general health skills again. Earlier, the establishment of a working relationship was based on the act of the employer’s competent authority, and now we have a working contract and there is no need to change anything about it. However, these innovations have mixed general conditions with special conditions, so specific conditions for working in certain places, etc., but this is not the subject of this member. What must concern us all, when an MP submits this amendment and says, please, there is no need to change something that exists, which has always existed in our working legislation, the Government, signed to us by the President, the Vice President, delivers an opinion on the amendments, and that is problematic. See what the Government says about this amendment – the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the draft labour law was delivered to the IOR. So the draft labour law delivered to the IOR and therefore no amendment is adopted. We need to read the bill a little bit, read the amendments, read that the IOR was given a draft to the proposal, probably suffered some changes, no one can guarantee us that this proposal went as a draft. When it starts with a really kind of defense of something that's unacceptable, then it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on. According to the IOR, it refers to the draft law, the candidate is obliged to notify the employer of his health status prior to the completion of the work contract that only if it significantly affects the performance of the work for which the working relationship is based. He also informs him of the medical assurance that he has general health skills, and of the beliefs that require special visual health skills, if it comes to airmen, those working on the depths below as divers, and even there are special professions where every six months workers have to go to check. So, there are those who work with food, where there's a duty of sanitary control, so as not to infect the citizens. It's this special medical skill. General health care needs everyone, so it wouldn't happen that as a general condition it's only 15 years of life, so a man takes this 15-year-old with no medical conviction about general health skills, so it's determined that there's no general health skills causing any injury, so why don't you tell a professional illness or some accident. This belief guaranteeing the general health capacity is in the function of protecting the employer, therefore, that he is sure that the one who has come, that he has an essential ability and that he can work. You know for a fact, a 15-year-old who is in a working relationship, with his own resources, gets a specific business ability.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11700	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11701	I'm reporting for the amendment, and I'd like to say something about general health skills. Whether a person who meets a legal obligation is based on a working relationship, means a person over the age of 15, or a worker who has already been in a working relationship, must bring medical assurance. Medical conviction is done by establishing the general psychological abilities of that person, therefore, for the work and its or its health. However, before entering work, that person who is employed and who is based on a working relationship must carry out a review called the previous review. This review is carried out by a specialist doctor of medical work and the programme for this review is specific to each profession. The program was published in the "Official Messenger" and all the services, institutes and shelters of the medical work adhere to it. So, to explain just one thing, general medical beliefs about general health skills mean nothing to themselves. It is necessary to do a doctor's examination, to do so expert, specialist in medical work, and team, he with his consultants, and to finally give medical assurance of strictly specific occupation. Whether it will be an occupation and a job with special working conditions, whether it will be work at height or, said Mr Krasic, the work of divers, means specific occupation, no significance. Therefore, medical assurance is issued according to strictly established criteria for each profession in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11702	Thank you. People's MP Petar Jojic came to the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11703	Ladies and gentlemen, I support the amendment to Article 24, which was submitted by MP Koprivica Bozidar, I think it is quite acceptable and effective in practice. I would like this opportunity, you will not, I hope, resent one piece of information to tell those MPs who may not have had the opportunity to hear the information concerning the laws and regulations passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia this morning. Yesterday, a food truck arrived in Serbia from Germany and equipment to help disabled and poor women in Serbia, for the municipality of Valjevo. Customs sealed off 5 drop-offs arriving from Germany and demanded that VAT be paid of 5.5 000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, it was amazing that a German representative said this morning on TV – you in Serbia respect government regulations more than hungry, poor and disabled, so now the question is, what should I do with these five helmets, whether to return them to Germany or leave them, so let customs with it tomorrow, with that goods and with that help, trade. That is what, ladies and gentlemen, the current authority does not have in mind and does not take sufficient account of the regulations and regulations it makes. These are the consequences of the SRS MPs. This is what has now created major problems in practice, and this VAT has made many people very angry today, because the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the parliament that passed such a law, has put their hands in the pocket of every taxpayer in Serbia. Is it necessary to re-sell humanitarian aid that has arrived to help the disabled, the poor and the hungry? Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying this because of the general public and I am telling you who voted for the adoption of such a shameful law, which in practice goes to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11705	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure in that attitude that says you can only talk about what's on the agenda of the session. The VAT isn't on the agenda today, we've already talked about it. But speaking of VAT, I must repeat once again that VAT is a law that has been passed in accordance with our country's needs and that VAT is a law that is for the benefit of all citizens. So it is a law that is in line with European legislation, which promotes the investment climate. In that sense, he may have something to do with what we are discussing today, as new jobs can only be provided if investments come to Serbia. In order for the investment climate, ladies and gentlemen, to improve, we need to have tax laws that are in line with what the world recognizes as such. When investors come to Serbia, they absolutely don't know what that means, but they clearly and perfectly know what VAT means. They have the same thing in their own lands. So, in order not to debate over and over, I thank you for having the opportunity to say again about VAT, but VAT is a law that will improve the investment climate, which will bring foreign partners into Serbia and that will allow workers to get new jobs. In that sense, he has something to do with the labour law. Otherwise, there's no other connection, and that's why I find it unnecessary for us to use this phone booth for the fifth time today for political promotion, not for what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11706	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11707	At the very least, it is inhumane for the other MPs to warn the predecessor that he did not talk about a subject that is on the agenda, and then talk for two minutes about a subject that is not on the agenda. But we asked around the people who brought this humanitarian aid and they said -- we know that VAT is a tax that you took from Europe, but in Germany there is no value added tax when humanitarian aid arrives. True, the Germans still don't need humanitarian help, so they say that's why we didn't see it coming. We thought you were a smart poor girl and you wouldn't ask the poor girl we're sending help to pay taxes on our help. So I suggest to you rich people, new rich people, those who got rich in a year, from the seventh row to the tenth, I suggest you reverse those 5 to 6 thousand euros, that's nothing to you, pay for this poor man's value added tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11708	MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11709	I demonstrate the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100 – the dignity of the MPs and the National Assembly. Otherwise, I'm OK 11, but it's really interesting this way to discuss in the Serbian Parliament, and it's from the people who, over the last decade, have ruined the economy here, who have completely led the country to the brink of destruction and now -- when someone is trying in different ways to regulate this country, to put it into order of the normally developed European countries, it's far more difficult now than in that way of destruction that happened in the last decade -- those who did just that... (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who was doing it? ). (I hope these throws can be made)... It is those who have done this to us who now honor what we want to bring the state into a normal state. I find it not appropriate to spread such messages to this congregation either. Let's not talk about who got rich, who's at which bar what he was doing, etc. If we start to bring it up, and I have a folder here on all of it, then we'll get far, so don't touch G17 plus, because G17 plus is a serious party, who wants to make this country a modern European country and you can't stop us from doing that. Everything else is empty demagogue stories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11710	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, I presume, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11711	I've got a clipboard, but you're gonna take my value added tax on that boot. Yes, we've ruined the country, if you count on us. We have recognised all external debts, we have written off everything that others owe us, we have introduced European prices to utility and energy, we have closed domestic banks, we have closed domestic insurance companies, we have left the financial market to foreigners, we have brought the country into slavery, we have broken the SCG Army, we are breaking Serbia and Montenegro, we write off Kosovo and Metohija, yes, we are called G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11712	MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11713	I'm re-demonstrating the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100, and I will admit to you that you are the country that led almost to slavery. If it hadn't been for five-octobaric changes, there would have been a lot of things. Now, I can tell you, and as far as G17 plus is concerned, that we are responsible for the macroeconomic stability of the country, we are responsible for the country getting a write-off from the Paris and London Club, we are now able to be able to pay off the loans and we don't have to re-indebt, we are responsible because this country has a solid dinar, and you can no longer convince anyone that we're not, because every man knows what's in his pocket. We are responsible for financial stability in the country, but certainly you are responsible for the lack of political stability in the country. That's the point. If you think you're fighting with us, you're arguing, you're not going to go well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11714	Here you go, Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11715	Now that we've given each other information, I accept that we have compromised the country's political stability because we are referring to the letter "O", the opposition. That's the only reason we can't accept that G17 plus runs the country. I can't accept thieves running the country. I'm putting some of your officials into thieves. Some that you brought from abroad and gave them citizenship to become state officials, and put them into thieves and destroyers of this country. Maybe the state has a solid dollar, maybe you run a macroeconomic policy well, but you don't see a man at all. Did you ask Serbian citizens what their money was like? Did you ask them if they were busy? Where's that promise of yours for a year new cars, and for two years flats and houses. Have you forgotten that? When do you think you're leaving the back of the people? Do you know that everyone has forgotten the devastating consequences of JUL brought to this country because you showed up. We thought there was nothing worse than JUL. Perhaps in some other form you would appear as worse than those who are now, and this can no longer be endured, to suffer. If you mean political stability, thank God for having higher goals, but you are increasingly coming to Serbia's highest goal, to bring down G17 plus with power. We are getting closer to bringing you down, rather than worrying about much more important matters of the state, because you have completely endangered the state. From the root rocking state you from G17 plus, you so-called Experts, you international triggers the destruction of Serbia. We're on the verge. Tell you this to Vojislav Kostunica: either he will put up with you in power a little while longer, so he will have no one to talk to, or he will shake you off; or he is different from you, or he is the same as you. I can't believe the Prime Minister doesn't see what you're doing to him. I can't believe it. He either doesn't want to see it, or he's working with you. I tell you, whoever cooperates with you, a just punishment awaits him. What you did to Serbia didn't even do to NATO's pact by bombing. The damage he has done with the bombing is less than the damage you do every day; or do you want me to take you from the company to the firm and see what you do to them, do you want me to take you from the bank to the bank and people are complaining to you why you're closing banks? Do you know Jelasic's reasons for closing banks? You don't, he says, capable of management. You change management a lot. You've got non-solid plasmas. I don't like you. You're not in G17 plus, you haven't given us any money in a while. We don't want to put up with you. We have banks in the West. Don't think the citizens of Serbia don't see it. You're singing "the swan song." Maybe not. Maybe it's Dinkic's song. I can't decide who's worse yet, but I'm ordering Miroljub Labusuono to order Vojislav Kostunica: either you're with Dinkic, or you're without him. What Dinkic is doing to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11716	Mr. Nikolic, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11717	This is how he embarrasses all of you in this room, this is how he makes this cheerful Albianic come out to defend him, it's the twilight of Serbian politics. Well, so you know that you've been squirming because you had to cooperate with JUL, how many MPs in this room now because he has to work with G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11718	Mr. Albianic, you will, by the Rules of Procedure, I assume, ask that we bring your mutual discussion to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11719	Mr. Chairman, I did not use inappropriate words here in the Assembly, but someone else. I have to demonstrate the breach of the Rules of Procedure, according to Article 100. I'll tell you, I'm afraid citizens don't forget, too, that most of them lost their jobs just when you were in power. You can't explain to people that it's better to be on an emergency vacation than to work, and that's what you've been doing. As far as JUL is concerned, I'm sorry that this samar is hurting you so much, because you were in a coalition with these people, and that time was the darkest time in Serbia's history, and it was during that period that it was the persecution of journalists and Serbian journalism when the ministry was in your hands, not to mention worse things. It was one comprehensive Satanization of the people of this country. What's important is to point out, it's good that you admitted that the country suffered enormous damage during the bombing, but your policy in the coalition with JUL is responsible for what happened in this country at all. Where is the responsibility of politicians for bringing the country into such a state? Never has this country been an opponent to almost the whole world. Don't worry, I am happy by nature and optimist, because this country is not run by you but by responsible and honorable people, who need to rebuild what you have brought down.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11720	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11721	Thank you. Under Article 100, very short. I hope we get back on the agenda, and 90% here that was just said for G17 plus, with that G17 plus has nothing to do with it. Of course, I'm talking about my negative connotation and what some of them just brought out for G17 plus. Also, 90% of G17 Plus MPs have not been on anyone's back, not on the taxpayer's coat of arms, because they were not MPs, and unlike some who had spent their entire century working and others on the burden of taxpayers. Whether I am now or never again, go out for a pay phone and say so, and that will be decided by Serbian citizens. It's called democracy, which in your time, unfortunately, didn't work that way. I have no custom, and I will not do it, to go out for a pay phone and to respond to these remarks, but when someone very rudely starts to refer to MPs, and mentions the context of rich people or I don't know what else, the G17s plus all of them, before they come to the salary of taxpayers as MPs, they've been doing their jobs and they've lived off their work, and they'll probably keep on doing that. I really hope that everyone in this country very soon, whether it's G17 plus or some of them, will be rich. Members of the G17 Plus, which you have called here as some rich people, including me, and today live from their work, live as tenants, gentlemen, driving cars that are over 20 years old. I don't know what kind of rich people they are. I really hope that in this country we will reach some other standards very quickly, and that's why G17 plus me and I will stand up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11722	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11723	So let's go back to the topic, and the topic is, as you know, the draft labour law. I have submitted an amendment to Article 33. A bill of this law. As you know, article 33 defines what the labor contract contains. There is a 13-point list of what it contains, among other things, such as: names and headquarters of the employer, name and last name of the employee, place of residence, i.e. residence, type and degree of professional training of the employee, type and description of the jobs that the employee should carry out, etc. With this amendment to Article 33, I propose that after point 3, which says that the labour contract contains the type and degree of professional training of the employee, a point that reads: "3a) special, specialist training". So, I think it is very important that in the contract on work, along with the type and degree of professional training, the data on special training and skills that the employee has, because there are a number of specialist courses in various areas for which employees, as well as persons waiting for employment, are assigned according to theiraffinities. Otherwise, everywhere in the world there is a trend that exactly the person who is employed will be as trained as much as possible to perform a particular piece of work as possible, to be an expert on a particular type of work, so I don't think this argument of the government in which it rejects this amendment and says it's not clear what is meant by "specialist training". For example, that term implies, say, language knowledge, computer skills, stenography. There can also be various specializations, for example, in law and economic colleges, there are various one-year specializations, such as those of you. In law school, they make up an international contract specialist, which, when you're done, essentially doesn't change the degree of certain professional equipment. They are therefore within the same degree of expertise. The government also says in its explanation that the employer can otherwise inform himself of other skills and abilities of the employee. However, I know that so far it has been a practice to make through various personnel services the files of employees in which, for example, it is written, but it is very binding that it stands in the labour law, because although it exists in some form, I think the concept is obsolete. It's very important that the employer monitors the employee, monitors all his specializations, expertise and affinities. It may sound avant-garde at this point, but in any case, I think it is necessary and that such services and such a way of records exist in all modern companies, which really make sure that they make the most of the employee's potential. For that very reason, I have proposed this amendment and I don't think anything would bother the concept of the law to be found in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11724	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11725	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Serbian Union, I hope this most representative, since I don't know who is hosting the gallery today, the amendment of colleague Nestorovic is correct and there is only one problem: when in this way, quite narrowly, the rules under which someone can be employed can become a source of manipulation for those who hire. I'll give you a concrete example. For more than 15 years in the historical archives in Chačka, executives hired members of their families, saying that a middle, higher or high professional prepares and archival course from the King is needed. Then they draw them nicely, they spread the contest, and no one else can answer it. In this way, in a formal way, practically, they introduce a nepotistic principle in employment, which is unacceptable from our point of view. Of course, this can also help, provided he's an employer or one who decides who needs to be an employee of elementary honesty. I have to say, with all due respect, unfortunately, today in Serbia mostly employs those with whom honesty could in any way be polluted, one way or another. It's gonna be a while, so things are gonna work out the way they're supposed to. That's why this amendment, which is basically good, we can't support it. It will, of course, allow a large number of people to be unpotious or otherwise employed, as they would say, with a photograph. I discuss the contest, send a photo that I don't publish, and then I hire. That's why it's more important to have a general principle than this detail, which can make it possible for one who employs opportunities that are not of interest to all those looking for a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11726	The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11727	I think Mr. Baralic, my dear colleague, and I didn't understand at all. I wasn't talking here about a job competition where, of course, you can cite certain, let's say, particulars of that kind, like, what are the desired courses of knowledge, that you kind of influence and manipulate these competitions. I was talking about that it's good that through a contract on work in a completely different way, I think, and much more effectively, basically keeping records of the potentials and skills of the employees, because it can benefit the employer himself, first of all, if he respects it and has constant insight into it. Now, I know there are personnel services, but they never use that information, because they're standing around in drawers, and nobody's taking care of it. It's very important that the employer has in mind at all times that if, for example, I've graduated from law school and I also have some specialist course that gives me special knowledge, as I just said, and I stick to this example of signing international contracts, that's what's going to benefit him, not just to me, but to him and the whole system. So I don't think he can do any harm, because that's not the way to manipulate himself. Besides, if you look at it that way, then every thing in life, including this law, can be used or abused. Of course, it should be disabled as much as possible by the legal proposal itself, but ultimately, it is not an idea to watch how it can be misused, but how it can be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11728	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by the Commissioner of the Verse of Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11729	It seems that Minister Lalovic was still using that digitron that he used at the time he was the secretary of the extraprofit commission, when he applied that unconstitutional law and when he determined extraprofit and where he shouldn't and where he should've gone, and they went the way they did on that extraprofit, and then the one who took the chains and locks came in, and he played with the state -- took the giving. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, when she spoke about her amendment, told the minister that it was obvious that the minister had not written this bill. I have here evidence that the minister has given someone to translate some text and that there has been an obvious error or disagreement regarding this article 35. The proposal for this law and the position of the 4th Article 136. The PIO Act. In Article 35, you said: "The employer is obliged to provide the employee with a photocopy of the application to compulsory social security no later than 15 days from the date of entry into service. "We have invested the amendment here, for the real safety of employees, to add the PIO. You rejected it with an explanation that it was already contained, but in Article 136. The PIO Act. It says - the applicant is obliged to submit to the person for whom he has submitted an application for insurance, i.e. a check-out, a certified photocopy of the receipt of that application, or a check-out within eight days of the date of its publication. If I were that employer, I don't know if I'd do it within eight days of this law or within 15 days of this bill. Obviously, the minister does not know the law and does not know about the collapsing of these two laws, and they have to be applied in the same way, in fact they should be applied equally, because they are applied by the same persons in relation to the same employees. With the minister here all day trying to go back in history, about twenty years back, about the number of unemployed and the number of those paid or not paying PIO, I will remind the minister that I have been asked by workers of the Zemun IMP to transfer the minister and on their behalf to ask him, after they have repeatedly addressed him, to tell him that they have not been paid for 18 months, that they have not been paid either pension or other insurance, that they were allegedly bought by former coalition partner ministers, Slobodan Radulovic, the famous "owner" Centroprom. And that Mr. Radulovic kept them literally trapped in the IMP, they come there, they work, their account is blocked, they can't sell their products, and Radulovic only bought them because his son-in-law went to Switzerland and there's a representative of a factory that manufactures knives, and then, to place those knives that his son-in-law imports, trying to close the IMP and to keep 200 families employed in the IMP without bread here. That's one of your problems, Minister Lalovic. I told you this one more time, and you didn't react. You didn't react in the meantime, when I put it out in public, because IMP workers say - please state it, we're small, the government doesn't care about us, the trade court is doing what it thinks, Kljajevic abuses the laws on our case, we can't get to the expression next to the big ones, next to "Knjiz Miloša", next to "Centroprom", "Centroprom", problem companies in terms of privatisation, and in terms of taking action. That's why small, like the Zemun IMP, suffers from torture, doesn't receive salaries, they're in a much worse position than the ones you mention, who were on a forced vacation, because they don't have any wages, nor for transportation, nor for a warm meal, they use their family's cell phones because they don't have the money to pay for those IMP companies. But they are persistent and I am convinced they will endure, that they will win this powerful Radulovic and the Serbian government, which supports Radulovic and Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11730	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, this is this controversial member I tried to draw attention to in principle, but I was surprised by your response to the amendment submitted by my colleague, Verica. The former concept - mandatory social security, a joint service that was later divided into three funds, was later changed as regulations changed, as the state changed, and is now called the National Employment Service, the Health Insurance Office and the PIO Fund. I've already been quoted as saying that in order not to repeat it, I brought from the service across from our office the application you're talking about in three copies. The M-3a form, which after surrendering and certifying the PIO's competent service, returns to the employer, certified photocopy to the employee. There's a regulation, there's an impossible one application, that used to be one, so in multiple copies it was given, in three. One goes to the PIO Fund, the other to the Health Insurance Office and the E-1 form to the National Employment Service. They're all in a number of copies, they're in a certain procedure, they're wearing, eight days is a deadline, and they're threatening a prison sentence for a violation at the time of the law's adoption of 5,000 to 400,000 dinars. This is where 800,000 to 1,000,000 dinar prisons are threatened. I wanted to say that what's already regulated by regulations, there's practice, it's not unknown, and I was more bothered by your argument, that it's a revolt, that it's something new in the law, where workers' rights are being achieved better than before. A lot's not better than before. Mr. Minister, I don't see you so skillfully defending yourself when you're being blamed for the fact that the law is guilty of someone getting a job or losing a job, the law is not to blame. I've had opportunities, a thousand solutions or a decision to start a working relationship or get fired to sign. They were all done in accordance with the law, not because of the law. We hired workers because we needed workers, the company developed, the capacity increased, so we needed a worker, or we fired, when there were reasons why the worker should be fired, or the worker himself to quit, again in accordance with the law or sometimes not in accordance with the law, so he was led by the dispute and we agreed on it. It's not the law that gets or loses a job. If it's business, there's more jobs, if it doesn't work, less, you've explained it well, and it's not your fault. That's why I was in the discussion in principle and I said -- where luck is it that ministers in the government, other ministers, businesses, agriculture, work better, or have programmes, so that more people are hired and employed. Then you who solve social problems would have had less to do, both for you and for the people and for the workers. In that sense, since I have a little time, and coke when he lays an egg of clumps, and the second time he lays an egg again, the clumps. It's no better than an egg. The egg looks like an egg. This law looks like an egg. There are several provisions that are much worse in terms of the scope of the rights that workers need to exercise, and try to show themselves better. I'll talk about those provisions when they're in order, because every egg doesn't lay a chicken, if the rooster isn't good, it's not worth it, but it's no good for an egg to be a pussy, it doesn't smell right. In that sense, when it comes to regulations that are understandable, applicable, someone is reading the regulation and it is immediately clear, someone is reading the regulation and commentary of that regulation, and yet it is not clear to him. It is important that these regulations are acceptable and applicable, and they cannot solve the problem themselves. It's important that these regulations apply. If we consistently apply these regulations, when we adopt this, we can immediately close all major systems, only because of what they won't be able to do in a month's time to calculate their earnings and show the worker how much they've earned, because they're six months late. Not to be long around this amendment, it's said enough, I don't see why it's written like that, I don't know why deadlines are different, why this provision stands in this law at all, when it's well explained, because these things are regulated so far quite clearly. Maybe if someone didn't apply it, then control can determine that the employer should put it in order and apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11732	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, in Article 35, the nature of this labour law is seen, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly, which should address issues that are important and important for all workers in this country and what is particularly important, to respect the objections that have just been made by representatives of various trade unions, which should have been respected and taken into account when this bill was found before the National Assembly. Of course, in view of this Article 35, the SRS has made it clear what should be defined by the amendment, that the employer is obliged to make mandatory application of the pension, disability and social security employee at the same time. Also, what has been an objection to certain trade unions is prescribed by this member of the employer to provide the employee with a photocopy of mandatory social security applications. A special objection can be made to this Article 35, and it shows that the law is half a solution and that it is not good, because there are no criminal provisions, sanctions in case of disrespect. It is necessary to lay down criminal provisions as this obligation is meaningless without them. That is the essence of this Article 35, which is not well-conceived. We have submitted an amendment, a colleague of the Verica Radeta, a MP of the SRS, and what I said about a complete member of the 35th is to be declared by the National Assembly. This law is not well done. It is simply a half solution and it is true that it is in the middle between what the previous government and the government of the Democratic Party and this one have brought. And here we are, above all, as people's representatives who need to protect the interests of all citizens of Serbia, especially workers. And what's important is to protect their social interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11734	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11735	I'd like to say some information. What is now this amendment we are talking about, about applying to mandatory social security and photocopy, is a sanction in the law unless it is delivered. It was said earlier that no sanctions were provided. So there's a fine of 800,000 to a million dinars. You can take a look at the infringing provisions. That's what that solution is all about. This includes all three aspects of mandatory social security. You know for a fact that a social contribution law has been passed here. As you know, also, as a generic category, there are three contributions and we're practically strengthening through this fight against working on black, and we think this is going to be a much more effective way of curbing work on black than anything that has ever been. So, when it comes to this provision, it can only be useful and it can be useful, above all, to those workers who work on black, and according to those estimates, it's about 380,000, as well as to some who might come into the situation to work on black. This is one of the means to reduce as much as possible in Serbia. I was talking about it, so one of the funds. There are other means, such as changes in the tax system, a reduction in burdens and a number of other measures to be taken, but this is one of the uncomplicated measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to significantly reduce work on black, which I think can only be of general interest. What I also think is significant here in the amendments discussed so far, today that we have heard, there are several questions that have been practically open. It seems clear to me in this debate that these few important things, so I'm not talking about irrelevant little things, it's this member, when it comes to applying to mandatory social security and photocopy, that he is needed and useful for Serbia and for employment in Serbia. Then, what took away a lot of debate seems partial to me and because these are new solutions, so we're not used to it, as she talks about health skills in general, what we talked about. So, we have made it perfectly clear there, in accordance with normal practice in normal countries, that it is not an advance obligation for workers to bring health care paper, that it is assumed that it is healthy. It is something that is completely in the interests of workers, but also employers, to reduce formalism, but of course they have both the employer and the state right to have them, if they establish a job application, that and how it will of course be checked. That doesn't bother at all, and it has nothing to do with it. What's also being discussed about the age of 15 to 18, I think it's clear that in two members of that matter we fully regulate in the interest of those 15 to 18 years, so simply that amendment does not stand for a very obvious reason either. So these are simply some things that seem to me that we have made clear today in some general interest, because I see this debate as a contribution to the citizens of Serbia finding out what is actually what is going to be in this law, how it will be applied, what is going to happen. In this regard, the matter we talked about in terms of the futility of the contract is that it is in the best interest of this particular industry, not those amendments that have been made, because their adoption would mean the harm actually being done to Serbia's workers, and I simply think that it should be summed up in a clear way today. As for some general assessment of the law that has been given here and there today, of course we will discuss it more and have a clearer picture when we have passed all the amendments, so I wouldn't be giving a complete assessment today. Just another very personal note, not related to the law, but related to the relations that should be in this assembly, at least in my confidence for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. I think we've had enough, quite enough of this people, and he's tired of animosity, aggression, violence. I think we're tired of it all together. Today here, unfortunately, there was one moment, one case where one of the MPs in some way demanded that another MP, given the circumstances of the minister, but the MP, should leave the room for that too. I have to say it's just sad and sad for me, and nothing else. It's always sad and sad when in some way a kind of violence, even verbally, remains as the only argument. You know very well what happens when we move from force of arguments to argument of force. I think it's pretty ugly, and I would simply appeal and invite all MPs, for Serbia's citizens, to rule out that practice and really try to make an argument, because I believe that everyone who sits in this room wants the best for this country and for the citizens of Serbia. Each of us may be mistaken, but it can only be a delusion, not an evil intention to harm the citizens of Serbia or Serbia. If that's how we understand each other's relationship and each other's discussion, then hopefully, we'll avoid such ugly ones, and I'd say, above all, sad images and scenes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-02-0.u11736	Let's just conclude with this amendment. I don't suppose anyone will answer this amendment again. We're finishing today's work. Resume session tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
