ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20558	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 124, paragraph 5 is very disputable. It concerns the following substances: "If veterinary-sanitary control has established that previous consignments from the exporting country or from a specific establishment of origin were safe for use and followed by correct international veterinary certificates, the import and transport authorisation shall be issued without laboratory control of the consignment of products of animal origin, food of animal origin or animal feed". So a very discriminatory attitude, and a member himself, is why the experience we have so far with various correct international certificates has put us in a position to question the correctness of such certificates. I am surprised that the promoter did not take care of what happened only a few years ago with such international certificates and subsequent analyses that showed that certain goods, or products from abroad, despite having had adequate quality supporting documentation, were not correct for use. I would remind you that a few years ago from donation to Serbia, with perfectly proper documentation, vaccines were sent to children who were poisonous. Let the proposer of this law take a little time to read the paper and see what's going on with these current problems of the animal-carriage flu. This is about food for people of animal origin, so livestock. I am surprised that the promoter already allows for the import of certain products of animal origin, that they are not subject to constant laboratory control, especially since it is not only meat, as some think it is, but also bar products, sausage products, which are extremely prone to loss of quality in the transport itself and during the production process. Why should we, in view of this experience with these international correct documents, allow us to rely solely on them and why our laboratories would not constantly control products and food of animal origin, especially when it is not the cost of the state, especially what the importer has to pay for, means the one who plans to sell goods on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I have the impression that this position in Article 124 is the result of the pressure of the import lobby, which is increasingly present in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and which is increasingly jeopardising the domestic agricultural industry, and above all I think of the slaughterhouse industry and the farm industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20559	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20560	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as far as we can see, are not present today, so this law is not important to her. On behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 126(1). The proposal for a veterinary law, which reads in Article 126, point 1 after the word "animal" is deleted and the words "and cloned embryos" are added. It's a member who regulates the import of pathogens. The government should have accepted this amendment, as not accepting this amendment allows imports of everything and everything. They should have accepted the amendment to Article 115; and there I suggested that the words "and cloned embryos" be inserted. The government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason that, under the term "fertile egg cell" all stages of embryo development, regardless of the way in which fertilisation is done, there is no wholeness of special separation of the idea of cloned embryo. The government does not accept this through imports of reproductive material and does not accept it through imports of pathogens, thus allowing Serbia to import everything and everything. I think the government should at least accept an amendment to Article 115 if this one won't. The country of Serbia will be a rich country when it becomes an exporter of branches and has ideal conditions for the development of agriculture, livestock, fruit growing. I propose that the current government urgently pass a law on the restoration, i.e. the rebirth of the Serbian village, so that Serbia becomes a rich country and an exporter of food. I think the Minister's absence alone says enough that the government is not interested in the area of agriculture and livestock.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20561	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Vladislav Kronic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20562	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few words about this amendment. For the sake of the public, I will read Law 126, which says that it is forbidden to import live microorganisms of pathogens for animals. So it's about microorganisms. It is widely known that microorganisms reproduce in another way rather than embryos. Therefore, this amendment should not be related to this member, and cloned embryos refer to another area of biology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20563	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by MP Prvoslav Savic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk ambassador, Prvoslav Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 158. Proposal for a veterinary law requiring that in point 13) be followed by the word "item 1." add the words "and point 2.". Twenty days ago, I also appealed to you, the assembly majority, to accept that this amendment to Article 158, as well as to Mr Zoran Mašić's amendment to Article 96, because they are tied to each other, and would have been accepted by the 2nd Amendment to Article 96, following Article 1 of Article 1, I have obtained the condition for accepting my proposed amendment to Article 158. By adopting these amendments, the proposal for a veterinary law would become more complete, i.e. in Articles 96 and 158 more precise for all those involved in animal production and transport. Article 2 clearly determines when the means of transport of animals must be recorded with the Ministry and when it is sufficient to meet technical and hygiene requirements only. For the sake of better information from our producers, as well as those who are going to be transporting, I must say, Article 158. The bill, with its 35 points, only regulates how to place the hand in the pocket of producers, or animal carriers, as far as possible. how to get cash as drastically punished as possible. For these reasons, the acceptance of Article 2 would give rise to conditions for those implementing this law to be partially restricted in interpretation, i.e. punishment. Non-acceptance of these amendments, i.e. Article 2 will only give an even wider possibility of abuse when punishing our citizens who are engaged in the production and transport of animals. Thus, the manufacturer will be punished by one of those 35 points in Article 158, as well as by the carrier, so that the final buyer will suffer from the price of both live animals and products obtained from them. I am counting us from the only opposition party in this House, because we see ourselves as a fraction of this people, which for you, gentlemen of the position, could not be said, because you are merely showing by your views how many of these thin scales that are called power have climbed above us, the other citizens of Serbia. The lines of which these scales are made up of are very weak, so you're going to pop like a dulek when some of them give in, and they're already terriblely wrinkling. I also have to remind our citizens that this bill twenty days ago, in exactly the same form, was in the assembly procedure and as such did not receive the required number of votes. Now, after this re-debate on him, the agriculture minister expects him to be accepted. She knows that she's trading, so she used her ability to trade with those who support this government, and I thought that by not accepting this law, they care about the interests of our citizens. Still, I think they only care about their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20565	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 158 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Krstin. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20566	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 158 to add the words "and cloned embryos" after the word "animals". Namely, point 29) is said – if it imports live micro-organisms of pathogens for animals, unless an exceptional ministry issues an import licence exclusively for scientific research purposes. The Ministry may specifically approve imports of pathogens for scientific research work, for working on immunophilic agents, vaccine and serum production bases and diagnostics themselves. The funds referred to in this Article, i.e. pathogens, are used in strictly controlled conditions, which must meet the needs of the level of biosecurity, i.e. that handling them is strictly safe. Uncontrolled imports and the use of pathogens can seriously endanger human health, animal health, and lead to the occurrence of infectious diseases, with the possibility of outbreaks, as many diseases that are susceptible to human health and the life of the population. All of this inevitably leads to a decrease in production capacity, and there is a risk of economic damage, which pathogens can cause unconscious and uncontrolled use. The absence of control of imports of pathogens can endanger the country's international status on the absence of a disease, which is a real threat to the entire country's economy within a longer and shorter period. Imports of such material must be carried out through authorised companies for such a type of activity, which in practice requires special transport conditions, the way they are stored, which are closely linked to the Ministry which prescribes these strict import norms. With this amendment, I wanted the words "animals" to be added, "and cloned embryos", because cloned embryos cause numerous misunderstandings and unknowns in the direction these organisms behave in the environment. Is there a real danger that they as such cause diseases, because there is no information whether they are through DNA carriers of the disease and whether at the level of the genome they are safe for human and animal health. The ban would practically mean certainty in the fact that through cloned embryos, we import potential carriers of infectious diseases, because the procedure for obtaining them is very risky. It is sufficient that in the production of cloned embryos, several atoms of carbon are separated from the structure of DNA and that it significantly disrupts the production of protein, which significantly determines the direction of growth and development of the clone itself. The clones, in their previous experience, have much more intense growth and development, so, as such, they could contribute seriously to the complications of a cloned embryo itself. A cloned embryo, implanted into its carrier, would have elements of malignant tumors, as it would simply outgrown the frames of the natural embryo by its hypergrowing and would have created a complicated situation that the newborn was created by cloning at the time of arrival to the world for several months, and that the parameters of its size and weight were fatal to the individual wearing this cloned embryo. It's not known how a single woman could bring a mutant like this into the world without jeopardizing her own life. The invisible mutations they can carry with them pose a potential danger, because no one can safely claim that cloned embryos are currently safe or genetic mutation can be determined after several generations, and the risk of this guy, you'll admit, is not needed at all because we care about generations behind us. All exposed elements contribute to the first control of the work with cloned embryos in addition to pathogens, which also pose a major threat to human and animal populations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20567	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20568	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few words about the explanation, which is why the amendment of the People's MP Milorad Krstin does not accept: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that there are no provisions in the bill concerning cloned embryos." There, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and gentlemen of the Ministry, is a problem – why in this law, which should be something that will regulate this matter for the next few years, there is no member of the law relating to cloned embryos. A problem in the world, a huge problem everywhere in the environment, and you didn't find it appropriate to put one member of the law that would regulate it. National MP Mr. Kronic made it clear last time we discussed that cloning is a dead end. Why don't we stop that dead end with this law? Do you want us to leave everything to the consciousness and conscience of those who will be involved in the importing of all materials next to other pathogens and cloned embryos? That's the point. Go back to work, do one member, accept this amendment, and everything will be settled.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20569	Anyone else want a word? The word is made by MP Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20570	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to clarify one misunderstanding that has come to light on this amendment. This amendment refers to criminal provisions in which "clonal embryos" are to be added to a member who prohibits the import of pathogens. There's no room for clone embryos again. The issue of cloned embryos is a broader issue than the veterinary law. This is about veterinary law, animal health, animal welfare, and the question, in biology, cloned embryos, is not just about animals. Besides animals, this planet is inhabited by other organisms. It would be logical in your claim that it should be regulated by law, but not only by the veterinary law, but by a comprehensive law. That's why I think the better solution that's in the law is for micro-organisms, than to put something in that law that doesn't have space, in a biological sense, amongst micro-organisms, which is cloned embryos. Of course, I'm staying with my claim that it was a dead end and there's no room in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20571	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20572	Mr. Kronic, we fully agree on the need to ban some system law. Why don't we start with the vet law? Why don't we ban the import of cloned embryos of animals, so when the health law comes, then we'll talk about that segment of cloned and human organisms. When the next agricultural law comes, because soon it will come, the one we adopted recently is wrong, then we'll discuss genetically modified organisms, but let's start to solve this issue once, because it'll cost us a lot if we don't regulate it legally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20573	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dragan Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 164a be added after article 164a. Since the Government and the Committee on Agriculture have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dr Zoran Masic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 164a be added after article 164a. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture have not adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20574	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, certainly after withdrawing from the procedure of the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, and by accepting a somewhat modified amendment that I have submitted in the previous debate on this law. So the modified amendment adopted by the Committee and the Government, submitted by Mr Petrovic, was the basis for me to withdraw this amendment. However, I felt that this would not be right, because our professional veterinary community will be the most measured court and assess which amendment is better and whether the Government should have accepted the amendment that I submitted in the original debate, and again in this repeated debate on the veterinary law, or whether the amendment that the government has adopted, which was submitted by Mr Petrovic. The essence of the amendments I have submitted, to be defined as a special member of 164a, is that the Government, in the privatisation process of the public veterinary service, adopts a prior programme under which privatisation will be carried out, because I believe, in the extreme and the profession, that the Government should have a concrete privatisation programme of the service that has been state-owned and which should be privatised for the next year. Given the fact that there is a constitutional obligation to provide animal health care throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is necessary that in the privatisation process of that state service there is a specific programme that will mean that this service is first privatised, to remain in the hands of veterinary entities. The bottom line is that this service is not bought by some persons or by some companies that are completely outside of veterinary professions and veterinary activities, because although this service has been a public service for the last 14 years, it has essentially received from the state only part of the funds through the implementation of the programme of measures, and most of the revenues of the veterinary station and other public veterinary institutions have been made on the market by their own revenues. They also invested in basic means of work, equipment and facilities, so it would be absolutely fair to privatise this service and to own those who raised it, invested and spent a lifetime in the service. The substance of the amendment proposed by Mr Petrovic implies that the government should make a decision. I don't think it's disputed that the government should first decide to privatise a state service. Because the state service cannot even go into privatisation unless the government, as the executive body of this Parliament, decides that the service is privatised, but nothing further remains what is meant after the decision has been made. This is the fundamental difference between the amendments I have submitted, where I propose that the Government develop a privatisation programme and what has been accepted as an amendment and what will be entered into this bill – that the government only makes a decision. In my opinion, and for most people in the profession, it is understood that the government must make a decision within the next year to enter the privatisation process. How this privatisation will be carried out, by which model, whether it will be tendering, whether it will be auction sales and how it will be sold, this service compared to the proposal of this amendment that will be adopted and which will stand in the law cannot have a vision and cannot assume. I am sincerely concerned that in the privatisation process, when it comes to its realization, there may be such privatisation that some public veterinary establishments, whether they are veterinary cells or veterinary institutes, will go into the hands of people who are not from the veterinary profession, and yet it is a significant activity and expertise that I again underline and the obligation of the state to provide animal health protection throughout the area. I regret that the proposer of this law, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, did not accept my amendment, although I am undermining again, after the withdrawal of the law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys at the very least this amendment I have proposed would have to be processed, because I have put those institutes that were outside the system of state institutes into the privatisation process under this bill on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys. But it is also good that something is in this law, which means the form and the way of privatisation, rather than that, in essence, the Bill of Law by the Proposer was given that on this subject, so to speak, i.e. that nothing was done for this procedure. So a small correction is made by this amendment, which is now definitely accepted by the promoter, but this will continue to cause fear and suspicion in the public veterinary service until that moment until it enters the privatisation process, and perhaps my personal doubts will be found out, and may be unfounded at the very end. All that I have done and what I am saying behind this speaker was precisely on the basis of the requirements of the profession expressed in the public debate process on the draft law and at various scientific and professional meetings where the draft legislation in the veterinary field was discussed. I felt that I should explain the proposal for this amendment, even though he, in this form, would have to endure the changes, given the withdrawal of this previous law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20575	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Dragoslav Milkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20576	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government has not accepted the amendment on privatisation to Article 164, but has modified and turned out to be a proposal G17 plus. The veterinary profession is very important for Serbia, which is a special profession that should now be privatised under this proposal, and I would draw attention to the government, or representatives of the ministries, to create a special programme on taking over the veterinary profession. Don't make it happen like other public enterprises - to have various affairs, to have a robbery privatisation, but to have the advantage of people from the veterinary profession who have worked for 20 or 30 years and to participate in the privatisation. It is unimaginable that newly roasted tycoons buy veterinary units, i.e. companies, and work for two or three years, and then shut down and build a simple trade shop. This must not be allowed, but rather to be strictly guided to remain that waistline. You have to do this, I would suggest even that parliament adopt this programme on privatising the veterinary profession. But the minister isn't here, she's not interested in this law. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-18-0.u20577	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Law in the DRUMS COOPERATION (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments of Rade and Momir Marković on the draft law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Thursday, October 20th, at 10.00pm as a day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you.
