ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11227	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vladan Vukjevic, Milovan Markovic and Ivana Kovacevic; (before noon) Aleksandar Radosavljevic. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Railways (resuming in particular) The amendment was submitted by the MP Miroslav Markicevic to Article 94. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Milovan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 94. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. A representative of the Proposer and the Transport and Connection Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 95. It's a draft law on railways. The article reads "Laws, obligations, resources, employees, documentation and cases in the exercise of public authority of the Community of Yugoslav Railways, established by the Law on Association in the Community of Yugoslav Railways ("SFRJ Official Journal", 18/78 and 30/78), the takeover of the Railways and Public Enterprise "The Railways of Serbia". That's what Article 95 reads. It's a draft law on railways. The Serbian Radical Party has tabled an amendment to delete "The Railway and Railway Directorate" in article 95. In line with the concept of the Serbian Radical Party, we have submitted an amendment, noting that there is no economic justification to form two public enterprises at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With that in mind, we have submitted an amendment to Article 95. So, the concept of the Serbian Radical Party is quite different from the concept submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. Since this is one of the 14 amendments, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, we believe that the National Assembly will vote in favour of amendments to Serbian radicals, given the facts that we cited in the presentations of our MPs in this House and during this session. Repeat, at the level of the railway law, it should cover that there is only one public enterprise and that there is a clear separation between the competences of what the competent ministry is doing and what it is doing to the Public Undertaking of Serbia as the legal successor of the existing Public Enterprise of ZTP Belgrade. With that in mind, the importance of the law to be passed, the Serbian Radical Party and the Serbian Radical Party MP club found a lot of inadequacy in the bill and we tried to explain to the public and the citizens of Serbia that this is one of the key laws that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly. We believe that the laws that have a clear concept, which are precise, need to be passed by this congregation. That is why we have submitted these amendments to the draft law of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We feel that the law is not arranged in the manner in which we live today. As much as the minister in his opening statement, explaining the bill's proposal, said that experts from the Western European Union countries in this area participated, we have made clear that there is no need to form two public undertakings at the level of railways in Serbia, because we believe there is no economic justification and there is no need to increase the number of workers working in the administration. On the other hand, 27,000 workers work on the railway. If we want our railways in the European rail system, we need to manage the economic conditions we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11229	Thank you, Mr. Djordjevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was submitted to Article 96 by Miroslav Markicevic. The government and the Transport and Communications Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 96th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11230	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a few days of debate, we have reached the last amendment to the draft law on railways. Just because it's last doesn't mean it's not important, it's important and it's important whether you accept this amendment or not depends on the fate of this whole law. In fact, I submitted an amendment to article 96 saying "1. Ten. In 2004, they replace "the eighth day since the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This is about the transitional and final provisions of the law which determines the date of entry into force of this law. This amendment is also important because it tells us a few things. It speaks, first of all, of the inconclusive nature of the legislator of this law, i.e. the inconclusiveness of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the bill, while predicting that this law would apply from the day preceding the day of its application. This is directly contrary to Article 120 first. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the law, second regulation or general act enters into force as early as the eighth day since the day of publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier. So, if you wanted to establish the retroactiveness of this law, and I remind you that today is January 24th, so that if the law came into force, as you suggested on January 1, 2005, it would be completely retroactive, and that would further mean that this whole law in the Constitutional Court would fall into the water, and that would further mean that we would have to lose another few days of discussing the same bill again in this National Assembly. It is as if it was not enough for the Government, but in an explanation where my amendment does not accept it is written that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the amendment to Article 96, which was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic and which is defined as the date of entry into force of this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that would also not be a problem if the amendment that is an integral part of the law also did not provide for the law to enter into force on 1 January 2005. In this way you are coming into a situation, although there is no of course our minister of capital who would accept this amendment, to show the true essence of your authority by rejecting this amendment, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia having refused this amendment, and you will be in a situation and you will have to, you would not want, that when the amendments are voted on, you accept this amendment and that the whole law does not fall into your water. Then we, the Serbian radicals, could if we wanted to and we would withdraw this amendment and thus put you in a stalemate situation. Since we as a parliamentary group are first responsible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who elected us to this assembly, we will not do so. I ask that in the future, when it comes to such things that are purely legal, because no one can dispute that the legal solution offered by the SRS parliamentary group is much better than the solutions that you have made in the law and the solutions that you have accepted under the amendment. It was obvious here that you did not accept the amendment just because it was submitted by the MPs of the SRS and that next time you think a little bit better, and that you were a little more responsible for yourself and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that you were not looking at who the amendment was submitted to, but to see what it was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11231	Thank you. Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ). Thank you. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Postal Services (principles) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Nemanja Sarović, Rajko Baralić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Vojislav Milajić, Radiša Ilic, Darko Glišić, Dragan Colić, Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Krasić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Sredo Perić, Milka Silajev, Veroljub Arsić, Branislav Blažić, Stefan Zankov, Boško Ristić, Božidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Momar Marković, Milovan Radovan, Tomislav Penezić, together Milka Silajević and Željko Ivanji, Zoran Antić, Miroslav Nedeljković, Milan Stević, Rodoljubović, Aleksandar Gačević, Aleksandar Žor Djordević, Velimir Štrđivić, Velimir Štović and Miržilić, Miržilić, Mirdić, Mirdić, Miržić, Mirdić, Mirdić. The amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milka Silajev to Article 23, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to Articles 3, 21, 22 and 82 and Velimir Stanojevic to Article 75. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the SRS parliamentary group - one hour, 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS - one hour, three minutes and 36 seconds, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes, 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPO - 26 minutes, 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, three SDP MPs, by five minutes, and on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I am informing you, and I am asking the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. At the same time, I would like to inform you that all MP groups at this point have authorised representatives: SRS Zlatan Jovanovic, DSS Dejan Stojiljković, DS - Boris Tadic Milan Markovic, G17 plus Željko Ivanji, SPO - NS Velimir Stanojevic and SPS Rajko Baralić. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, finally the postal traffic law has come to the agenda. You know that we have long expected this law, that these are the same conditions for our PTT to enter the European postal traffic system. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law are as follows: 1st alignment with European laws in the World Postal Union, as a United Nations body, 2nd law introduces competition in postal traffic through the special liberalisation of postal services markets, where all participants, public postal operator and other postal operators, under certain laws, will provide postal services to users, 3rd all other services, such as courier services, express services, hybrid mail services, represent a commercial service, where public and other postal operators compete on the market for postal services, 4th guarantee to the foreign person to perform economic activity under the conditions laid down by law for domestic persons, and provide for free exchange of goods and services and for the contrary to any act or act which creates or promotes a monopoly or second position. An agency for postal traffic is being formed as an independent regulatory body. It is very important that in postal traffic, and there were the most amendments to this agency, it wants to be an independent regulatory body in Europe, that parties and political options, coalitions that are in power, cannot control a system like PTT traffic in one country, but that it does so by an independent regulatory body chosen by non-party people, which will run a very important segment in the country outside politics, such as postal traffic. It is similar with telecommunications, which you are certainly informed of, that very soon there will be a telecommunications agency that has passed the government as an independent regulatory body. How are members of these agencies elected? On a proposal from certain institutions in the country. For example, a telecommunications agency, similar to in postal traffic, was elected at the Belgrade University, Niski University, Novosad University, the Academy of Science. These are extremely professional people and the condition for these people to be impartial. So, the party leaders can no longer take a very important segment under their own, or party control and tomorrow, after new elections, that everything is changing and adapting again. This is one in a series of laws that simply must be passed in order to get us into the unique PTT system of Europe. You know that system is getting more and more under complete control. The UN also wanted them to come forward, to introduce order and to have no monopoly, to allow officially companies that want to provide certain services, according to the criteria the state sets over its PTT, which it organises in its territory. You have seen these days that we have had many problems and that we have had one anomaly, where the Charter of Kosovo is being violated, that it is approved, Malten, Kosovo to receive its invitation, to fully isolate itself as a whole. Here, we are required to make the law unique. We will try and fight to eliminate it and keep Kosovo in the PTT, as a whole, as a whole system currently in Serbia. Therefore, I invite you to take a close look at this law, to discuss it. Of course, we've been considering the amendments. You saw for yourself, the most amendments were to the agency. We couldn't accept that it wasn't forming, because then the law itself has no purpose whatsoever to exist without the agency as an independent regulatory body. There were few problems with the agency and in telecommunications and in PTT, because political options have always been asked -- where are our people in that and how are we going to vote if our representative is not there. An independent regulatory body does not allow political champions and representatives to influence political parties in a very important segment such as PTT traffic and Telekom. Therefore, I ask you to support this law, so that we can organise ourselves as soon as possible and to introduce a row into PTT. You know there's been a lot of problems in PTT over the past few years, and there's still a problem. It's a matter of seducing order. I'm sure you'll discuss and make remarks. One group put in an amendment that we accepted, so that the salaries at the agency wouldn't be as large as it was proposed. Understand that the directors already have these salaries there and that we couldn't have the director of the agency without the Director General's salary, which is already in PTT or Telekom. That's the problem. We've accepted your amendment, but now the salary of the people who run the agency will be three times lower than those who've been ordered, or the director who's in PTT. I also had a proposal on the Committee to introduce order in public enterprises and put it under the control of the salary of people in charge. Those were the remarks of the MPs. I hope, therefore, that we will adopt this law and that we will nevertheless introduce order into PTT, because PTT has extremely big problems and great difficulties in this period, and it has had a previous one. You know we expect the MUP to clear up some robberies in PTT that were through the Post Office Savings and that the PTT people, unfortunately, were involved. This has caused great damage to both PTT and the Post Office. You know it was a big bond robbery, and it's up to seven million euros, and they organized it by running people in PTT. Some are also arrested, an investigation is under way, but would ask the MUP to speed up this process, so that we can return certain funds and thus introduce order in a very important segment that needs to be controlled by the state in that financial sense. I repeat, there have been many problems, but we hope that the new law will try to solve these problems and that we must all do so together. Thank you for your attention. I expect that we will discuss this amendment and accept very correctly everything that is possible. I say, this basic around the salary we accepted, and this other one couldn't, because these are certain conditions, especially the conditions set by us to keep the law in place. In particular, the SRS has given a lot of amendments to the agency that was created, but this agency is a fundamental thing that must be accepted to come out, I repeat, from segments of party activities in these public enterprises that are important to the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11233	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11234	With an apology that I will begin to get a little further away from the agenda, I would also like to thank all the participants of yesterday's magnificent scientific gathering held at the Sava Center and all the citizens who attended the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a postal service law ahead of us. We just heard a stupid explanation from the minister in charge of postal services. I will try in short lines to give my review and the opinion of the SRS on the proposed law. I must immediately say that it is good that one of these laws has been approached, because the existing Law on Liaison Systems, which included this area, has not been adequately processed, has not precisely defined all the elements of postal services that should be defined and prescribed by law. It's a good thing it's been approached by a law like this, but the SRS disagrees with the concept that's been proposed here. In our presentations, we will present our concepts differently, as we think it should be done. First, I will try to get those who did not read this bill, and I will also point to our public some of the basic elements of this proposal. First of all, I want to say that this bill, which is before us, is actually the result of one, is either a world trend or a tendency established at the Congress of the World Postal Union, which wants to go into demonopolization of postal services. In fact, the tendency in the world is to abolish the monopoly that existed in the area of postal services. The legislator, respecting that tendency, goes that way. In fact, at the Seoul Congress and later in Beijing, the World Postal Federation adopted a strategy to liberalise the postal services market, and this law is the result of this strategy and the goal is to completely liberalise the market, so that the monopoly is completely abolished. As in other countries that have approached the business, the promoter wants to do so gradually, not at once cross-sectionally, but in the next few years there is a full liberalisation of the postal services market. This bill sets out some new categories, which have so far not been known in this area, and the right of them is a universal postal service. This universal postal service, by definition given in the draft law, includes a minimum range of postal services that must be performed continuously in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. This universal postal service will include this range of postal services that must be provided at a certain quality and by, as the proposer suggests, prices that will be affordable to users. This universal postal service includes the basic types of postal services, such as reception, sorting, transfer and delivery of postal shipments, which cover written shipments, up to two kilograms, then 10 kilograms of mailing packages in internal and up to 20 in international traffic, manuals and secograms. This universal postal service singled out a narrow range of postal services called reserved postal services. This narrow range is limited by mass and price, and this is the limit of 350 grams per mass and a five-fold amount of postage at the price and includes written shipments, instructions and all letters in court, administrative and infringement proceedings. That's what they're called. reserved services that stand out from that range of universal postal services. Also, this bill introduces the Republic postal service agency. It's another new agency. We've had them since 2001. The minister said earlier that the agency is a regulatory body that should be independent, which should regulate this area in a certain way. Also, what is new in this proposal are postal service licenses, which include two types of licences, an authorisation for the provision of non-reserved services and a licence for the provision of a universal postal service. These are some of the basic characteristics and elements of this proposal. In short, I will refer to some of them that we as a party have objections and point to these remarks. By amendments, we will explain more in detail all these remarks. First of all, it is unclear, it is the provision of universal postal services and the provision of reserved postal services. Namely, the promoter is aware that an operator who performs a universal postal service, due to the obligation to perform it continuously and on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, in such a way that it can be accessible to any user and at a cost, which will also be accessible to any user, in this way go into loss, that it will not be able to operate positively due to a restriction that has the very definition of universal postal service. It also states explicitly that this universal postal service is provided by a public postal operator, an existing public undertaking, but that this universal service can also be provided by other operators qualified for that license by the competent authority, or by the agency. Since a public operator, as a universal service operator, will not be able to cover its costs of providing a universal service, then reserved postal services, which will be strictly assigned or a monopoly only by a public postal operator, are excluded from the package. From this universal service package there is one smaller package, but a package covering the most common types of services; I have already said, these are written shipments up to 350 grams and up to five times the amount of postage, instructions and all letters in court, administrative and infringement proceedings, and these services are assigned exclusively to a public postal operator. He's the only one who'll have the right to do those services. All services outside of these may also be provided by other operators who, on the basis of permits, qualify for that. I ask the question - is it perhaps a kind of discrimination, if one monopoly is held on the provision of certain types of services and that monopoly is assigned to a public postal operator? Will any legal person who wants to do the job also be able to qualify and perform a certain universal postal service when these services defined as reserved postal services are derived from it? Whether that universal postal service operator will be able to operate positively if it is taken away in advance or if it is prevented from performing those services reserved in the domain by postal services. Here the promoter tried to make some kind of compromise between the demands of the World Postal Congress and the second requirement to survive a public postal operator. Generally observed, I mean... (President: Are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. We in the SRS believe that this way another public system that we had in Serbia, along with energy, along with the railways, came to order and mail, that it too slowly but certainly broke up and disintegrated. The new problem is the postal service agency, and we've already talked a lot about it, there hasn't been a single legal proposal since 2001 without mentioning, or setting up, a new agency. And now, in the postal service law, we have a new postal service agency. I have to say that we have mostly negative experience with these agencies that have been formed so far and I have to look back at my own personal experience that I had with one of the existing agencies. As a citizen, before I became an MP, I was no longer demeaning myself in one of the existing agencies as an MP. Not to talk about those people who were tortured to turn to those agencies, to come to their door, to beg them to solve some of their problems. Not to mention that all these agencies live on exactly the charges cut by Serbian citizens by those dinars that Serbian citizens are creating. Unfortunately, the Privatisation Agency, I have an extremely bad experience, and probably a part of you who are here, not to mention the citizens, the workers who are assigned to that agency. Unfortunately, the agency as well as others live on those same people, from what is obtained by selling their businesses and from the budgets they are also filling. That's why we're skeptical of these law-forming agencies, and we think all these jobs can be done by the competent ministry. After all, all this is well in one of the members of the proposed law, when it is said which are the jobs that the agency will carry out, it is Article 66. The draft law, and all the Agency's jobs are listed, but then finally it is said: the transactions referred to in item 1 point 1) to point 12 of this article, the Agency shall carry out as entrusted transactions. So it's not her original business, it's her department's. Then why the Ministry and the Agency, if the Ministry trusts the Agency. Why isn't the ministry doing them, why isn't he doing them, if he already has, and we know there are enough professional people, trained to do these jobs. Why are we creating only one bureaucratic apparatus that will put more pressure on the economy and citizens of Serbia in this difficult situation? So, earlier, Mr. Minister said that the agency was founded to be an independent body, so that the parties involved in the government could not influence the Agency's work through their own people who would be members of the agency. Again, I call on this bill of law that says nicely that members of the agency's council are proposed by the government, so that they are independent and that the agency as an authority is independent if the government will propose members and, of course, will not propose members who will be opposition to the existing government. They will propose members, although they may not be formal members of the parties in power, who are close to the parties in power, or close to the existing government. I think the story of independence, not only of these agencies, but of previous agencies, is absurd, declassified and pointless. If the government proposes, then it can't be an independent organ. Why did you not leave the possibility for members of the Council to propose the Assembly, or MPs, as authorized promoters. Why did you leave this right to the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Clearly, it is the intention of these members of the Council to be people who will be close to the current government. We also have a big remark, and Mr. Minister made that remark earlier, he said he had already intervened with some amendment to it. It's about receiving members of the Council. It is simply amazing that the proposer proposes that the president of the Postage Services Agency's Council will receive 10 average salaries per employee in the Republic of Serbia. It's just amazing that a member of the agency, a member of the Agency's Council, has eight average salaries. Gentlemen, are you aware of the situation Serbia is in? Now, the minister says that at this point the directors of this public company that deals with postal services already have these salaries. Why, gentlemen, have you not reacted, but you've already been in power for ten or 11 months, to have you paid by the director, the executives in public enterprises brought into some reasonable frameworks? Says the minister, it is not logical that the director of a public enterprise has a higher salary than the chairman of a council appointed by the director. It is not logical that the director, or president of the council, has a higher salary than the prime minister, and the government proposes members of the council. It is not logical that the prime minister and members of the government have more salaries than MPs, and MPs choose the government. Please, you are the one who exercises power. Come on, get the order in public enterprises. Four years ago, we talked here about a law that was supposed to do so, so the law excludes public enterprises, so it's said to be done afterwards. Nothing's been done for four years. We're back to square one. Governments change, public enterprises remain, states in the state, and public enterprises operate according to their own. When will someone get the strength to introduce that order into public enterprises? It doesn't make sense that it stands here when it comes to a public postal service operator that if he stayed this way, if he didn't go into liberalization of that market, that this operator would have a growing profit. It doesn't make sense, and that's just saying that government and government have no ability and mechanisms to seduce order in public enterprises. Why would the profits of a public enterprise, which would exist and live on these principles that exist today and live, why would its profits be reduced in the future. Simply, the explanation is that there are no mechanisms for the government to seduce order. Finally, another question that is very interesting, which is the question of compensation, and this law proposes, compensation that postal service operators must pay to the agency. If you take into account that each postal service operator has to make 0.5% of its revenues to the annual agency on behalf of the postal service fee, then you understand where this money will be paid for the work of the advice and other employees of the agency. So anyone who deals with postal services will have to take one part of his income every year and pay the agency; and for what, for nothing. So, in order for the agency to live, and the funds allocated to the agency will otherwise be replaced by a postal operator from the citizens, prices will have to be higher in order to settle that cost. The SRS has expressed its reserve under this law through 40 amendments that will be here in the debate and we will discuss all these amendments in more detail about certain things, but I think in general that this law is not good, that we should consider accepting many of our amendments that are heading towards improving the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11235	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11236	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, is before us the Law on Postal Services, a long-awaited law in this assembly, which is the fluids and working groups and fluids of the tenacity of those people who are with the mail and in the mail of all these years, and also in the competent ministry, and I am grateful for that tenacity that has shown that this law is on the agenda. When we talk about the mail law, we can split the whole story into two parts. One is this formal legal part of the law itself, and the other is essentially, mail itself as a public operator. The new law affects deregulation, liberalisation and privatisation most. So these are three segments of this legislative framework and future modern mail and other operators. The objectives of the legislative reform are seen through the demonopolisation of the postal services market, so there are no more monopolys in the postal services market, the separation of the functions of regulators from operators, where the same market conditions will be set for all, the transformation of a traditional operator, which implies the formation of a special company, Poste Serbia, in the form of a society that will be established by the government of the Republic of Serbia. All this leads to a special improvement in quality that will be absolutely and certainly in the service of the user. This law introduces competition in postal traffic. It provides universal postal service, improves the quality of postal services in accordance with the standards of Europe and the world and allows postal operators to perform services on equal terms in accordance with the requirements and needs of users. Therefore, users represent the basic parameter and what defines mail and postal operators to be at the service of the user. The government determines the policy and development strategy in the postal service area, which is very important and the competent ministry must know, and it takes measures, both in terms of the postal service development strategy and in terms of telecommunications services. The ministry is operating on government policy and overseeing law enforcement. The Republic postal service agency shall regulate relations on the postal services market in accordance with the law and the inspector for postal services shall take and propose preventive measures to prevent infringements of the rules. As far as this service is concerned, I think she's doing a very good job today. This law is in line with the primary law of the European Union and the secondary legislation of the European Union, the postal services development directive and other directives and decisions of the European Union and is in line with the acts of the World Postal Union and other international acts and agreements. That would be the formal legal part of the law itself. As far as the core work is concerned, it is certain that all postal administrations in the world must experience their transformation and must transform into independent entities, with precise legal status, financial independence and the ability to adapt to the market and needs of users in conditions of growing competition. When we talk about monopolies at a level of two very important segments, which is a segment of telecommunications and a segment of postal services, we have to relativize the concept of monopoly itself. In the postal alliance, a monopoly can only be understood conditionally. The word "monopol" hides the absolute need and inevitability that states face that all postal services, especially those for which no postal operator has the economic justification to provide, are provided in any way by mail as a future public postal operator. So either by bicycle, by motorcycle, by foot or by horse, as you are now delivering shipments in some parts. So, the mailman will always have to go out on the field and always have to deliver that shipment. They'll do that in some village under the middle of Golia, so equally, even where he doesn't have an economic interest. In such conditions the post office is defined and will have to deal with the loss in a large number of non-performing mails, and on the other hand the service must provide, even if there is one single letter. The law excludes the part that allowed the post office to be compensated by the state for providing the services it must provide for the loss. Otherwise, when we talk about covering losses, usually in the countries of the European Union, because in this case it cannot be said that it is the financing of mail by taxpayers, but a social consensus that we all together help the operator to be, for the benefit of the whole state, provided on every territory of this country, whether it is profitable for mail or not. What is certain, the post office will continue to function and it will function impeccably and without the budget dinars or in some other way by the state, because there is that consensus in the Post-Serbia that I was just talking about. Serbia's post office is the service of all its citizens and mailmen always adorned what others did not have. It's those people who represent us more than the neighbor herself, and less than the next of kin. These are the people who simply deliver these shipments, either we look forward to them or we grieve with them. The post office will help the state in any way to ensure that the service is provided in the interest of the state in every territory of the country itself. When we talk about companies in which mail is owned by shares or shares, counting on Telekom and Mobtel, we remember the sale of Telekom in 1997, when one of the irrational logic is completely irrational, one part sold entirely unfavourable for the Post office of Serbia and for the state itself. This was rational from the point of view of the pensions at the time, but the Telekom problem was that of the Post Office of Serbia as the majority shareholder in Telekom himself dragged to these days. Of course, in a buyout by Italian stockholder Post also bought those actions. So it wasn't the state that bought the shares but the Post Office of Serbia and it is obliged to repay the funds from paying off those shares to shareholders from which the shares were bought. So that means not the state back, but the mail itself, and that burdened the operation of the mail. In this system and in this country, mail is very difficult to operate, but it still operates with income despite this burden. Fortunately, with a successful business policy and thanks to the resolute minister, we managed to charge the dividend from Telekom Srbija and to get Serbia's Post office to move forward with the dividend in further development, as well as new services and a series of projects that are now being implemented by the post office. We remember the formation of Mobtel, in which PTT was allocated 49% of the capital, and that, as we heard from the Commission itself, the government commission in Mobtel, there is at least 58%. So, the post office was assigned, but the post office didn't absolutely affect the purchase of that share, or the formation of a special company. So far, the post office has also not received any money from Mobtel's profits. So there's no profit allocated, there's no profit in the mail, and if it's going to make it happen, we'll see. Should I point out that according to the tax administration's findings, Mobtel is transferring millions of euros to the company's accounts in the BK system. Huge funds are being paid in the name of young artists' fee, which of course would never be bad if it were not for the next of kinsmen of the great Serbian boss, at the expense of young artists who sing Serbia. I guess they're singing about it to buy themselves out and wash off what they've been doing, based on whose foundation they've built a company. The initial accumulation of capital in Serbia took place according to the bar scenario. In Serbia, I am free to say, tycoons and anti-hearists, because at least in Russia tycoons pay big stars to sing to them for big fees. Let's see who leads the constant fight against the financial lobbies and tycoons who consider themselves to be famous hosts in Serbia, who built their empire on the coat of arms of our people. Does anyone else fight those tycoons besides G17 plus? Has anyone else publicly said anything related to the great guru empire that considers himself famous and that in some newspapers, which we have all been pleased to read, declares that the flag has come to this world. I guess that's why he's considered famous. By establishing Mobtel, in which the post office is theoretically 49% to 58%, which is a commission matter, and its profit has not yet been allocated, it is invested in the development of the company and we can call it free – the development of the family. Should I point out that the post office has 18,000 employees and feeds just as many families, and that mail needs to be renovated, buy uniforms for employees, improve conditions for employee work? It is certain that the mail system is facing challenges that, freely speaking, mail management is courageously entering and showing results after half a year of work. The statute authorities of Telekom Srbija have started to function, a new PTT organisation, which is ready for the restructuring process, signed a new collective contract, a single-stop catalogue of Serbia's mail services, and simply with that catalogue and united services is headed towards users. Therefore, it is simple to establish market business and post office is being prepared for the market. In view of the willingness of mail as a future public operator to engage in a competition with other potential operators, it is necessary to ensure equal conditions for all. What does that mean? It implies that a series of laws should be adopted in this House which will allow for the same conditions for all. One of these laws is the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity of general interest, the Law on Funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia, too, the Law on Public Procurement. If you want to go evenly to the market and to provide certain services, you do not have to go to a tender for the purchase of envelopes under that amended law, such as at this point neither DHL nor TNT. That slows the procurement process for the mail itself. When we talk about the justification and legal validity of certain provisions of this law, I would also say a few things. Some will not understand, Serbia exists much more than themselves. The beginnings of the postal system itself, the establishment of Serbia's mail, date back to 1811, and the first Royal Post office was formed on June 7th 1840. In 1843, the post office was governed by the law, and in 1866 the first postal service law was passed, which was regulated, in addition to providing regular services, and printing of postage stamps, setting up mailboxes, introducing collegiate traffic and reducing tariffs for written and amannettical shipments. With certain amendments, this law was valid until 1918. So it's been valid for 50 years. It was Serbia, Serbia in the right sense of the word, Serbia which was an equal member of all international institutions, Serbia that kept to its laws. In 1874, in Bern, along with 21 countries, Serbia became the founder of the World Post Federation. So Serbia is one of the founders of the World Postal Union. And that was Serbia. Serbia was also a member of international institutions then and formed international institutions. As a member of the World Postal Union, this country must adhere to the conclusions and acts of the World Postal Union and the Directives of the European Union, which provide for the establishment of an independent regulatory body, which is the Agency. If the Ministry assumes the function of an independent regulatory body, the postal service agencies could simply step up the monopolitical position of an operator owned by a state compared to other operators that are not, which would be contrary to the liberalisation of the postal service market. The state won't have any monopolies. The state wants a free market. Serbia's mail has nothing against demonopolisation. Serbia's mail will enter the perspective and the privatisation process. Serbia's post office is ready for the market and will attack the market with its services. Those equal market conditions with the other operators will be what the post office wants. The post office wants clearly defined legal frameworks for its work, clearly defined ownership relations in its companies where it is the founder or co-founder, and wants to remain an institution that represents, therefore, what is the symbol of every city or every village in our Serbia. So both villages and cities in Serbia are recognised, alongside the church, police station, and by post. As for the current situation and the results for the first six months in the business of Post office of Serbia, there was a growth in the volume of services, service revenues increased by 15%. Over a year, the result of business improved by 772 million dinars. So, the post office was never on the back of the state. The post office itself has survived and survives today in Serbia. The level of debt found in the Post Office of Serbia has been reduced by 16.711.631 euros. The cost of interest on loans has been significantly reduced. Much greater internal efficiency has been achieved, job cuts have been achieved, assistant director's jobs have been abolished, the number of directors by seven, sectors by 14 and independent sectors by one. When you streamline these sectors and directorates in the Post Office of Serbia, then you come up with a home business. The product of reducing the number of directories in the Post Office of Serbia has led to an increase in wages, which is not more than 20%. The Director-General of Post Office of Serbia has a lower salary than the president of the agency, according to the projected model, which we received from the ministry. What is very important is that the Director-General's salary is determined by the Management Board of Enterprises. So, the corporate board of directors makes a decision on the Director-General's salary, which, I recall, is much less than 10 average salaries. The ptt traffic management board of Serbia's companies makes up all political parties on our political scene, i.e. those parties that make up power, which are run by the Post of Serbia. They made a decision on the Director-General's salary. Telecom dividends were also made for 2003. A number of important jobs for PTT have been completed. The first and second phases of the KDS were agreed. Also, senders tracking projects have been completed, so that at any moment we can know where the shipment is, in order to reduce the percentage of the slaves' shipments, then the translation project of the address into the address code, which has been declared a donation by the World Post Federation. So we're not going to go with our own resources into this project - the geographical and information system. Projects in preparation are projects of the main post office, mass personalised press, e-mail counter, e-mail stamps and a multi-service corporate network. With these projects implemented and in preparation, Serbia's Post Office will certainly, to the satisfaction of users of services, with full respect for consumer rights protection, be the operator who will provide Serbia with the best services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11237	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11238	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Socialist Party of Serbia will support the Law on Post Office Services, although the sincere design of the law is a matter of concept. It is not close to me that one of the most state-owned institutions, such as the mail, such as the railway, is legally executed, as it is said here, at a competition. I mean, my colleague Ivanji was already talking about how the mail was made, from the first mensulane to today. What's important to the citizens of one country? That in one village, for example, in Bezovice at Chačka, a letter can come even though it goes once a month, or that one from Bezovica can send a letter once in ten years, but that someone will take it, hand it over, and that it will arrive at the appropriate address. Such a job is the only quality and responsibility that anyone who is directly controlled by the state can do. The law provides for deregulation and demonopolization. It's an emergency, we understand that. By 2009, the post office as we know it will no longer exist. Fair liberalisation – we have experience with fair privatisation, which has practically devastated Serbia – does not exist. The concept of absolute liberalisation absolutely implies that the state is not needed in any area in one society. When you have absolute liberalisation in all segments, when the market regulates everything, then the state has no significant function. We may have gone back to deetatization, in one period when it was a bio-proclaimed political and ideological goal. There must be an area and that the state has instruments to regulate those issues and those relations that cannot be regulated otherwise, except that the state takes responsibility for its citizens. That is why it is a universal postal service, because every citizen in this country has certain rights, needs and must have the necessary level of guarantee that these rights and needs will satisfy in a quality way. It does not start from today by adapting the work to international standards and regulations, since the post office has been working in such a way that what it does, first of all, in international postal traffic, and also in the interior, is adapted to different conventions, standards that exist today and have always existed everywhere in the world. The post office is a national status symbol. She's almost a state alone. So very carefully, we should carefully approach all these questions and not have a great operation in 2009 and that the patient whose name is the post office is deceased. It would be important to follow, because from today to 2009, this principle of liberalisation goes by reducing the weight of the senders, or the price of the senders, where we are practically showing respect to a competition which it objectively cannot withstand unless the state helps. Why is it so, we can talk about it, but sometimes the post office itself was guilty of why it failed to position itself in this previous time in a better way on what would be the market. I will give an example that is well known, from Cačka to Belgrade every day has 15 departures per hour, except for passengers, buses and auto transports of at least 100 valuable shipments, packages, bags of food, with a change of clothes. Everyone who has students, that's how we educate our children. There was not enough hearing, there wasn't enough courage for someone in the cities of this size to organize mail and to do the same thing in that way, and it has a guarantee and gives a guarantee that it will just get where it's meant to be. The advantage of this quasi-postal service is that in three hours someone from Cačka in Belgrade is waiting for his bag, his medicine, his letter, his training, etc. So no one was defending anyone. There's fast mail, there's a whole series of things that have been done, but we haven't been able to adequately respond to this need. About 5.5 thousand students from Cačka are currently in Belgrade and 5.5,000 of them at least two or three in one month have this need that I'm talking about here today. I'd like to comment on a few more questions, so in a sense, I'd like to talk to my colleague Ivanji about privatising and selling Telecom. Of course, the point is the aspect of who is looking at this problem. I can agree that a billion and a half marks of funds received from this job are not spent most effectively. I remind you, all in Serbia in a thousand privatisations, under the law passed after the DOS came to power, was sold for less than a billion. Besides, those who bought it say, we don't need it anymore, we did a bad job, so we offer you discount to buy your shares. That would be the same if the tobacco industry today had a discounted offer to take the action back. So it's a matter of judgment. Why is it that, and I agree with Mr Ivanji, today allows one man and one family to function in Serbia in this way, and you do not want to mention her last name, it is the Karics. There's a question for some others, some others have promised to regulate it. The extraprofit law was supposed to regulate that. One election campaign promised to regulate it, and it did not regulate it. Every day he gives us moral sermons, talks about Orthodoxy, about sanctification, about charity, about all kinds of other things with our money. That is why a force is necessary, coordination is necessary in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to call everything the right name and to prevent the daughters of the company in the "Mobtel" from practically doing something that is completely contrary to the law and to prevent the enormous profits of members of a family. And in doing so, all the other things that are necessary and to establish a board of directors at the "Mobtel" that will reflect the property structure, and then everything else goes in that direction that we all objectively want and expect. On behalf of the SPS, and thanks to my colleagues from the post office, I have submitted four amendments, which the government has accepted and I thank you for. A colleague, Zarko Obradovic, submitted this famous amendment concerning the earnings of members of the postal traffic agency and its president. I have to say, it was a principled remark. We understand what Mr. Minister was talking about and it's impossible that, with the level of salary of the board of directors of the post office, the people who need to control them have less profits. It's a principle question for us. Should the National Assembly, the one who gives consent to various appointments and appointments, accept in the future that all those whom it appoints, appoints or proposes are paid more than the MPs themselves, and I do not think that the salaries of the MPs are low. It's a matter of principle, and we need to agree on that and make a deal. I think it's possible to regulate it in several ways. Of course, it's a matter of choice. If anyone doesn't want to, he always has a choice. He doesn't have to be an MP or a member of the postal service agency, he can do something else unless he's satisfied that this thing is regulated by payment. Just a few more things that are very important to us, as a parliamentary group of SPS. This postal service law, as well as the law on rail transport, as well as the energy law, did not define the property of these companies. We think it's ugly, although the reason for the law says that the government will regulate it by regulation and that mail will be a shareholder society, etc. It would be logical for us to define it by law. The mail is state-owned, if for nothing else, and for this monopoly that some are criticizing. So, it was created on the basis of entrusted transactions by a single-state monopolies, and that's why the state has, it would have room to regulate the status of property. The property of the post office is huge, and even that property you claim sold to a Greek operator has not been sold. These operators bought the right not to exploit telecommunications, and they didn't buy any square meters, not one meter of wire or cable, not one relay. They bought the right to exploit the telecommunications system for a certain period, as much as each of them invested. The post office owns all the assets, this people owns that property. It would be logical to regulate it by this law or by some other act, without it being a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but should come before the MPs, because the mail is in the least local community, to this large stone house, which we are all very proud of. So it's a huge property. The Post-Serbian fleet today is so big that it could cover one year's Zastava production from some happy years, which you claimed were not. One more thing, the post office has that property that's not strictly functional. It's a social standard property, that's what it used to be called. And here, as with the railroad, I ask that we treat it with caution. We'll get rid of it easily. However, I would like to say that there are duties, such as the House of Vacation in Vranjska Banja. It's a legislation, gentlemen, and it can't be sold. There are a whole range of other facilities, there are properties in Montenegro. There we have, too, something that used to build mail. So, to make sure that people don't lose it, when I say people, I mean all the employees of PTT, because not everyone in PTT is an engineer. It's a huge number of mailmen, a huge number of people with lower qualifications. What I'm trying to say here is, there's a special category of people in the post office, and they're counter-workers. There are people here who are psychologists, who work in the profession and know when someone needs to spend 35 years on the counter, who is constantly exposed to the court of the public, who works all the time with money, who is constantly exposed to people who are in a hurry, who are often unhappy, when you have to be completely precise, when you have to be constantly kind. That's one hell of a stress. These people deserve, in addition to a decent salary, to have ways to rest, at least once in one year, under the elemental benefits of conditions. So, I'm telling you the truth, 'cause every single one of us was on the counter once, and we're all often, we know what kind of business it is. It's a job where there can be no shortage, in which you must always have a smile, in which you must always have an understanding, in which you must not be late, where the break is strictly prescribed, where the uniform is prescribed. So it doesn't matter to do such jobs and other jobs. It's important that we understand these people too, to ensure that they have this elemental protection and that they can rest in the buildings that the Post has built. In the end, Mr. Minister, I speak to you personally. Cačak had a chance many years ago to be Minister of Post, which was Mr. Vojko Cvrkic. When he was a minister, that city got a magnificent building. It's your turn to do the same. You've got a few more years ahead of you. That's what the Chacans expect of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11239	The word is by MP Dejan Stojljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the DSS MPs will vote in favour of the Post Office Bill. What is the essence of this law, which we heard from Mr. Minister, is that it introduces competition in postal traffic and, in practice, enables the gradual liberalisation of the postal market. The introduction of competition to citizens as a result should provide better and cheaper services, as well as a whole series of better services that modern technologies can provide today. This was also the goal that other countries, among other things, and some of the countries in the environment, had when adopting their legal solutions. How we could read in the explanation, this bill was drawn up and the experiences and solutions of these countries were used, as well as the recommendations of the World Postal Union and the European Union Directive. Why is this important? Because in many areas, as well as in this region, Serbia has been in line for many years and how it has taken place with developed countries. From my fellow MP, Mr Ivanji, we've already been able to hear some of the information that confirms it. And I made some of them. We could hear a lot more interesting data, but I think what we've heard is enough to conclude that it's our country and how it's followed the world's and European trends in the development of postal services. In over 160 years of existence, the Post Office in Serbia has become one of the largest public enterprises. It provides citizens with a wide range of services: receiving and sending e-mails, letters, goods, money, etc. and all over Serbia's territory. She is co-owner or founder of other businesses, such as Telekom Srbija, Mobtel Serbia, Post Office, etc. In addition to these, let me say, classic services, the Post Office also offers some services that fall within the area of modern systems, such as Internet dating, such as cable-distributive systems etc. All in all, it is obvious that it is a large and complex system which is overly necessary for citizens and our country and which has a very strong tradition. However, in order to allow for the further development of postal services in our country, it is necessary to regulate this area legally, so as to ensure easier and closer co-operation with similar countries' systems in the environment and European Union countries. This is also to be done because it will enable foreign capital to be invested in this system, which has not been the case until now, because of the impasse in the restructuring of this system. What is it that makes this law a significant paper, and why will the DSS parliamentary group vote in favour of this law? It is a partial and gradual elimination of monopoly in this area, but along with a mechanism that ensures that the Post Office in Serbia is transformed into a modern company capable of holding elections for the leading post office and providing, at the same time, that our citizens do not come into a situation to be denied for any of these services, anywhere in Serbia to live. By law, we have heard here several times, defining the universal postal service, as a minimum set of services that, under the same conditions, prescribed quality and affordable prices, are performed on the territory of all Serbia. We have already heard from Mr. Jovanovic, one of the previous speakers, what services it is. Public postal operators and other operators must provide, in practice, a network to provide these services, which will cover the entire territory of Serbia, as well as obtain a special permit. a license to perform these tasks. All postal operators can do other services, but now it's about services where they practically compete with each other on the market. The competition would eventually have to improve the quality of these services, as well as lower prices. What is guaranteed to a public postal operator, it is a monopoly performance of so-called reserved services. These are the services most commonly used in the postal system and these services should provide a secure source of income for a public postal operator, which is in this case the Post Office of Serbia. This solution should allow these services to be and must be done throughout the territory, as it is certain that they are not the same conditions and are not the same income in large urban areas and in small rural, often poor environments. If it wasn't for this kind of solution, the question would be whether any operator would find an interest in providing postal services in the sparsely populated environments. On the other hand, of course, it must not be allowed for citizens living in these small environments to be deprived of this service because of their inability. That's why we think this solution is good and necessary. This monopoly law, we've heard more than once, should be phased out and finally be abolished by 2009, when the Post should be held with its quality and wide range of its services, I said already, elections for a leaderial position on the market. All operators compete on the so-called market. non-reserved services and for this it is necessary to obtain an appropriate permit, i.e. approval. Both types of permits are granted by a new independent regulatory body, which is the agency for the postal services of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues from the DSS parliamentary group will probably talk after me about some other issues and good solutions related to this bill. It remains for me to conclude that these laws regulate the harmonisation of our legislation with EU laws, the possibility of improving and expanding postal services through the creation of competition, while at the same time making these services cheaper. This law creates conditions for new foreign investment and strategic integration with other countries' partners, especially I think of companies dealing with the same work that have technological knowledge and potentials, which will become an interesting market in Serbia. Of course, changes, especially positive ones, can't happen overnight, and it's our duty to start it and as a state to create all necessary conditions. This law is in that function and on behalf of the DSS, I call on Members to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11241	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, Velimir Stanojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11242	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we finally have before us a bill on postal services, which has been waiting since September 2003. This law, the first impression, aims to transform postal administrations into independent entities that will also be legally independent, but primarily financially stable and able to adapt to the market in conditions. But what matters most to me is to adapt to the needs of direct users. The fact is that by 2009, a monopoly in the postal services sector, such as this in telecommunications, should be abolished, and it is during this period that the reform of the PTT system should be implemented. This is one of the conditions for mail, as a public operator, to prepare for competition in the growing market in this area. It is certain that in the making of this law the experiences of the EU countries have been used, as well as the countries in transition, and certainly those solutions have been useful in finding legal solutions, but I am sure that through the proposal of this law, but also that through the accompanying legal and sublegal acts, they will take into account the specificity of our PTT system, which, above all, is a difficult situation in which this system is currently in place. If real and structural changes are wanted to lead to the desired results, and I am sure that it is wanted, certain preparatory actions should be carried out, in particular as regards employees in this system, but also the complete system for upcoming changes. It is certain that this initial change in the legal status of mail is a prerequisite for the post becoming a modern company. The fact is that through the gradual liberalisation of the market in the postal services sector competition will be introduced, where public postal operators and other operators will also, according to legally established criteria, perform their services to users. The most important thing is that this law provides universal postal service at uniform prices to the population, and through the widespread national postal network and, I am sure, it will also provide maximum quality of postal services. What is very important encourages competition and thus initiates further development in the postal service system. When it comes to universal postal service, postal operators of universal service are obliged to ensure that a minimum set of these services is carried out at even prices throughout the territory of the Republic. This universal postal service can also be provided by public operators, in the current situation it is the Public Enterprise PTT Serbia and other postal operators who get the appropriate license. In this second part of reserved services, and in order to ensure the continued provision of universal service, the public operator, PTT Serbia, will have the exclusive right to receive, transfer and deliver written shipments according to the criteria provided for by the proposal for ovzakon, as well as the receipt, transmission and payment of instructions in classical or electronic form. Of course, in a part outside of reserved services, a public operator and private companies compete for both price and quality on the free market. As far as licenses are concerned, it is also clear by law that they can be issued both to foreign and domestic and legal persons, and here we have two types of permits, as proposed by this law. This is an authorisation for the provision of unreserved postal services and a licence for the provision of universal postal service. What is the reason why, according to us from the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group, we should vote in favour of this bill? In addition to all of this, the adoption of this law provides that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in parallel with this law, access to the establishment of Serbia's mail as a company that organises the existing Public Enterprise PTT Serbia as a public postal operator, I am sure on a completely new and modern basis. The second reason, at the beginning, I said, is that this law is being passed for almost two years, and this has led to serious consequences for PTT Serbia's Public Enterprise and the emergence of unfair competition in the area of postal traffic in Serbia. Finally, the lagging behind in restructuring this public enterprise, as well as the overall postal transport system in Serbia, has already led to some incompatibility with the countries in the environment, but also with EU countries, and one of the consequences is that there was no foreign capital investment in this area. These are all the reasons why I call on all MPs to vote in favour of the bill, and the SPO-New Serbia parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11243	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? The mandated representative of the DS, MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11244	Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected People's Ministers, for DS in principle, this law is acceptable and it is quite understandable, because the draft of this law was essentially created during 2003, that is, at the time of Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic's government. True, this is one of the many laws that have been prepared at the time, which the current government puts into practice and we think it's not bad because it basically contains solutions and a reform idea that is a unique DS. Some of these laws have been amended in the meantime, in our opinion worse, and some good ideas in some new laws have been compromised by bad legal texts. However, we think that the law that you have presented here today is a law that we can vote for, stick to a good idea and the very idea of demonopolization and a modern structure of this area fully respects. The basic solutions of this law are aimed at modern standards and solutions of the European Community. Demonopolisation of postal conditions, which was partially de facto achieved in practice, e.g. By entering our market for multinational postal goods transporters such as DHL, this demonopolisation needs to transform these services from services to services provided to citizens by the state to services provided on market principles, faster, more efficient, cheaper and more reliable. It is a path that has crossed and crossed all countries of the world that are taking over the market economy and development. Of course, the opening of the market must not and cannot be anarchical in such a traditional, important segment of services, and therefore the role of the future regulatory body provided for by this law is particularly important. We think that such a regulation body should exist and that we simply can't talk in principle about the existence of an agency, of a regulation body, as something that prioritizes negative. In fact, practice, both parallel and with us, shows that such regulatory bodies should exist because they provide both efficiency and independence in doing business. The rules of play that will establish this body through its practice will also be decisive for the status of today's PTT Public Enterprise and other participants in the postal services market. That this is not always easy to show the experiences of neighbouring countries, where there are sharp disputes between mail and private distribution companies. In this regard, it should be pointed out that this law is also the basis for urgent access to the restructuring of one of the major systems, which is JP PTT, and there is the greatest responsibility in the government, as a representative of the sole owner. PTT must be transformed into a market-oriented, well-organised and efficient organisation. How sensitive that task is indicates enough that more than 15,000 people are working in this system today. However, circumstances, and particularly certain government moves, do not go hand in hand. In the mail world, they reformed by taking over, primarily thanks to their developed infrastructure, a number of profitable jobs, especially in the area of so-called small banking businesses. The conditions for this in Serbia will be significantly difficult. Not only has the Post Office become a special banking organisation, but by taking over a competing PDO network it has been created by a state or parts of it, a competitive organisation, a majority private property, and it is called the National Savings Office. You'll admit that this absurd thing needs to be heard again, so it's private, and it has a national name. In Serbia at all, PTT is a nominal rich man who has a hard time surviving today. In any case, the opening of the market is inevitable, as is the restructuring of the PTT, and therefore we generally support this law, because we think it gives a good basis for this to happen. Of course, that doesn't mean we don't have a certain number of objections, we've given in and out of the amendments, and we'll give in the debate in particular. Unfortunately, the government, as usual, rejects anything that comes from the DS and the Priors, without entering into the essence of these remarks, even if they were also extremely banal and referred to technical corrections or grammatical errors in the text. When it comes to the regulatory body, we have two questions. First, has his choice been well set, and does this way of choosing provide independence? As already mentioned here, Article 66 provides for the agency’s tasks, and it is said that the transactions referred to in points (1) to (2) of Article 1 to (2) of this article are carried out by the agency as entrusted tasks. I have to admit, I don't understand why these jobs are classified as confidential. The second question is whether, if it performs these tasks as entrusted tasks, it can achieve independence from the ministry, or from the government that trusts those tasks to the agency. It is further disputed, when we talk about the independence of this body, the choice of members of the council. The law states: "The government determines on the basis of the application submitted by the Ministry, the relevant scientific institutions, as well as registered postal operator associations and/or users". I think greater democracy and certainly better independence would be achieved if MP groups suggested it, but good. However, I must say that, when it comes to independence, there is a dilemma that is simply the product of our experience with this government and with this ruling majority, and probably the body, which had to be to the greatest extent independent, has turned out to be dependent and to this extent subject to pressure that the president of that body has finally fainted from that pressure. Of course, it's about the Securities Commission, so independence isn't enough just to establish a declaration in the law, unless there's a political will to actually carry out that independence, and that really we as a society are simply changing in that direction and that we don't look all the way through the prism of the interests of political parties. If that doesn't exist, then we're free of whatever the normative regulation is. As far as the president's salary is concerned, there is indeed a certain dilemma. Unfortunately, it is some dilemma that is generally followed by both this and the previous government, and the previous government, where we have such an absurd, one contradiction, that you will list thousands and thousands of different officials in this country, the various directors of public enterprises who have far higher salaries than the salaries and MPs, both the Prime Minister and the President of the State. I think there is almost no director of a public enterprise in Serbia who has no higher salary than the President of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is a kind of absurd, and I hope that by common consent, we will resolve it, because a little bit of the state seems messy and upside down, if someone would look at our structure at all, our systematization in the state administration. I have another remark, which is on Article 72 – the government gives consent to the statute of the agency. I don't think it would be questionable if the National Assembly gave consent to the agency's statutes, and I think that this remark could be respected, and if not, my God, we as an opposition parliamentary group, it's normal to have certain objections and to have fundamental and conceptual disagreements with the ruling majority, so they're sometimes larger, sometimes smaller. In this law, however, they are to this extent, so to speak, that it is possible to tolerate them, and yet we will accept this law in principle. The other thing that's worrying is that, if I'm not mistaken, this government hasn't established a functioning function in the past year, so I'm not familiar with the functioning of a single regulatory body or an independent commission. This can be referred, quite frankly, to the conclusion, therefore, I would not like to be maliced, especially not to your ministry to some extent more seriously, but it could be concluded that the government is holding back on itself the possibility that in some way, without responsibility, it regulates the market, which, I must admit, is a little bit and contradictory, given the market definition of both these governments and the previous governments, and in general the market commitment of our society after 2000. On the other hand, it can come to the fact that certain changes and additions of powers and obligations are being transferred to the National Bank and this ingenuity, which I hope you agree, is already too much, given that the National Bank in Serbia is probably dealing with what no bank in the world would be dealing with. Well, we had an insurance debate here, when we found that there are only two countries in the world that have that jurisdiction, and one of them, I wouldn't know a name to say, some country in Asia, and the other one is somewhere in Africa, and that's all, although Minister Dinkic tried to explain to us that it wasn't. One less question remains whether the fate of the existing PTT community has been optimally solved. In Article 66, we also have points 12) and 14) in point 1, but we will explain this in the part of the debate in particular through the amendments tabled by our colleague Bosko Ristic. I conclude, the DS will vote in favour of this law in principle, but we urge you to make sure that in the formation of a regulatory body, or this agency, or councils, you are objective, impartial, without interference with political interests, and to make sure that you live up to the provisions of this law, or that we do not come into a situation like other regulatory bodies, that they have not come into life, and here it has already been six months more than the day that the National Assembly voted them out with concrete legislative proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11245	Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups, I would like to inform you that representatives of the three parliamentary groups, the SRS, the DSS and the G17 plus have applied for the word. I call, first has the word of the People's Messenger Milka Silaev, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Djordjevic be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11246	The Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister, as is known, has seen major changes in Europe as far as major systems are concerned. The European Union has asked for deregulation and liberalisation of large systems. This would normally have to cover the areas of postal traffic. It was imposed as necessary. One curiosity was present in the European Union, that the German post office had long resisted liberalisation and even Germany had to pay the penalty to the European Union for not doing so on time. As you know, the transformation of postal administrations into independent entities, with precisely defined legal status, financial independence, and all with the aim of adapting to the market and the needs of users in conditions of growing competition. Thus, the right of monopoly in telecommunications was abolished in 1998, and the right of monopoly in postal traffic will be detained by 2009. It is a right that will use countries in transition to adapt to this process, which is not easy at all and which will be painful for workers of all major systems, but fortunately it is known that these problems will be solved, by making social programmes for workers and thus solving their problems. Therefore, in this period, a monopoly on postal traffic should be abolished, structural reform of the entire PTT system should be implemented. What's symptomatic of us as a country, we haven't acted as an environment country. In the '90s, countries in the environment passed a law on the separation of mail from telecommunications. We didn't do it. In 2002, the Telecommunications Act was passed, we are now passing a postal law, I am sure we will pass it, but no law has been passed on to separate from each other, and during this period the laws of the past period continued to rule. It's the Law on the system of connections, and it's not defined and strictly defined, so it's caused a lot of problems. Since mail is an internationally homogeneous part of an integrated world postal network, it is normal to adopt a postal law. The reason for the adoption of this law is that the existing Law on Liaison Systems, which covers both the area and the mail and telecommunications, is conceptly abandoned as unsustainable and with the adoption of the Telecommunications Act, is normally necessary. The strategy for the development of postal traffic, I hope it will be adopted very quickly, must be directed towards market requirements and also towards resolving the status of postal administrations. We have the Yugoslav Post Office and its status must be resolved. In the 1990s, the World Postal Council was held in Washington and it was concluded that mail must develop as an independent and commercial activity. In 1994, a directive was adopted in Seoul which was particularly dedicated to the introduction of competition on the postal services market. Mail and telecommunications must be freed from state influence. If structural changes are to be sought, which will lead to the result of being able to compete with the post office, precise planning of the change system should be carried out, as well as the preparation of employees to accept these changes. The impression is that we're asleep in socialism, and we can't wake up in capitalism. He's here by adopting laws that sort of treat competition, that's capitalism. He is cruel, and we must prepare not to be so cruel, that the workers are protected. It must be an absolutely apostrophe of the human note of this system. This law already introduced competition in postal traffic through the gradual liberalisation of the postal transport market, where all participants, public postal operators and other postal operators, under certain conditions of law, will perform postal services, and the aim is to make the maximum development of postal services, introduce new services and monitor technological developments present in the world. The basic provisions of this law regulate the provision of postal services, ensure the availability of universal service under equal conditions. What is characteristic is that a special service has been provided from universal services, and these are guaranteed services that are monopolistic, so-called. reserved services. In many countries, and now I have had the opportunity to see Canada, where the vast space of the state takes care of it and guarantees delivery to the farthest part of the country, that the population has communication with the world. That part is still under state control. That's where I saw the Canadian Post, that part's state. It's what's characteristic of countries with great distances, but also countries like ours, where the decomposition of the population is huge, where there's a lot of poor layer that won't be able to pay for a shipment of market value. The basic provisions of this law regulate the provision of postal services and ensure the availability of universal service, which is precisely defined. The law was good. The diapazone of this universal service is quite wide, so it ensures that mail can support itself and be profitable. All other services, such as courier services, hybrid mail, are commercial services. To perform a universal service, a public operator is required to provide sufficient access points for users, which are so-called. our mail. There's a post office ready to streamline the so-called. The franchise. I was once again able to see that you have mail in the self-service, that is, part of the self-service performs postal activity, as well as the bookstore. It's one option for workers, when mail is really transformed, and when many people leave the post office, to open their business, small business, to be a family business, to overcome social problems. Other services, such as The universal service must be performed on the basis of the licence. Now it is a PTT company of Serbia's universal service; normally, it defines what is reserved service, and in order to cover a deficit in the provision of universal service, or universal service, the Seoul resolution has been told what every country can define what a service is. The law defines it exactly, and it's well done. The law provides such a solution that PTT Serbia has the right to receive, transfer and hand over written shipments of no more than 350 grams, which is a wide diapazone. European countries go to 50 grams. That, as well as reception and transfer of payment instructions in classical and electronic form. The postal service law lays down the mass-based and price-based ceiling under the European Union directive, and that is precisely defined. In a domain outside the reserved service, public postal operators and other operators, private companies, compete at each other's price, quality in the free market. It's for the users' sake. A public operator must comply with rules prohibiting the abuse of a dominant position on the market. At the amount of postal services reserved, the Republic of Serbia gives consent and makes up for the loss. I was able to give one amendment, but it happened that I pulled it. I think the government will think about it, no matter what happens. In the event that the revenues from reserved services are less than the costs, the State should compensate for the loss of the public operator. Costs are the basis for setting the postage. That'll be regulated by the agency. A public postal operator must separate special accounts for reserved and unreserved postal services. The newspaper in this law is an agency. That's familiar. There's been a lot of talk about it. She has to be an independent subject. Permissions and licenses will have to be issued. The particular question is why in Serbia we do not apply the Law on concessions. We've got him, unfortunately, we're not applying him. I'll use time to talk about it, especially now, there's been an announcement from Mr. Minister, a formed telecommunications agency. The concession law defines state goods and makes many state goods available for free. We're not so rich we can work like that. The state has to be rich to make individuals rich, not to be the other way around, so things like this happen to us. I've kind of initiated it, and I'm going to keep doing it, to finally start applying the concession law, because using one route to do postal traffic is a state good. The state's good are radio frequencies, and "Knjiz Milos", "Voda" etc. The Agency shall take care of the implementation of loyal competition, the protection of users and the national economy in general. She's giving licenses for a ten-year period. The postal operator shall pay the Agency the costs of issuing licences and compensation for the provision of postal services. It's been said that the agency is being funded. The current situation is such that the unsettled market in the area of postal traffic is obsolete. It's organized so that we have the consequences of those who wildly provide services, that they are not registered, which is not good. This bill of law is good. The G17 will back him up. I remember earlier, on the Internet I found a lot of information that the postal traffic law was on the agenda, but normally, the government adapted it to new provisions, new European Union directives, which is normal. There's something else I'd like to say. Last time I discussed the railroad law, I said our laws are too big. I urge government representatives to make the laws brief, precise, and all technological matters must be regulated by rules, government decisions or appropriate bodies. Why do I say that? Because it's easier to change the rules than the laws and the members of the law. The procedures are complicated. I said, the Law on Telecommunications of Slovenia has 25 regulations and is shorter than ours. I hope that this Telecommunications Act, however good, will also normally be adapted according to changes, technological and technical. I would especially like to point out that the most favorite people in the village are: postman, teacher; pop no longer, he used to be. Postmen are people who carry information and people sometimes stand at stations and wait for mail to come because it's a connection to the world. They're really tortured people, working in the rain and snow. They're our little heroes. I'm a postman. We have always respected these people, as well as the counter workers, who are in constant contact with the users of services. It's a very hard job. I hope that the post office and government will make such a law and social programme that it will be for the benefit of our workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11247	Thank you. The People's MP Aleksandar Djordjevic has the word, and let the MP Slavoljub Matic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11248	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and dear citizens of Serbia, since we are primarily Serbian citizens and we are passing laws that are of general interest to the entire state and society in which we live, we have a certain responsibility in the Assembly. The Serbian Radical Party MP group proposed a series of amendments to the Law on Postage Services, which the government submitted to the National Assembly. The main concept of the Serbian Radical Party in this area is to address key problems based on recommendations from the United Nations and everything that colleagues have said about this speaker, and amendments aim to specify the law in a clear and concrete way. In no way can we agree with the presentation of the Minister of Capital Investments, Mr Ilic, when he said the amendments, proposed by one group of MPs, in this case by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, are related to the agency. It is the key to our amendments to amend the bill, that the competent ministry is engaged in this area. In that sense, we have proposed these amendments. Given that the government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the fundamental difference between our and the concept of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seen. What is the key, we agree that this is a very important area and that it is necessary to pass law in this area, but a law that is in line with the time and economic conditions in which we live today. Form an agency whose members or members of the council will have eight average salaries, or that it will be at the level of the Director-General, does not mean an excuse to present Mr. Minister, when he said it was wrong, but that is simply the case. This must change because citizens in Serbia have to live better, people in Serbia should live better, there should be more, so let the government, the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister have fewer. What's most important is that Serbian citizens live better. That's why we're here in the Assembly. We should pass laws that are in line with the interests of Serbian citizens. So the main concept of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group is that the competent ministry in this area should do jobs without it being an agency. In this direction we have proposed all these amendments, with the aim of making the law clear, because in this area of postal services a large number of workers are working. What's the key is that members of the agency's council should have a salary of over 100,000 dinars, talking about what the bill is like. That's where the government can't find an excuse, because this has to be regulated. This applies to all the other laws that we have passed in this congregation. They're always forming agencies. The agencies are stockpiling administrative apparatus, all on the burden of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens. The aim of this assembly and our MPs should be the goal of all citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens must live better. This is the essence of all the legal proposals that we need to make, and that they are in this case in line with the UN recommendations or with what was brought at the Seoul Congress, and that my individual colleagues have been behind this speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11249	The People's MP Slavoljub Matic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11250	Since Mr. Secretary announced his address, I'll make sure I'm brief. It is not mentioned that this law also solves the fate of 18.5,000 employees in postal traffic and that people look forward to the solutions offered by this law. It is not mentioned above, too, that the law allows some 1500 postal units to be profitable, because more than half of Serbia's postal units do not operate in a profitable manner. I mention here a part of the law that is not mentioned by other MPs, which is the part of the law that extends delivery deadlines to postal shipments, which allows for the reduction and rationalisation of business. For this year, out of these 18.5 thousand employees, about 1300 workers expect to be on that list of overnumbered, because we are all aware that the public sector is burdened with excess labour. People in the post office are also aware of that. My conversations with people in the post office suggest that very good social programs have been prepared to help these people cope during this period of transition. It's an inevitability. Imminence is this law. I listened very carefully to all the speakers. I have to say, there were no more serious criticisms here. One opposition party mentioned, and it keeps mentioning that this law is a jacket, which is why it is most likely that a good part of this law was written in the mandate of the previous government. The fundamental question is whether there is a political will for laws to be passed and brought into life. It's not the basic question of who wrote them. They write law institutes, they write professional people, they can write for all parties bill proposals, but there should be political will for a law to be introduced into life. That's the difference between the previous government and the current government. I used this to mention our reasons. As for the second criticism by the SRS, we have not seen any serious criticism, and I think the minister will accept those amendments that will introduce order into the law itself and then get the conditions for all parliamentary groups to stand behind this system law that is very important for 18.5,000 employees, but also for the state of Serbia, which must safeguard a very important state institution, which is the post office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11251	The word has the People's MP Branislav Rankic, and let MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin to comment on the proposal for a postal service law on the agenda from Article 4. In Article 4, it says - the principles on which relations are based in the field of postal services are listed under nine points, and if you look closely, you will see that at the ninth point is "awareness and honesty" and that it is about principles. Anything else ahead of that is the objectives, and cannot be the principle of "providing universal postal service of prescribed quality and at affordable prices for all users in the territory of the Republic of Serbia". This can be the goal of this law and of editing these regulations in the field of postal services. The only principles you've hit are security and honesty. I don't know why it was necessary for whoever wrote this law and why he intended to write something, not taking care of what it really represents. This reminds me of a situation where my colleague, a student at the Borski Faculty, laid one object from mining completely unprepared and when the professor asked him to list the accompanying metals in one ore, he began guessing and said nickel, the professor nodded with his head, then lead, then zinc, and then finally volphrame and finally copper; the professor told him, and that's the fellow you hit first. That's how you wrote this article 4 here. You didn't need to. The next thing I know, it's Article 9, in the second position it's mentioned the formation of a Republic postal service agency. This agency shall also appear in Articles 21 and 44, and only in Article 65 shall the Republic Agency be formed. It can happen in one law. Perhaps it should have been later, because in all these members where the agency is mentioned, it is spoken of as what its responsibilities are, and they are fully listed in Article 65 and there was no need to be embodied in Articles 9, 21, 44 and 65. Here you will find sub-universal postal services in article 16. to provide all users with access to the postal network of a public postal operator at a reasonable distance from the place of residence, including mailboxes in public places and in the official premises of a post office operator. It is said what public postal operators, etc., can be equal sides and domestic, legal and physical faces. Here I would remind you that this member will be completely inapplicable because already the infrastructure for the provision of postal services in the Republic of Serbia is practically dysfunctional. Most of the time, it comes down to the fact that bigger populated places, cities and seats are municipalities with solid infrastructure, when it comes to villages, then the situation is that they usually don't have any mailboxes, they don't have any office where they could do the most basic postal services, and then you'll get into a situation when new postal operators are introduced, that they'll practically take on only those jobs, where there's already built infrastructure, which they can easily do. No one will be interested, believe me, in doing postal services, for example, in the villages of Luka and Tanda in the Bora municipality, which do not yet have telephone connections. Let's say, last year there was a case that with the post office Bor privateer had concluded a contract for the opening of an office, where postal services would have been provided in the village of Jasikovo, which is a village between Majdanpek and Zaguvica on that road, and otherwise belongs to the municipality of Majdanpek. After a few days, he shut down his office. It's completely unreserved and it turns out it's his wrong business move and no one's responsible, and the mail gave up that part of the village to provide its services. In the end, the residents of these villages have had to travel 20-30km to a nearby post office for a year for the most basic postal service they want to do. There will be the introduction of new operators and to achieve what you have achieved in some other areas. You see, for example, "Merkator" has no intention of opening it in Kladov's department store, will open it in Belgrade, Novi Sad, as a large facility opened almost in Krnjaca, and certainly no one will open it in other smaller places, such as Boljevac. In providing postal services by introducing this competition, you will only get that the rest of Serbia will continue to devastate as far as the population is concerned, and that large centres in Serbia and large cities, especially Belgrade, will receive a new inflow on a daily basis, and because people cannot do their basic services in these smaller places. I'll tell you something else, when it comes to providing conditions for competition, competitiveness and market operations in all areas, it was mainly created in some much larger countries, larger by area, where a man who dealt with certain services couldn't provide them on the whole territory of that country under the same conditions, in the same way, could not develop so quickly. First of all, I mean big countries, like the United States. Of course, they must have many more postal operators to provide different postal services in their various federal states. Serbia is small and one such market is small for the current system of our postal services. It should not at all be initiated to introduce some market principles and competition, because, as these two examples show, we will not achieve anything other than that we will completely destroy the existing system. It is good that Article 34 determines to what point the consignor of the consignment is the owner of that consignment. It's until the time of delivery or until it comes back, so it wouldn't happen that from the moment that some mail shipment is delivered, practically, that the mail should be owned or provided by the mail service owner. I said it was mentioned in article 44 that minimum quality standards are determined by the Republic Post Office. It's completely unnecessary. Here, where a member of the 65th Republic postal service agency is established, it is sufficiently indicated everything that will be dealt with, so there was no need to list in earlier members. However, when Minister Velimir Ilic mentioned the agency in his address at the outset, he said that, in practice, the aim of forming such a republican agency is to make one regulatory, primarily of politics, an independent body and that in the later work and functioning of the postal service system it does not come to the effect of politics in any way. From past experience, Mr. Minister, I must tell you that this may be your declarative position, and there is nothing of it, that politics will decide who will be members of the agency's council. Of those elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, members of the council will always choose those who have a majority in the Assembly. The proposal will be made by the government supported by most, so it is in itself a political body, so it will certainly not be independent in every respect. The supervision of the application of this law will be carried out by the Ministry. I won't talk much about the agency, some other members of the SRS will talk, the MPs who speak here. You have here in reason, mainly by the directives issued by the European Union from time to time, that the full equality of domestic and foreign persons must be ensured. We have absolutely no objection to this, but these directives, which are adopted from time to time by the European Union, are, above all, relevant and only to the countries of the European Union. They align their legislation with them from time to time because of these directives. In any case, this doesn't oblige us. Take any country from the European Union and provide one team from the ministry who will copy and translate all their laws in six months. You have a majority and without any debate we will adopt these laws, and see if we will be admitted to the European Union. No, of course not. This doesn't oblige us, and there's no need for us to accept anything at all that could possibly cost us much more later, and it costs us, first of all, the destruction of those systems that function in any way, but they work in these very difficult times in a very business positive way. You have in one place, tariffs and postage, in the interpretation of the law, where you say postage users will pay for the provision of postal services and they are determined by universal postal service providers, taking care of respect for the principles of unity and non-discrimination. This, I guarantee you, will lead to price building, especially when more postal operators are introduced. They will allow new operators to appear in the postal service system for certain parts, install jobs for each other and the price building will occur.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11253	The word is by MP Velimir Simonovic, then we will have a break, and then the MP Sreto Peric will speak afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this law has been discussed on the Committee where I am a member, I have already declared myself to the law itself, but I want to make a few comments again. Since I belong, according to my profession, to an exact science, it bothers me when the term appears that services will be performed at affordable prices, for example. It's so vague and it appears in many places, but it's passed on to the Committee. Or, when said in Article 22. "respecting the principle that postage should be accessible to users." Whatever price he puts in the mail, he'll be citizens whose prices aren't affordable. That's perfectly clear. Could that have been more specific, that's another question. My main objection is about this agency. We put, of course, all the board members there, objections to the proposed salary. It's one amendment fixed. If there were no delusions and if there were any knowledge of what it was, although I am not the author of the amendment submitted by colleagues Zoran Angelkovic and Zarko Obradovic, I would read to you that you know what the wages are now planned. The salary of the chairman of the council cannot be higher than the salary of the president of the National Assembly's working body, and the salary of members of the council cannot be higher than the salary of the MP in the National Assembly, paid in the previous month. So, the 10 average salaries for the president fell off, etc. Now it's brought into some more reasonable frames. I wouldn't mention this much right now, but I want to say something about agencies at all. Some agencies set up, I think, as I recall, that former government. The largest number of agencies have passed former or current authorities through various laws. We already have a lot of agencies. There's a certain charm here. Somewhere there's a director of the agency, somewhere the president, so the board of directors, here's the advice, etc. Since we have the agency law on the agenda, I haven't been able to study it in detail yet, but I expect that the government will finally clear up this situation, that all agencies are educated in a unique way, and that they have unique governing bodies, so that there is no such charm. For example, Article 67 says, "The Agency is operating under public service regulations." If the agency is acting under public service regulations, then the salaries of people working there must be determined by the law on the salaries of civil servants, and that is not the case. I'm saying, I expect the agency law to finally discuss these issues. While I'm here, let me say one more thing. The post office, like Telekom, as well as some other public enterprises, are also large suppliers of equipment. It has been observed, and the intended advice to take care of it, the resolution ministry could also make sure that it reaches for import equipment very easily, although our many companies can produce equipment of the same quality; or, if there are some small differences that do not affect the functioning of the system, it still gives priority to imports. Who will support our economy and our industry if not those big public enterprises that are big suppliers of equipment. That's something to be taken care of. Also, I think the prices for phone entry are very high. There's something strange going on, and it's quite typical of electro-priority as well. So, if there's a village to get to a local phone, then those people who live there need to secure the pillars themselves, secure the cables, insulators, etc., put those pillars themselves in the ground, and then the installers from the mail come to install the phones. Then these pillars and cables become PTT property. This is where Serbian citizens buy a basic asset to a state-owned company. I understand that the post office doesn't have the money to say -- citizens, you buy those columns, etc., that's what you gave us, we'll pay you back after a few years, or you'll have a discount on services for a while, etc. Instead, citizens need to buy a basic asset to these companies, which is wrong. After all, when someone gets a phone, the consumer pays the impulses, he's a customer. He needs to be allowed to get to the phone cheaper. In developed countries you are offered to enter a phone into every room, if you want to put it in the bathroom. They force you to have as many phones in the house as possible, so they give you all kinds of bonuses. If you're the user of a postal company, then they give you some various discounts, and they say -- where do we pay you what you've acquired as a bonus, so my former student now living in America earned a free plane ticket from America to Belgrade, which he got from a post office whose user is like a discount. He said put my money on the airline here and here. Let's start working a little bit better with our citizens, make the phone a little cheaper, because whoever got the phone has automatically become a customer of that mail, let that phone use as much as possible, it'll pay and it'll be all right. I ask the Minister and the Ministry to be interested in the provision of equipment in public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11255	I thank the MP Simonovic. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, continue our afternoon session, since we have an official record of 130 MPs present, please check the work quorum. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. Thank you. The People's Messenger Sreto Peric has the word, and let the People's Messenger Dusan Prorokovic be prepared. At the same time, I'm using the opportunity to inform you, because of the leased terms, so at this point, we don't have a direct, but a delayed session transfer, so that someone doesn't get surprised by the viewers. In 10 minutes, the delayed transmission will begin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11257	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my discussion of the postal service law will begin with one question. Is the SRS for this law? I must immediately say that it is the SRS for a law that will arrange postal services. We have an obligation to the Serbian people and all citizens of Serbia, because we are part of that people and because the SRS is the headquarters of the largest number of smart Serbian heads, and it was proven yesterday at a large scientific gathering held at the Sava Centre, where over 55 university and academic professors spoke of the legal and political aspects of the indictment against Prof. Vojislav Seselj. And when it comes to the postal service law, we also have access to this law, however, in principle in this way, that is, with what is given in the proposal for this law, we cannot agree on everything. This law provides for the editing of certain areas, even working hours are prescribed in these postal units, at what time the light should be turned on in the morning, there were these details, and some other things were not completely clearly processed and were not fully defined by the bill. We agree that there is a need to join a competition in providing services in the area of postal traffic, but what is predicted here will not be a safe prevention of competition. In fact, we're going to have a situation like, I guess, the promoter himself doesn't want to be one. Namely, public postal operators are predicted, which is the current post office, i.e. JP PTT, and other postal operators who will appear by 2009 to assume some of the responsibilities from postal traffic. However, we assume that the favored will be a postal operator, and that is fine, and I think that part of the funds foreseen for the introduction, i.e. for the work of the agency, should be defined and directed towards improving the conditions in the current post office, i.e. for all employees, and that better conditions should be allowed for them, and that postal service users should also be able to make better and better use of services. In fact, when it comes to postal workers, someone mentioned it here, we don't only have anything against that kind of work, but we can also commend some. For postal units from Love, to this one that operates within the National Assembly building, we can only express the words of praise. But the minister said he managed to solve some problems under the PTT company. I suppose he was referring to the management of the Post Office, or to the management of the Post Office, and I expected at one point that as an energetic, as an operative man, he would succeed in doing so and in resolving and that Serbian citizens have better quality services, and that those who are employed in the post office have better working conditions. In order to improve the quality of this law, the SRS has invested about 40 amendments and, if accepted, this law can be improved. The principled differences exist with this agency, which is mentioned here for the first time in Article 9, and later in a few more and finally in article 45, the agency's organs are said to be. That's a little different than many of the agencies that have been set up so far. But, well, someone said, it seems to me that Professor Simonovic, when the law on public agencies, will unify this relationship with the agencies and that will be resolved in that way. I remind you once again that it is envisaged that, when this agency is set up at a monthly level, around 2.5 million dinars are invested in operating costs and 1,900,000 more later on at the monthly level for the work of those agencies, and that these funds have been invested in improving the conditions in which mail works, this would be far more effective. We must meet the needs of citizens, i.e. the users of postal services, and thus solve problems, and not in this way, where the introduction of agencies and reorganisation is envisaged in some other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11258	The People's MP Dusan Prorokovic has the word, and let the MP Stefan Zankov be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11259	Dear Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I would first like to clarify a dilemma that arises about the adoption of many laws in the Serbian Parliament. In fact, it is about directives or some legislative measures of the European Union that we must introduce into our legislation. Of the 25 members of the European Union, there is no one to compromise national legislation in relation to European legislation. So in all currently 25 countries, full members of the European Union, European legislation and the experience of humanitarian law, they have a basis for countering national legislation. Only two states have courts that are allowed to interpret European law, which are Finland and Greece. In the remaining 23 cases, any norm of European legislation is directly applicable in domestic legislation if some two measures are contrary. We don't have to pass a law like this. We can stay on the existing, and in five, six, or not know how many years, when we are full members of the European Union, we will have standards and these European directives as mandatory. I'd like it to be as soon as possible, but it doesn't depend on the authorities, on me, on the DSS how quickly we're going to join the European Union, depending, it seems to me to be all 250 MPs and our legislative activities. It's a topic for another congregation debate. Directly all these directives will be implemented in domestic legislation, and I think it is much better to start preparing our systems slowly, as some other countries have done, for the next period, to adapt to a new way of systematization, way of doing business, so as not to be caught and surprised by the measures that will follow when they enter the European Union. Again, it's up to us ourselves how fast it's gonna be. There are those political conditions for accession, there are technical conditions. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by the nature of its work, is much more turned towards this so-called technical, and the more laws we change, the better we will adapt our system to some new conditions, the conditions of the open market, the competition, and I think we will welcome the date of full membership much more ready. Put aside the legislation of the European Union. This law for the first time introduced a revolutionary change since 1945, introduces competition in postal traffic. So far, there have been isolated cases, therefore, that this competition has appeared in some way. This is the first time that systemically, therefore, the law introduces competition into this area. Competition in all areas, not only in the postal services system, has always brought lower prices and higher quality, so as far as the DSS is concerned, Minister Ilic, as well as the people working on making this law, has full support. A question has been asked by some MPs here what will happen to those territorial organisation units, or these programs of mail that are not profitable, therefore, which will not be reported by any possible private entity who will try to work even more effectively. The answer exists in the law itself. So, within the regulatory agency that will form existing funds from which those passive areas in our country will be financed, so that we do not come into a situation where some countries only have profitable branches privatised, that non-profitable areas are shut down, and that then we have a situation that parts of the country that have developed become even more developed, and those who are underdeveloped become even more underdeveloped. That is why the concept of a fund is being introduced, which should in one normal way balance all needs of our market and thus meet the legal provisions that every person in this country, wherever he lives, postal services are available. Also, when we talk about the introduction of competition in postal traffic, it is explicitly stated that a foreign person must perform under this law, or under the terms of this law, all activities in our market. I'm saying this because some foreign corporations are already on our market, some came before 2000, some after October 5, 2000. A typical example is one of DHL's largest multinational postal traffic companies. They have a big business building in New Belgrade. Some foreign companies, when you apply for a job or for a visa, condition you to send their service documents or certified copies of documents, and their presence on our market is regulated only by the Company Act. So it's not regulated by the postal traffic law and postal services at all. There's been a lot of trouble here at the agency. I agree with the remarks of some previous speakers that one system-based, organic law needs to be regulated by what is actually an agency. We can't compare at all the competences and descriptions of the agency's work, which will work as an independent regulatory body, and let's say the privatisation agencies. These are two, by their authority, according to their job descriptions, completely different organisations. If, in one case, something is referred to as the Agency, then in the other case, it is not possible to find some other appropriate term and, in accordance with the competences of the relevant organisations, to classify them with one system, or organic law. Also, this law introduces an inspectorial service with a lot of broad powers, which is good, and I think it will prove useful. We must not allow on the market, due to many labour gaps, some and how it looks through the fingers or because of the ineffectiveness of the entire system, they continue to remain on the market. Those who want to operate unfairly on the market should be sanctioned immediately. If that's the case in other countries, I don't see why it wouldn't be on our market. Then, the legislator's intensity, as seen in the bill itself, is that in those environments, in passive areas, first try to create contractual mail on profitable grounds. So something doesn't have to be profitable for the entire postal system, our Belgrade-based state mail, but it doesn't mean that something has to be non-profitable at the same time for a private entity in that environment, and only then, if that private entity is not found who would take over that contract mail, then that these mails are subsidized from the budget, i.e. to subsidise from some state funds. In the end, I'd like to say that this is the way to introduce you and what order in this area. Had it been luckier, such a law would have come before parliament much earlier, and much earlier would have been adopted, so that we would not now have a paradox to discuss in the Assembly whether or not this law should be passed, and we already have certain businesses that are completely past the law and past regulatory norms. As for the last remarks given here, which are salaries in the regulatory body, of course high wages as an anti-corruption measure are necessary. However, it is a little strange to say that a man who would receive 12,000 or 15,000 dinars would decide on those 0.5% that the regulatory agency would take from all entities on the market. Thus, high wages should enable those people to work uninterruptedly. They need to be offered this as an anti-corruption measure, but as with agencies, many anomalies are also in this segment. We've got a lot of disparity in those pay grade. I know it is a great pain to write such a law, but it is impossible for the president of the regulatory agency to have twice as much salary as the Prime Minister or a fourfold salary as the president of the Serbian Parliament. So, in that segment, we need one system-based, organic law, so that we can settle the issue of paying classes in this country. I repeat, this law introduces such order. This law defines some areas that have not been defined before. I hope that from the middle of this year we will also have a better and more organised postal service system, and because of the arrival of interested foreign companies on our market and a much more full budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11260	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov, and let the MP Rade Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11261	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill on postal services is one in a series of laws that should regulate an extremely important area such as postal services, and it is good that, in principle and on the formal side, the adoption of such a law will be regulated beyond the long-overcoming solutions of the Law on Liaison Systems. Under what conditions would this law in this form, or bill that came before the National Assembly, be acceptable to the Serbian Radical Party? This was explained in more detail by our authorised representative Zlatan Jovanovic, and I would not talk about it much, but I would like to talk about the bill from another aspect. We could, in principle, accept the competition in this sphere and stop the monopoly that exists now, the liberalisation of that market, those services. In our perspective, we believe that it is not yet time to approach it, knowing the situation that exists in this area in our country. It is not enough argument for us to accept this as it comes from some European Union committee and allegedly because of the European Union's approach, I don't know how many years. Instead, purely technical solutions, the bill does not need to include things we cannot possibly agree on as the largest parliamentary group in the Serbian parliament. Apparently, everything is masked by the words depoliticisation and fleeing from the alleged involvement of political parties in this area and its regulation. The first thing I'd like to say here is it's not true that the advice that needs to be managed by the republican postal service agency, chosen by the National Assembly, is not under the influence of politicians, and the fact is that it is chosen by the National Assembly, in which members of political parties sit. At present, this is the relationship of power, and in power are those parties that are. No one can verify whether one of the proposed candidates for this council is a member of a political party, public or secret, etc. The second thing, it is several times going through the draft laws sent by the Government to the National Assembly, trying to make it clear that those who deal with politics through political parties are not good quality in areas they deal with, do not have the quality of doing a job and are automatically disqualified for various advices, agencies, etc. We in the Serbian Radical Party cannot agree. He can be a quality, honest and worthy man in a party; not if he is in a party, he is not good, he would do the job in an inappropriate and unskilled way. So, this argument, as a reason for the establishment of the agency, I don't think it stands. On the contrary. I think its establishment wants to create a place for certain personnel, who have not yet received arrest in a coalition government that is in power, or people close to that government. This topic, therefore, is the establishment of a republican postal service agency, as you have heard in many statements from the Serbian Radical Party MPs, is the fundamental observation of the parliamentary group, and for which we will not vote, and we cannot do so despite the things I have already mentioned. If our objections are accepted, we may vote, but the existence of the agency is a fundamental matter and the reason why we cannot accept voting for this bill. The Serbian Radical Party is essentially and programmeically against the establishment of the agency. That's what we've said here many times. The agencies would take over the affairs of the ministries, their responsibility, and in this way in this country we create parallel ministries or para-ministers, as we can call them. This kind of thing is completely irrational, because in this case, the competent ministry of staff and materially is fully trained to do the jobs that you are putting into the works of the Republic postal service agency. This requires recruitment and additional financial resources in the Republic's budget, not to mention Article 75 in particular. The bill, which provides for the salaries of members and president of the agency's council. Salaries as planned here are also an insult to responsible people, who are located in the seats of ministers, Prime Minister, President of Parliament, MPs, who have good incomes, but I believe that insults are such high-incomes, and that I am not talking about people who work with high professional equipment for 10, 15 or 20,000 dinars, extremely responsible jobs and the like. This wouldn't be so terrible if it wasn't repeated from law to law. Any law regulating a particular area forms an agency replacing the competent ministry. This is what the largest coalition party has criticised in the previous government, which has formed various agencies by regulations, are now being formed by law, but the essence is the same, agencies are forming, which is totally unacceptable for us. We've tried a number of amendments here to convince you otherwise, that it's not good. If nothing else, at least most citizens will hear our opinion and we are sure that a better and better quality solution is that the competent ministries do their jobs, that their jobs are not taken over by the agencies. So many of us have been caught by one, I'd say, inflation in the establishment of these agencies, and I'll always repeat that, and we have a bill on public agencies in particular, so I'd end up telling you more about it and I'd like to try one more witty way to show how far it's too high. But I'm trying to convince you that this concept of government over agencies is not good, that executive power should be in government and ministries. For the end of one joke, it's best to form one agency to form an agency, to make that job easier for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11262	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Rade Obradovic. He's not here. ) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radisa Ilic, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Darko Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this law, like all the other laws proposed by the Government so far, is based on the regulations and directives of the European Union. Even though the European Union is neither in sight nor in sight, decades away, we blindly clothe our laws with solutions that correspond to the level of development of Western European countries, and not to us. The truth is that the only purpose of all this is to weaken or, more specifically, disorganise essential systems, such as energy, rail, Serbia, water industry, etc. And today it's the postal service area. Some kind of deadline should be met in Serbia by 2009 with a slight decrease in the place of licensed operators, which will almost possess our market and exploit it until further notice. Is our country trying to protect the mail as a large organized system with a large number of employees? Before I move on to certain members of this law, I must point out that this law also provides for the establishment of an agency. Because of the agency, there must be advice, which has further authority and so out of the blue. Why the agency? Isn't there no professional people in the Post Office who, as so far, will be working on tasks that, just enough to be called something new, are transferred to the phantom agency. The agency as an agency does not essentially bring anything new, only serves to hire members of individual parties in power. As an organ, it never answers for nothing, because nothing actually works. Just because it's written on paper, which are the Agency's obligations and tasks, doesn't mean that it's real and accomplished. The Republic postal service agency referred to in Article 65 shall be independent of any State authority. So she's untouchable and can literally do whatever she wants. In order to achieve some kind of apparent surveillance, there is an independent audit officer, elected by the board, and the advice is the Agency's authority. So the agency chooses its own auditor, who controls the agency's incomes and expenditures. The council is a special story. The President of the Council seems to be more employed, with greater responsibility than the Minister himself, and also the Prime Minister, if the salary has measured the work. The president's salary should be equal to ten average monthly earnings in the economy of the Republic of Serbia and the salary of members of the board of eight average salaries. This is not only in the area of postal services, but in almost all the councils, directorates and similar bodies, which are based on new legal solutions in railways, energy, etc. Article 42 provides for the installation of home crates everywhere, in residential buildings, in business facilities, in the entrances to the courtyards, in the countryside. What are the technical conditions that will be designed and prescribed by the Republic postal service agency? Does this mean that all households should go out to get special mailboxes? The country's households do not have any mailboxes, let alone to obtain mailboxes, which, according to Article 42, "must be designed according to technical conditions". At a time when more than a million people are unemployed in Serbia, there is thought of something insignificant, such as the dimensions of mailboxes. Who's going to take action against the householders if they don't get that famous mailbox. In the part of the licence, the issue of licences and approvals, which are re-issued by the current agency, shall be discussed. Looks like this law is all about the agency. In Article 80, the last point is said - the condition for issuing a licence is that the applicant owns a postal network, but is not told what and where it is organised, how large the network is, what its successes are in the work, whether there are negative phenomena where the former applicant had a postal network. It's gone and it's unknown. Article 83 of the same section in the content - licences, also states the territory in which postal services are provided. If the user ceases to provide postal services on the assigned territory and does not notify the Agency within 30 days, which assumes obligations to the users. Is that part of Serbia's mail supposed to be like some kind of Red Cross jumping in as needed when one of the licensed operators simply breaks the contract? The problem of rentability is the problem that exists everywhere in the world when it comes to postal services. The state also plans to cover the deficit as a result of the cost of small incomes. By 2009, however, the EU plans to fully liberalise the market, i.e. not subsidising it for the resulting deficit. As our Government attaches itself to European regulations and directives with all its powers, let us consider how this will bring all of this into a state of rentability. The division of the territory of postal service operators will lead to the fact that they remain inert areas, i.e. territories on the burden of the state, that is, PTT Serbia, such as in road transport, in the future railways, and so will happen in the area of postal services. That's the case in Serbia's economy. What's been preserved and well sold, and what's inertable, with outdated technology, remains on the back of the state. In light of this law, you wrote that the government would, if adopted, decide to establish Serbia's mail as a stockholder's society. What will interest employees is safe and the way actions will be shared to employees. Of course, PTT employees, taught by experience, of course, poor workers from other companies that have been sold over the last four years, want to know how much they will belong to them from all the PTT assets. Finally, I would like to comment on Article 67, where it is predicted that for certain professional tasks of my jurisdiction, and I underline this, the agency can hire other domestic and foreign legal or physical persons. And if members of the agency were probably professional people, this is the previous article 66. There is a total of 21 actions that must be done, which are mostly closely tied to the profession. In addition, they are still given the right to give individual professional jobs to individuals of their choice. There's a possibility of abuse here right now. Simply, the agency has jobs to do on its own to give in to someone else, which are very lucrative and expensive jobs, designing labs, programs, projects and the like. This is the best example the agencies are for. It is now recognised that the agency is composed of unprofessional people, when Article 67 is given the possibility to involve experts on the part, but for good money. The agency and those appointed by the agency are now being paid for what they should do for themselves. Serbia's government officially swallows whatever is provided on a spoon from the EU, regardless of the possibility of implementation. The SRS does not run away from reforms and compliance with EU rules, but cannot be at the expense of Serbian citizens and their interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11264	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11265	Mr Mihajlovic, I am advertising the Rules of Procedure in the work relating to the public session of the Assembly, but the whole spirit of the Rules of Procedure does not make sense if the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia deceived us half an hour ago, telling MPs at the beginning, or the continuation of the afternoon part of the session that the transfer of the Assembly through state television will be provided in 10 minutes. That's simply not true, because the handball game that I have, as well as the other MPs, is going to last until 17:30 at least. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it's completely pointless without the public working to discuss the law you're saying is a systemic character, it's very important, and on which we have serious grudges, you can see from the discussion of the MPs of the SRS. Mr. Markovic is not in the O.R. right now, but, sir, here he is, Mr. Markovic, now your role is optional because you are not in the chair. I need to remind you of what you said from this pay phone a little over a month ago. You, Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, literally said, as long as I chair this assembly session, there will always be a transfer and I will try to be, otherwise there is no point in continuing the work of the Assembly. Remember, it was the same game, it was football. I ask for further explanation and to tell us, with consultation with the gentleman from state television, and by the way, to determine how many MPs there are in the hall, whether we have a quorum for work and without transmission, although it is absolutely pointless to continue the session while you, as president of the Assembly, and also to the competent minister and to us MPs, do not provide us with the public of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11266	The President of Predrag Markovic Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11267	You weren't present at the beginning of the afternoon session. I've informed all MPs, just because I keep my word, there will be no direct match but a delayed transmission. The MPs agreed, and that's all we started working for, and otherwise we wouldn't have done it. Otherwise, I'm taking the opportunity, since you're not authorized, so it's not possible to ask, and I agree you can't work without a quorum, I'm asking the chairman to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11268	Thank you. Since it's requested, I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum for work. Insert the cards into your identification units. Since it's obvious we don't have a quorum, I'm taking a break of ten minutes. [[After break – 17.00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we continue to work, I ask you to establish a quorum. Since there's a quorum to work with, we'll continue the session. The word has a People's MP Darko Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that the law governing the matter of postal services is necessary and should be passed. However, the SRS believes that through the presentation of our mandated promoter and through discussions of our MPs, we pointed out that the concept of it is falling back from how we see that the law should regulate the area of postal services. Of course, the key to which we differ and the largest number of amendments that go in this direction to correct such a thing is the agency, which, from law to law, is going through every bill. That's what the SRS thinks shouldn't exist in law. We believe that these tasks that the agency performs can certainly be carried out by the competent ministry and that this is how the waste of funds is unnecessary and in a way more complicated the very procedure of functioning of such a law. Article 65 provides for the establishment of an agency, a regulatory body to take care of the implementation of this law. Although Minister Ilic explained that the body would be independent, we have a certain amount of doubt through what is going on in Article 68, that the council has five members who elect and resolve the National Assembly. We suspect that the ruling majority will thus control what is going to happen. So, once again, I point out, we're not concepts for forming agencies. To me personally, Minister Ilic, I must tell you, the very word agency is an association of that former DS regime, which ruled from 2000 until 2004, when such a word is mentioned, immediately associates me with those benefits that they brought to us both as a people and as a state. Of course, we will try through the amendments that we have submitted, I expect you to consider them, that in a really correct way we try to bring this text of the Post Office Bill into line, so that it is really applicable and that those end-users, therefore, citizens, can have a really effective service that would help them meet their needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11271	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11272	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on postal services, a new law, but history seems to repeat itself. The principles of objections made by the SRS, as well as earlier drafts of the law, are still not adopted. First of all, it's an objection to the establishment of new agencies. And by this law, and it seems to be every new law you pass, you introduce at least another agency in Serbia's legal life. Every agency means another board of directors, another board of supervisors, every agency means a new director. The administrative apparatus is increasing, tax expenditures are increasing, and that's exactly the opposite of everything you promised when you came to power. The explanation that the agency is needed to avoid party influences in Serbia in 2005 really does not seem too convincing, especially when it is given that the agency will be managed by the council, that the council will be elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government. We repeat the story we had at earlier agencies, the story is repeated with all those organs and bodies called independent, which should be chosen by the National Assembly, on the government's proposal. We have already repeatedly convinced ourselves that the crucial influence on all these organs and on all these elected people, namely who will be elected and who will not, will have political parties. It would be much simpler and cheaper if political parties in parliament were to make their proposals for all these people, if they knew who the man whose proposal was, if they were not to hide behind independent bodies like the High Council of Justice, and at the end of this session, we would have the opportunity to see what the proposal for a choice of judges is, if everyone had to stand behind their own man and say - that and that is what we have proposed and we answer for his work. That's enough of the agency's been formed so far. Members and directors are always elected by coalition quotas. Also, the minister's explanation for the agency's salaries must be enormous because, among other things, the director's salary in the post office is already huge, and the question is that those in the agency, who are superior to the directors in the post office, will have fewer salaries than they are. It must be said that it is not enough to formally abolish the monopoly in this area, which is done by this law, but it is necessary that, in essence, people who are in charge and who will be managed by PTT in the coming period, change the way they think, that they realize that the time of the monopoly has passed and that they have to start acting marketly and competitively, and that they can no longer cut their own wages as far as they can think. They must remember that they are the service of citizens, that keeping a monopoly in a particular area does not mean that without them, but rather, there are certainly many more interested people, and that is incomparably better quality than those who have led PTT so far, people to whom it would be less of an affair, and which, as much as they would be willing to do for much less than pay, take those commitments they had so far. Enough of what's controversial in this law. Those who have carefully read the amendments to the SRS will be able to see it. It's not just about these principles that we have for both this and all the other agencies. Of course, there is also a disputed compensation of 0.5% to be paid for the provision of postal services. In fact, this bill suggested that each operator must, in addition to paying the postal service agency in particular and obtaining a service license, to set aside 0.5% of their total revenues. At first glance, this percentage may not seem like much, but if it is given how much money is turned into postal services, it is certain that it is dozens and hundreds of millions of dinars. The question arises as to why such funds will be poured into the Agency's budget, especially if it is borne in mind that these funds will not be allocated from the profits of those who are in the future engaged in postal services, but, as in other areas, they will, as well as in other areas, be overrun, burdened by the users of services, will be burdened by our citizens, and this will always, as a rule, affect those who have the least income, i.e. the poorest citizens. What's the problem with this law, that's what this law puts in an unequal position, which will have to do postal services where it's not profitable. Of course, it has to be done. It is necessary that even in the outermost villages of that postal service security is provided, but the problem is that these deficits will then be covered by the state. You say that these losses, or losses, will not be or will be minimal, but when we get to practice, it is certain that these losses will be much greater than you are now predicting. You could say a lot about certain members. There are a lot of inaccuracies in the law, some completely pointless expressions, such as in Article 3(1), point (2), where it says that the universal postal service must be provided in the context of the prescribed quality and at affordable prices. Who is it that will, without pre-prescribed conditions, prescribe what are affordable prices. What is accessible for one citizen is certainly not going to be for another unless this job determines what an affordable price is leave to the directors of the agency with these high wages. It is certain that they will determine it by their own arches. Of course, these expressions, which then leave someone on a personal assessment to determine whether something is affordable or not, have no place in the law for me. It's interesting your solution, because we didn't accept, where it says here, that the postal operator is a domestic or foreign person who is a direct postal service provider. The amendment of the SRS is to limit it, and the government did not accept it, that it must only be legal persons. The government’s reasoning is that this makes it impossible for many to engage in this area, e.g. They won't be able to deal with postal services and entrepreneurs. The question arises whether the government wants to put order in this extremely important area or whether this law wants chaos to be created. Do we want to deal with postal services by 1,000 companies, or 1,000 entrepreneurs from today to tomorrow, or do we want this area to be settled in one orderly way and that we have mostly larger businesses that will guarantee, with their capital and some quality and long-term work, the provision of certain services to citizens. Now I don't have time, in principle debate, to devote myself more to the details, but for the amendments, the SRS parliamentary group will have much more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11273	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11274	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I was speaking at the end of the principle debate, but since we have a meeting with the IMF in half an hour, we need to get involved to answer some questions. You've been discussing today and there have been discussions that are good, there are people who know this matter very well. But there are MPs, unfortunately, who care a lot about this people, and they've been talking about everything and everything for hours, and they don't even know what it is. So, this is the law, if you didn't know I'd let you know, about postal services. Secondly, which is very important, you've been telling some stories here that don't stand. First, in particular, I won't mention names to waste time in some replicas, but individuals talk about the Director's salary ratio in public enterprises and the smallest personal income. They forget when their man was a minister, in this place, that the range was 12 times. The second thing, we had a series of laws from that period that were disastrous for the state. Don't say anything else. Look who was the minister before Mrs. Rushete, so who was the minister when the Telecom contract was being made, who made the contracts, who were the people who implemented certain decisions, who created Telecom, during whose term, as the post office, which was extremely good, was heavily robbed through some daughter companies, etc. and in whose terms it was done. So we came here to fix it with a modern law. The EU law has adopted and we are part of the system. You've seen, there's a law coming up - a single sky over Europe. We can't read the lesson now, as some people think, as we think we can arrange the world and Europe. We watched that movie, and we couldn't fix it, but they came in later to get us into the other system. Secondly, the post office has never been on the budget in its history, it's never been covered by budgets, it's not on the budget now, and it's not losing. Imagine when mail is now quite solid in these conditions, where we're saying there are a lot of problems and when it's brought down the daughters of companies that are extremely profitable. Let's take Telecom, Mobtel. I'd like to explain - the agency is being created. Why? That there is no more chance of being created on the mailing machine of billionaires in Serbia. Gentlemen, the postmen created a system by delivering mail across Serbia, creating, buying and building. Now they don't have new uniforms, they don't have to train politely, they live decently, and we heard from the discussion that billionaires have come out in the whole system. What's the point now? To be taken from these billionaires, to put in that budget and to cover it, to come to one decent level, which is unprofitable. It's true that every village has to be a postman, but it's also true that someone who takes billions has to put into that fund to pay the postman decently, to be decently trained, to be able to live off his salary. So let's not tell any stories now. We didn't come here to make a law through the amendments, to cut his hair. It's not true that the salaries will be that range you've been discussing all day. The government adopted the SPS amendment to make the agency's salary maximum as the president of the working body in parliament, and members of the agency as MPs in the Serbian Parliament. The amendment was accepted and became an integral part of the bill. Furthermore, the agency is not budgetary. The agencies will hire a part of the people. What's the point? To get a portion of the department's surplus employees into the agency. The agency is self-sustaining and will accept up to 18% of the ministry's staff in its assembly and will cut the funds used by the Ministry of Budgets to maintain certain structures employed by the ministry. Read the law carefully and you'll see what's going on. The agency's salaries didn't remain, and there was a discussion that order had to be introduced, that much equipment was being imported. I couldn't agree more. A large part of the equipment in the PTT and telecommunications system can be done in the domestic economy. It's completely justified and we have to fight for it. The Ministry can't order, you know that boards are investigating certain purchases through the Public Procurement Agency. The Agency for Public Procurement must give priority to the domestic economy. We're shutting down an electronic industry that can build a mass of products and put into operation as a domestic product, with some parts that would be imported. Therefore, I completely agree and that is acceptable, I think Professor Simonovic talked about it, it is a completely justified remark and we have to work on it. Then, it is true that there are 900 mails that are inert in Serbia, and 600 are profitable. But from this budget we have to create real conditions to give to those who work there. Secondly, the agency is elected for six years. The agency will function to change maybe two, three, four governments and three or four parties that will be in power, but the government has not proposed an agency. I fought for 10 months for the Agency for Telecommunications to pass in the government, because this was the opinion - how to support certain structures that were not from the party. The Academy of Science proposed a member of the agency and he was accepted, and we have to accept it. In the government, only the form was accepted, an agency with certain biographies of people proposed by the institutions. The University of Nis proposed one person professionally, his professor in telecommunications and we accepted it, and only college can change who does not work honestly and honestly. So, SANU can change its member if it doesn't work well, but the government can't change their membership. We're just here to accept and give to the Assembly. The agency and the members of the agency will come to you here to discuss your biography and give them the green light. They can't set up parties, that's a condition, because it can't be a party body. What tomorrow, there are elections and there's a change in the furniture in power and they need to change the agency; it can't, the agency is elected and very difficult to change. The agency shift procedure is very large and it remains to do its job, I repeat, as an independent regulatory body. So certain institutions propose one member and these members come before you here to discuss them. One question here was very interesting, therefore, that some companies are being inserted into the telecommunications system and Telecom, and that's true. Some previous furniture allowed a non-good organization to enter Telekom channels for free, for years under cable TV, and to create a completely parallel system in Serbia for our telecommunications. Please, there's someone here to say what happened. Is it possible for someone to make free use of Telekom Srbija channels and enter with optical cables into all major Serbian cities, into every household, and create a completely parallel system that can be activated tomorrow. So I broke it off, but it was too late. A great deal has been done without talking about what the officials have been cooking up, and today the high officials, and today we are hearing some discussions here on the subject. So I'd just like to add, I've told the members of the council, and it's been pushed more than once, the powers of inspection in the PTT system are strong. So far no one has considered CTU inspectors for anything, when they come, they throw them out. Now through the agency they have all the powers, so the entire system will be able to control. Several wild companies with parallel systems were created in Serbia. Please, why did the European Union force us to solve this and why it requires the creation of independent regulatory bodies. Because campaigns of individual politicians and political options through these systems have been paid large funds to individual agencies. I'm not going to read to you right now, and if you're interested in it once, I can name and last name, and you'd all be blushing here when you hear what numbers went to the political parties' campaigns, right from PTT and Telekom, and don't think nobody was clean. No one was clean. Once again, many resources have been poured out in various ways. Don't think anyone was clean, I repeat. I can talk, but please don't, but we can adopt a law that will put this in order and that political parties don't have access to the most profitable system in the country. It counts with one normal policy, what's more, the telecommunications systems and all those services that are above the sky of Serbia, that we're not talking about flight control now, because it's been privatized, look at what incomes are there and what funds have been collected for years, how they've been spent and what they pay for, and the sky is the capital of the state. We're losing about 100 kilometers of highways a year. That's why it came to order, that no one can be a billionaire in the state, and that mailman doesn't have shoes, but he goes with hollow shoes for half a year, and that post office made telecommunications, and the savings and everything. You know that in PTT, a certain group has been enriched through bonds and that somewhere that thief is the famous value of seven million euros, and that a long time has not ended the investigation, that some people are arrested and compensate for damages. So, some of the PTT officials came in and raised 10-15 million bonds at the cash registers at once. They brought bond bales and made big money. Therefore, there must be reforms in PTT and order through this agency, and you are the ones who control the agency and its work, you choose it and you replace it. We at the Ministry are the service that needs to comply with the law and bring it into order. Therefore, our intention is completely sincere and good, and let us do this together. Don't be angry if I made any remarks, but I can tell you that all the political options at least had one minister and participated in all this. I don't think they only had G17 and DSS, do they, and everyone else did.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11275	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a great shame we have no transmission today, because Serbian citizens could hear a flammable speech by Minister Ilic, as well as all his speeches were very flammable. Stop demagogy, let us work. Serbia needs work, Serbia needs to be built up, let us build Serbia and out of all these promises of construction, fix Vela Ilic one bridge on Ostrjanica, fix it well, last time I spoke, too bad it wasn't there, it's nicely fixed. That's when I said it, but I have to say it again, since it's here now. That's the 59th bridge, if we count the 58 that Mrkonjic fixed. When he repairs that railroad, next to this one on the Ossregnica, it's going to be 60 in total. However, Mrkonjic did it in six months, and Vela for half the term. Mr. Minister, stop with the demagogy, please, because you threw out such a demagogue steam and last time it was that donor dinner, I don't even know where you were going, when you promised that your ministry would separate 30 million dinars for Kosovo and Metohija. First of all, it's not the Ministry of your company. Secondly, it means Dinkic gave more than you need as a ministry, as soon as you can separate 30 million so coldly, and thirdly, the government, or government, should take care of the people in Kosovo and Metohija, and not give the generous minister away from the ministry 30 million and give them gifts. Will the ministry go to waste if you give it to me now? I'd like to know what your ministry's tender has won, where you've earned that 30 million, unless it's from the citizens of Serbia's coat of arms, or through the budget. I recognized when the minister spoke earlier about the billionaires, who had become rich at that time, thinking of the age of a bulldozer revolution, so you gentlemen from the SRS don't find yourself hurt or hit. He means the millionaires that came from the bulldozer revolution here. I suppose he means Karic. Mr. Minister, at a time when the minister of traffic and connections, Mr. Dragan Todorovic of the SRS led the ministry, Karic had so much to do with the post office his factory in Vitomirica near Peća – for which he received a loan for Serbia's rebirth from Slobodan Milosevic, 75 factories were to be made – the only factory he made, that's the post office, then she worked. It hasn't worked in a few years, so it doesn't have anything to do with us. There was no millionaire at the time. At that time, the inflow from abroad, which you're talking about, wasn't there. Billions came to you, waiting for October 6th in Segedin, trucks were ordered, only to pass the revolution's bulldozer, so that many billions of euros could enter Serbia and raise Serbia. They're stories before and right after the Bulldozer Revolution. Another question about cable TV. How can you criticize Sorosch? He supported you for nine years until you came to power and now you're attacking a man. Let's get back to what we need to talk about today. This is another one, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the law of those laws that are made for a window, for a stand, for a minister's bookcase, a law that in good work cannot be applied. Secondly, it took so much mail to surprise me that at the time of Milos Obrenovic, Tatars carried mail from Stambol to Belgrade on horses and did not have such a law. Mr. Minister, you must know very well, if you are a minister, four ministries have grouped into one of the ministries you run, which means post office and the most distant village. One of the Members of Parliament said under Golia, under the Kopalnik, under Jastrepec, under many other places, and in my Kulina, the post office is the center of gathering citizens, where everything happens in the post office, where people come to the post office and to the newspaper, and wait for the letter from the dears to come to them. I don't know, this agency if it doesn't fix the situation, how people are going to do it in the future. Mr. Minister, very clearly, unequivocally you said... I know a reporter you went to like that, so he's a screw-up. You know, when Mr. Secretary gets up like this, I've been watching newscaster television on some new-Sad TV, the minister gets up like this, so when he pulls him around, it's better to keep himself safe. What almost all SRS lawmakers are criticising in this law is the agency, another agency you form, another opening of bureaucratic places, several hundred more places in large posts, in large postal centres and several more thousands of unproductive places across Serbia, which will fall on the burden of Serbian citizens. It is said that the agency self-financed by taking 25% of the mail, and the mail to live will have to increase the price of postal service and pay in the end line whoever uses the service of that post office. I'm sorry, we don't have time to discuss this law anymore, but the time of the SRS is coming. A lot of things in this law need to be changed. If we succeed in these amendments, which we have tried at least somewhat to bring the law into order, well; and if we fail, the SRS will certainly not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11277	The word of the Messenger of the people is Zoran Antić, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11278	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after Mr. Momir Markovic, it's really hard to say something. That energy he has rarely any of us. However, let me say, as far as this law is concerned, a lot has already been said. The basic reason for this law is, no doubt, the abolition of the monopoly, and all that stands. Market competition is what should live in the post office and undoubtedly SRS MPs want and seek these amendments and amendments that have proposed to bring the quality and price of postal services into some normal state, to make it more accessible to the citizens of Serbia, and I hope you do not doubt that. However, it seems to me that the proposalant's wish will not be answered so quickly. I don't think the country is in such a situation, nor that this market is so large, nor is it financially strong that it can possibly interest any of the public operators that would compete with a public operator at the state level, and that for another time we won't have that real competition that could possibly lead to a lower price and an increase in competition itself. I think the law has a lot of uncertainty and, from what my colleagues haven't said or at least I haven't heard, I've recognized something in Article 11 and Article 18. These are provisions that do not match the proposals' views to fight the monopoly. In particular, in Article 11, we have the possibility for a public postal operator to enter into contracts with potentially new operators, where it offers a postal network, technical and technological solutions, a database, and it seems to me to be one of the major shortcomings of this law, because we were to regulate property, public, state property, property of public interest for all future operators, and to base this competition, which we want, at the very beginning. I also believe that this member is indeterminate and that the right to negotiate or rent infrastructure and the postal network should belong to this agency, if you have already formed it. It was supposed to control and she was the only one who could possibly disable a monopoly that would in any case come forward, because a public postal operator would take advantage of that privilege to own the infrastructure and impose a contract that would put this other operator in a more unfavourable market position. As for Article 18, I don't think you fully respected the possibility that the agency would also share the delivery areas of the postal network units. Leaving it to a public postal operator means that we don't possibly get the quality of the service we've advocated by proposing this law. I believe that these jobs, since they are of public importance, are of importance to every citizen, because they regulate how many times a postman will possibly knock on our door, whether it will be daily, twice a week and only once a week. So I think these are extremely sensitive questions. There, the agency was supposed to regulate these issues and that users had one quality as we as a society at this time could provide them with regard to financial opportunities. I'd just like to say a few words about the agency. I would totally agree with my colleagues that all the jobs could have been done by the ministry that was responsible and in charge of these affairs, that we had received one unnecessary institution. I hope you take care of, I mean, the agency, the future and all the people who are in specialized school, so at PTT school qualified for these jobs. They are, under the circumstances, in a situation that depends on the post office and a possible reduction in the number of jobs will hit them quite well. I hope that when giving licenses, the agency will also require that this new infrastructure be staffed and that all the experts leaving that school find themselves a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11279	Thank you. The People's Messenger Gačević has the word; let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Pantyhose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this postal service law has many serious shortcomings and contradictions. For example, Article 12 states that postal services are provided under "equal conditions for all users, without discrimination". We totally agree with that. However, in Art. In 18 and 33, the classification of postal shipments is made, according to the delivery areas, into the rope, wider and wider delivery area, which in a very perfiduous way is discrimination against citizens in less important, important, those who have less or more rights to information and those who live in the city and the village. So, according to all the structures, there is a discrimination of citizens, which is illegal. The Serbian Radical Party disagrees with such a classification. This narrow area is certainly recognizable as the city area, where postal services are performed daily. As far as this area is concerned, which is marked as being wider, it would be approximately appropriate for the suburban area, where it is foreseen that at least twice a week the delivery, which is the fastest area, is the rural area, which is irrelevant or irrelevant, as it is classified here in this law, and only once a week there is mail. Regardless of economic interests, postal services must be equally accessible to all citizens and the state should have authority over the post office, as well as control, and be full responsibility within the frameworks of the state. In addition, if the post office has losses in one of the widest areas, let it make up for the accumulation of these two types, i.e. areas, spread and rope. Today, times passed when the bus and mail were synonyms, when mail was delivered by bus. It was 40 or 30 years ago, like in "Dekni", when the son left on the bus, it was said "he went by post", and it was waiting for the delivery of mail by bus. The mail has its own delivery means. Therefore, the following means should be used to deliver mail in all areas, to the widest and the area where mail is scheduled to be delivered once a week. What is this information, or news, that comes after a week from the moment of the event? That's a long time ago bygones. There must be no discrimination in this area. As far as the agency is concerned, the Serbian Radical Party is not against it just because the agencies have become disgusting to Serbian citizens through privatisations and other cases. There they became hated and unpopular, as many injustices at the expense of workers and Serbian citizens are happening right through these agencies. For one very important, essential reason is unnecessary, which is inserted as one of the Synduscan uduras, to create and multiply administrations through it. And on the other hand, through this interpolation of some responsibility and such an organization, the organisation is becoming very tense, where a more and more memorial and opportunity for malfeasance, for machinations, for money laundering, as the minister said earlier, is being given to finance individual campaigns. That's exactly what we're aware of. Practice confirmed it. On the other hand, responsibility is diversified through this kind of organization, according to that people's, "pop student, student churchboy," there's nothing from work. In this way, it creates an advantage for very unwanted actions, such as crime, corruption and other actions that this government needs to fight. I'd like to mention a few more things that seem irrelevant at first sight, but they're very important. For example, Articles 3, 13 and 19 used the term "sort of postal shipments". I don't know where this expression came from. When you say sorting, you mean sorting by quality, by class. When someone says "sort," it means "class." This is not about classing, it's not about class, it's about the typical sorting of postal shipments on packages, the letters of value, the letters recommended and the destinations, so where a certain shipment goes. Therefore, the term "sort" should be replaced by the term "classification". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11281	Thank you, Mr. Pantyhose. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11282	Having resolved the issue of the International Monetary Fund, it will surely survive, after the minister has left, since it is more important there. President, you'd have to take a look at the stenogram if you had time. It is unacceptable for the minister to say, "Unfortunately, there are people's MPs," as it would probably not be good to use the word in front of the name of a minister. But, well, it's a matter of culture. I think it's high time we used this item of the agenda to inform the MPs and the public and simply invite the MPs to bear in mind that this constitution, no matter what it is, obliges us. In the first place, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are bound. Our constitution states that the Republic has the right and the duty to regulate the functioning of a single technical and technological system and that it is obliged to ensure the functioning of this system. Postal traffic is certainly one of the areas in the exclusive jurisdiction of the state. We have one inherited system to deal with, first of all, the public enterprise established by the state. The existing constitution knows about the category of transmission so-called public powers from a state whose affairs are public enterprises which it has purposely formed for the exercise, in particular, of professional and then of other matters which are within the jurisdiction of the State. I draw attention to the fact that mail as a single universal system has some rules of business. These are, above all, these technical norms and standards, and probably the EU needs to unify its directives in that area of the European Union and something else, perhaps organisation and way of doing business. And I have to draw attention to that there are always appropriate reserves and there are always appropriate reserves, and if I can use that word, the corresponding luft that allows a particular country to choose how it will meet those standards that apply in Europe. I want to point out that there is no uniform form attributed from state to state. It also points to the practical situation, not only when it comes to postal traffic, and when it comes to other areas where there is a difference between German legislation and EU rules. There is a difference between French legislation and EU rules in other areas. It is this natural luft, a natural space that allows and is given to certain countries a certain opportunity to adapt it to their conditions and needs. This bill of law is the wrong way to get us there. It is the wrong way to look at what is stated in Article 66. It's a bill of law. Paragraph 3 states: "The Agency shall carry out the tasks referred to in points (1) to (2) of Article 1 of this Article as entrusted tasks. "Trust jobs are the affairs of the state administration entrusted by the state authority, the authority of the state administration, which is, above all, the ministry. Item 3 says the ministry has singled out these 12 points and entrusted the agency from its corps obligations, jobs and rights. It's about jobs that can't be trusted. The existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows the establishment of agencies and institutions to be transferred to certain professional affairs that the state should do, and rarely and exceptionally sometimes, to be entrusted with transactions that have been completed with the administrative procedure, where it is directly decided on the rights and duties of those who report to the Directorate or the Office. So it's a missing topic. It's not a missed theme just about the title, it's basically missing. There's something that can't be transferred by the state. The story of an independent regulatory body is something that is completely unacceptable from the view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We already have bitter experience with these independent regulatory bodies. We've been struggling for three years with the advice of a broadcasting agency. It's a similar situation with the telecommunications advice. The same situation will be with this agency. Why we're passing a law that we know in the beginning that can't be applied. Why in this way and in this area we demonstrate something that is very dangerous for our country. It's an atomization of state jurisdiction. It's not decentralisation, it's allocation problems. If the problem in the ministry is unable to carry out these tasks, is it possible that the agency will do those jobs? If there's a problem of bribery and corruption in a state body, which is our guarantee that it won't be in this para-state body. The very fact that we have changed the law or that we have made certain provisions that choose board members of that agency is not a guarantee. You have formed a Council to fight corruption; what are the scope of this council, which are the effects of this council. Corruption exists if no more, then almost at the same percentage as there has been in this country for 15 years. The spilling from the hollow to the void didn't yield any results. They're not gonna score here either. Furthermore, if these are reform laws, then I really don't understand why in Article 3, in certain points, and start from 17), 18) and 19), it gives the notion of something that is regulated in the Law on Electronic Signature. Is it possible that the definition of a wall in one law should differ from the definition of a wall in another law? The wall is a wall. The electronic signature is probably a term set out in the Law on Electronic Signature, so there is no need to prescribe or amend, or especially to stand out in this law, and what that term should mean in this law. Then, when you break the whole law, it's almost like that word doesn't even show up anymore. This atomisation of the state government is dangerous with this ministry, which has been resolutely in charge of this area, and it is catastrophic, because there are essentially several ministries in one place, and if it starts with this dislocation of jurisdiction and trust to some para-state authorities, then we will eventually see that we will have a ministry that has no jurisdiction. That's the danger. Someone can also write a whole lab about it being dangerous if it stands in the ministry as a jurisdiction, because there is a danger of political monopoly. I don't see what the guarantee is that this political monopoly won't be in the agency. It's another example of broadcasting advice. It is precisely known among those members who represent B92, BK and other TV. It's true. Even one of the creators of the text of the bill was elected member of the broadcasting agency, so he had to resign because his daughter turned out to be working in some media, which was explicitly banned by the law. If someone was talking about problems, it used to be heard, I don't know, centralization, etc., the source of all problems is Belgrade and it needs to increase autonomy. You had Chanka and he did the same thing there in another way, and perhaps even more dangerous. This atomization, division and capillaries of state jurisdiction, remember, are devastating for countries of this size, this number of inhabitants in this environment. How to interpret a reform regulation like what is stated in Article 69, only persons with relevant expertise can be chosen for the members of the Council, and when it says experience is certainly meant for years of work experience carried out in some field of postal service profession. What is the relevant experience, i.e. expertise, which is the relevant expertise in the field of postal services, and when you have lawyers, economists, engineers and other professions, and even geographers in the mail. What's appropriate? Who concludes what the legislator meant when he stated it properly. Furthermore, contradiction in the members themselves. Article 65(3) - the agency is an independent legal entity and is functionally independent. The whole number of members who follow is – with agreement, opinion, previous consent, previous opinion, consultations, etc. What is the view of this functional independence? They'll work on their own? They'll probably work on their own. I don't deliberately go into the division of services that are subject to service, and that will be the case when they are on the agenda of our amendments. I have to notice that some things are going wrong from the first member of this law. He says, "This law regulates the provision of postal services." First of all, I think it's an incorrect name of this law, it needs to be about postal traffic, not services, because traffic makes up a series of activities that have been going on since the shipment started until it received the one to which it was directed. The unity of a technical system needs to be seen, and yet that mail is a technical system, even in the form in which we most often view mail - as writers. It's arranged to perform. If it is an economic activity, and it should be a unique technological system, then both the conditions and the way in which it works are arranged. You've consciously wrapped this into one obland -- "it's done" to cover up the essence behind these new concepts, which I have to say, new concepts that define postal services and all the jobs that need to be done by mail under this law. So I believe that this bill should be withdrawn, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must come up with one concept that it thinks it organises public authority, not only in terms of form and calls the organisational form to which these jobs would be entrusted, but above all in what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the uniform functioning of such a system. In order not to remain unscheduled, so that someone does not misread that this is how the monopoly is pleaded for the benefit of the state and its public enterprises, I have to tell you that it is something that can be called a natural monopoly, not just for the sake of activity, perhaps at this point much more because of the inherited state. That's where you should be careful. The part that rightly potentiates the MPs of the SRS, the so-called SRS. property and property, not even touched by this bill, because someone believes that at least two regulations regulate it: the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia. Notwithstanding the fact that these two laws accurately regulate the organisation and functioning of public undertakings and state property regimes, this law had to contain appropriate specific provisions to regulate this transitional situation. I hope that on the occasion of the amendment, we will have the opportunity to point out a little more seriously why this law should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-24-0.u11283	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Resume session will be tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. The first one will talk about the amendment to the First People's MP, Verice Radet.
