ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15087	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 132 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić and Boris Karaičić. We move on to a joint principled search of the 11th and 12th points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY OF THE GOVERNMENT The First National MP to have the word is Ljiljana Nestorović, and let the MP Boško Ristic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, it is certainly good for the state administration to be depolitised as much as possible and it is good that it, from the mere exercise of power, is essentially gradually becoming a public service, so that the daily life of citizens becomes more bearable first of all. In essence, SDP MPs support the adoption of a new law on state administration, but we have made objections to certain provisions set out in the draft law. Of course, we will talk about this when it comes to amendments of the MPs to this law. What does our state administration look like today? I think she looks better than she looked before. That's because there's been a reform of the state administration for several years. State officials are passing, as is known, professional training, learning the experiences of developed countries, foreign languages, using automated databases and it actually goes to one natural time, as only can happen. However, when we talk about the state administration, there is no way around a topic such as the regulation on reducing employees in the state administration, except the MUP, by 10 per cent by mid-June this year. I don't think this is accurate, because if we take into account that more than 50% of people are employed in the MUP alone, then we can say that this level of employee cuts is going to be around 5%. The government points out that this is an IMF request and requires that public spending be reduced. Minister Lončar believes that the reduction is justified due to the process of decentralisation of state administration, depoliticalisation and information training. I also have to say that the story of decentralisation, as things are now, is quite dishonest. In fact, I think we're terribly late for the decentralisation process, because I can remind you that we're the only country in Europe where local self-government has no property. A law on public enterprises is also being prepared, where the government's intensities to even take away the right to manage public enterprises founded by local self-government authorities. However, if we accept that such a decision has been made for these reasons, we cannot help but point out that it has been made without real, real analysis and, what I fear, is that it will actually be just a mere replacement of so far's personnel. I think in a hurry, and yet again, in the principle of negative selection, one will be fired and another people will be brought back on the party line. It can be a process that, in any change of government, there really is no end. I don't think the state administration should be protected against the economy. I know that at the moment the decision to cut state administration sounds very good in the people, because in the economy, a large number of people are out of work and out of work every day. We don't like state administration, because we have bad associations of unkindness, cruelty, limitedness, one word of bureaucracy. But that does not mean that for such a administration or administration that is no longer such a solution should be sought in technological surpluses. In fact, technological surpluses are the simplest but worst solution. The affairs of the state administration are becoming more and more numerous because, firstly, domestic legislation must be in line with European legislation. No new law can be handed over to the government without a signed statement by the Minister of Harmony, which means that the drafting of each law must be accompanied by a previous comparative analysis of European legislation and other EU rules. Another major obligation is to analyse the effects of the regulations for each law and to explain the need for individual applicable laws to remain in force without change. The government adopted the process as early as November 2004. Thirdly, the new job for all state authorities is to comply with the new law on the availability of information of public importance, which requires special training from civil servants. So the real situation is that the government actually has no surpluses. As an example, I will give you a contest a few days ago, according to which the Ministry of State Administration and the Ministry of Finance are receiving new people, and the Ministry of State Administration has announced an ad for two jobs in the Secretariat with a secondary school, and the Ministry of Finance is competing for about a hundred seats in the tax administration, of which 30 seats in Belgrade. Yesterday, the Ministry of Culture also announced a three-job competition. What I think: spending and restoring management can be very useful, but in one organisation of work where all jobs are properly and fully defined, and where exactly who is doing what and who is responsible. Only in such a system can it be known whether there are or no surpluses and who actually represents a real surplus. But it's not like that in the state administration. State officials are changing, they are exactly political functions, but these people often without the practice and the necessary knowledge and organize the work of the administration. Only a small number of people in a good work organisation don't know and won't work. The problem, I repeat, is that the affairs of the state administration often run by people without experience, including the necessary intelligence that can replace this lack of experience. The production of new technological surpluses is only a greater number of social cases. It's not a big social danger. As we know, it's neither Colubara nor Kragujevac, but it's certainly not good. These people will lose their jobs, although they claim not to, but I'm pretty sure they won't be allowed to work in agencies that will be established under the law we recently passed. Finally, again, my impression is that both in the economy and in the state administration, a little work is being done on the organisation of the work and to check whether the manager is aware and able to organise the work process and to increase the productivity of this work. The key to everything is that, and that's not what you're talking about. Technological surpluses are the path of less resistance. Anyone can do that and anyone can do that. It is easier to define not particularly smart criteria and make a list for technological surpluses, someone to make daily work plans, organize and monitor this work and increase productivity. This may result in the need to declare excess, but it is quite another time compared to how it is mainly done today. Today, there are a lot of abuses in this business, a quota is being met, and people are finding it more difficult, as an injustice, to ignore any individuality. So, once again, the principle of negative selection of this law will be difficult to prevent, first of all, that party personnel are still being set up, I mean functions in this country that should be professional, and then we could say that it's an honest approach to this law if we now fire all ministerial assistants and, based on public competition, hire new ones, which we can't just replace. Also, the reason for the negative selection is very low wages, because hardly even a good expert, who has an alternative, will remain to work in the state administration, if it works for 10,000 or 15,000 dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15089	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15090	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Secretary of Law, the DS considers the proposed laws on government and state administration to be not properly governed by the area they are dealing with. And above all, the government law, in my personal understanding, and the understanding of the DS, is an attempt for the state to become party, for the system institutions to be fully controlled by party authorities of the current ruling coalition. This comes from the spirit and meaning of the laws and solutions offered, above all the government law, and the guarantee that such a state of the party state will be preserved in the future finds its solutions precisely in the state administration law. Based on what solutions does this result? First of all, the government law tries to enter into something that is constitutional matter, to position the government in relation to the legislative and judicial authority, and also to the president of the state if it is to be resolved by a set of laws, to define first and foremost the position of the National Assembly, as legislative authorities and as the authorities that exercise control over the work of the government and the implementation of the policy, which was given her confidence most of the time in her election. The government's attitude towards parliament is such that the government dominates parliament, that the government is not responsible for parliament and that it is not obliged to submit certain documents, certain acts, certain decisions, but that this law can do so only at the request of the polling committee. You will allow me to believe that in this way it is the Government that regulates the Assembly in which it will be addressed and how it will demand its responsibility. In this proposal for a Government Act, the Assembly is represented only by the congregation majority and is not seen as an institution in respect of its committees, as regards its bodies, which it regulates by its own acts. This is contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it is governed by resolution committees dealing with individual ministries, implementing policies in certain areas, and has been responsible for certain ministries. But such a law denies the possibility that congregation committees directly require the Government to submit a report to them, accounts from areas for which the Assembly and competent committees have formed. The government's attitude towards the president of the state is placed only in one norm, where the government is obliged to take the position immediately upon its request, to take the speaker of the assembly on that position, but the government has not left itself a deadline and there is no responsibility if the government defies the president's request to take a stand. So it's not armed and there's no sanctions. Also, the idea of decentralisation, which is a lot of talk here, the idea of the government getting closer to the citizens, of approaching the possibility of deciding exactly what decisions the authorities are dealing with, is completely unthinkable through the government law. Namely, where do you see it? The government has the possibility to suspend, on the basis of different laws, even under the government law, from the temporary enforcement of the law of local self-government if it considers that they are opposed to the constitution, but at the same time it is obliged to launch an initiative to assess constitutionality and legality. However, this opens up the possibility of major volunteerism and the possibility that the government, by suspending individual decisions, will affect and pressure local self-government. Why would I think that? It is precisely because the Government does not have any responsibility if it suspends the execution of a single act and initiates an assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court rejects such a request for an assessment of constitutionality. Therefore, the government does not bear any responsibility, nor political responsibility, if for no reason it puts pressure on local self-government, by suspending their acts and by affecting the implementation of policies, and these acts are based. The government has to be much more responsible, it has to account for someone, it's got to be public. The proposed government law says that the work of the government and the way the government works will be brought by the Rules of Procedure, that everything under this law will be resolved by the Rules of Procedure and such information that is of public importance by the Government has no obligation to provide the means of information. It is said somewhere in the bill that the rules of procedure will regulate the way the government communicates with the means of public information. The government's work must be transparent, it must be subject to criticism and everything the government does, except for particularly justified reasons, with special control mechanisms, can be temporarily hidden from the public only because of that and where such information can harm state or national interests. There must be another mechanism to control the government's work and under such circumstances. The most basic thing is that the Assembly always, at any moment, has the opportunity to see the work of the Government, and that the public by nature of things is informed on a timely basis of any information that is of public importance. There are no such obligations here. In this way, in the context of the state administration law, a new system of state administration is being set up, with the possibility that allegedly professional services are being laid down by law and that civil servants will have five years of guarantee and legal protection so that they cannot be removed from their positions of public authority. However, it is important that the first appointment of these most significant state officials is carried out by political power. The political will of a coalition now in power, with such a law, would come out with the first appointment of state officials, with them having, perhaps five years later, legal protection that they could not be changed for political reasons. The question arises, in principle, is it possible for someone who comes as an executive of a particular policy to have legal protection that the next political set cannot replace and change it, in line with the current policy for which it has received the support of this parliament. I believe that one such solution, without additional regulations that guarantee the choice of a public-functioning professional, cannot give a positive effect. On the contrary, I believe that this is the basis for state control, i.e. for party control over the state administration, and that it provides this government, unless it gets citizens' trust and if it falls, that significant parts of this government through the state administration, and also, let's say, through the judiciary, remain unchanged for many years. So this government provides the continuity of its ideology, its policies through these laws and when it loses confidence in parliament or if it loses citizens' trust. This is very much needed by the particular government, especially because the government has lost citizens' trust. All research shows that the majority's relationship in parliament formally supports this government and the majority of citizens' relationship to this government is not identical. Most Serbian citizens do not support this government, disagrees with its policy and believes the government's effects are insufficient, and have failed to meet expectations based on promises that candidates for the prime minister and candidates for ministers and coalitions have given the election campaign. I don't think that this government has the right to through the law provide support or survival on the political scene and its political influence on social, political, economic and other movements in the country, which is precisely why extended civil authorities feel through state institutions, through the state administration, will receive a guarantee of legal protection because of the change in political or policy change that citizens have given confidence. I believe that the full centralisation of the state government is carried out if a bill of this kind is adopted, because I believe that with a set of other laws giving authority to this government, or any government in this way, with the legal support it would have in the future under this law, the government would have uncontrollable and large powers. This shows, for example, the proposed competition law. The minister has very high powers in terms of competition and conditions of market economy, and with this government law, along with the law on state administration, as proposed, it ensures that the minister can be completely uncontrollable and without the influence of parliament to adopt sublegal acts and regulate the rules of conduct that are currently preventing competition and provide a monopoly position for those who are currently close to the current government. All of this, along with the fact that in other branches of government, the ruling coalition appears dominantly, along with mutual political agreements on government support, with settlements for individual functions, such as the choice of judicial holders in the past period and the current election of the president of the courts, for example from yesterday's High Council of Justice, suggests that there is a political agreement on the impact on all branches of the government. This government through its participation, for example in the High Council of Justice, through the minister of justice, through the funding that is fully in the judiciary in the hands of the minister of justice, through the instruments of the government that the government wants to attach to the law on the government, according to the law on the state administration proposed here, fully controls all the instruments of power, force, coercion and can be placed above parliament, above the judiciary and above the president of the state. He can do anything by this government. Someone also says it's a state of emergency. So this government can do anything without any control. Those who know the relations between individual branches see and know the full and direct influence of the executive authority on legislative and judicial authority. The latest example of the termination of the Labour Act has shown how much executive power can directly affect the behaviour and position of parliament. The executive authority has managed to break through a revised, forged legal project and adopt it as a law, as a work and product of the legislative body, this assembly. That shouldn't be possible. Mechanisms of mutual responsibility and control must be found. These laws do not provide this, but therefore provide full protection to party listeners, party public officials, that in five years they will not be able to move from public office, and if the government loses trust in the meantime, and if early elections are made for parliament and for the election of a new government. The Democratic Party believes that the proposed laws without proposed amendments, primarily the Democratic Party, will not be a guarantee of the division of power and there will be no guarantee and instrument for control of the government's work in accordance with the constitution, which provides the Assembly and the public with a guarantee that they control the government's work on all decisions relating to the essential issues of Serbian citizens. I therefore believe that, above all, the Law on the National Assembly should define its position in accordance with the Constitution, and only then pass the Government Act. The Government Act, which has been offered here, takes certain powers to the National Assembly, so let's say that the Government has an obligation to deliver certain documents to the Assembly, which it has under the Constitution and on the basis of its Rules of Procedure, only at the request of the polling board. So, I propose that the Parliament vote against the government law, against the state administration law, in order to prevent a major project of setting up a party state and the impact of the summit on this government's most influential party, this coalition, the state government and the functioning of the state itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15091	The word is made by MP Milisav Petronijevic and then by the head of the SRS parliamentary club Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15092	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the position on the draft law on government and the draft law on state administration of the SPS group yesterday in the afternoon was presented by Dr. Zarko Obradovic and I would not like to repeat it. In short, with the support of the adoption of these two laws, he also issued warnings from our parliamentary group, fears, and raised questions to which we are asking for an answer from the minister. I'd just like to add a few sentences, looking at one and the other laws, just from one angle. When it comes to the government law, I came from the first and the basic objective that the promoter stated in the explanation, which is that clearer offices are related to the National Assembly and the Government, of course with the second one that we support and support that the government regulates and organises itself in the best possible way. From that angle I will speak, the corner of the government's relationship with the Assembly. The draft law clearly defines the government's proposing function. So the government proposes laws, other general acts, the Assembly adopts them, and then again clearly defined the government's role in law enforcement. These are its basics, along with the implementation of policies, limited by the Constitution and law, jurisdiction. What's not clear enough and what are we warning the government about? It is not clearly foreseen by the bill to use the term, the reporting function, how laws are executed, how policies are implemented, what is the situation in all areas of government responsibility. Why do I say that? In Article 36. The proposal for a government law states that the government submits a report to the National Assembly on work together with the submission of a proposal for a final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. At first glance, it is logical and there would be no problems, but what is not logical and why this provision is causing great fear, suspicion, and direct and political consequences? It is clear that the report is submitted together with the final account, but it is not clear when the final account is submitted, i.e. the Budgetary System Act, it is also clear when the final account is submitted. But beyond that, it follows that auditors are needed, a whole range of other actions are needed. In other words, there's no final bill. I would like to remind you that the previous government, the Doss Government, has not submitted any final accounts to the Assembly, nor has the Assembly considered any final accounts. I want to warn this government not to allow the same situation, because it's already May, so we don't get into a situation where there's no final account. For that previous government, I know, I'm sure she shouldn't have submitted the final bill for the huge crime that was in the budget spending. I understand that. I don't understand this government why it didn't, when it was committed, all those final accounts, to see exactly the line, that Serbia would know that all these funds were spent, where they went, etc. I think it's one huge minus and this government, which is how it protects those who, in the way it's already been, spent all those funds, you don't know where. That's why we're questioning this provision. I think the government should submit a regular and orderly report on the work, the situation in the areas for which it is responsible, in policy implementation, and this should be a normal function and normal relationship between the government and the Assembly, that the Government submits to the Assembly the report, that the Assembly is also thus in control of the government's work, in addition to those envisaged. However, the Assembly also carries part of the responsibility, she is not trying hard enough to carry out her control function towards the government. The debate on the report, the talks, the determination of relations and criticism towards the government does not mean the collapse of the government, but also means a warning and a requirement of what to do. In addition to the lack of legislation on the National Assembly, which should also be parallel to the Government Bill's proposal, to consider, this is one major flaw and we expect the government to do that part of the job, according to its promises. Part two, very short, regarding the draft law on state administration. I will start with the basic objectives that this government, with our support, has adopted in the reform of the state administration: decentralisation, depoliticalisation, professionalisation, rationalisation and modernisation. Of course, they're not just goals. The goal is, as we ask, to be effective, to be in the service of the citizens, to be cheap for the citizens, not to cost much, to have the profession and knowledge as priorities in terms of political belonging and loyalty. Short to get over it. The decentralisation is seen from this institutional framework, which is given by this law on state administration, and deconcentration. That's where we can agree. When it comes to depoliticisation, it only sees itself, no guarantees, and that's what we ask of the government -- additional guarantees, there's no in this law. It is clear that the political functions remain, besides the minister, Deputy Minister, that is, he is now the State Secretary; if it is so modern and necessary, I have no objection, but it is the same. There's no dilemma. Everything else, assistants, directors, etc. - is scheduled to be civil servants. But nothing else, we don't have any guarantees anymore. What the law says, because the government still chooses them on a proposal from the minister, is not at four, but at five years, is not enough guarantee, and we are looking for a guarantee that this goal is implemented by the end. There's not even a competition, although it's announced, it's not in this law. It's not even supposed to be civil servants, with proper experience, knowledge, etc. These are all shortcomings that we warn of and ask the government to implement this goal to the end. Of course, it's about that, and it's a matter of professionalization, that they're people who have their own career as a civil servant, that they're the ones who grew up to be able to run the relevant sectors. I'm asking for bail again? I ask for the simple reason that this Serbia is tired of talking about reforms, rationalisation, professionalisation, depoliticalisation, etc. I ask, knowing the current structure of the assistant minister. Will these ministerial assistants, who are minor members of the executive bodies of one party, have gone there, will they now become professional civil servants, with a state career, people who are acquaintances, people from professions, etc. The previous government assured us that she was doing the opposite of that, enough for us to warn you that we don't want that kind of thing. We therefore once again warn you to answer how this procedure will be carried out when it comes to ministerial assistants, which is not provided for in this law. The lack of this law is that it did not go in parallel with the law on civil servants, where it could all, in a way, be matched and solved. When it comes to rationalization, just one more detail when it comes to professionalization and depoliticalization, all mouths are full of what they will until the moment they do so. We were just listening to a story about how this is a party state, etc. They're talking about those who continue where they're in power to run a party state. They talk about how they need to be professional, not political. What does that look like on one case? Here is an example, Vice-President of the Democratic Party, Mr. Bogdanovic, mayor of Belgrade, with the story of professionalisation and depoliticalisation, on a concrete case proposed to the Director of the Centre of Children's resorts of agricultural engineers, with all respect to the profession, but not to the institution, contrary to the Law on Child Protection. Of course, of all qualifications, his strongest qualification is that he is the founder of the local board of the Democratic Party, Jovan Cvijic, at the old Palilula. These are the specific stories of those who continue to talk about depoliticalisation and professionalization. For these reasons, we warn you, because we believe that you do not have the same intentions as that government, that you do not allow it. In such cases, we support both the law and the other, and this government to complete the reform. Finally, I will repeat, the rationalisation was discussed yesterday by Dr. Zarko Obradovic very closely. Once again, we warn you, it is necessary, as the result of this number of people just before the previous government, which before the federal state fell apart, before the officials moved to Serbia, increased the number from 8 to 11000. It was a reform for the previous government. And not to say that out of those 8,000, half of the professional people were driven away, and they brought those who had no profession, no years of work, no day at all. We warn you of the criteria, both general and special, and we warn you that these are the rules of profession, knowledge, and not politicalness and loyalty.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15093	Thank you. The word has the head of the SRS parliamentary club Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by the will of the President of the Assembly and your majority today, we are discussing the Bill of Government, and it seems a little cynical to me that we are discussing the bill submitted to us by the Government, which has been in vain for a month and a half, and we have been looking for a debate on trust. I guess we should figure out if this government is going to stay or not. If we form a new one, or if there is an election, we burden the days with a new government by law left by a government that no longer had the trust of the National Assembly. That's why I'd prefer it much more if we had discussed the government first, so we decided that the government enjoys trust, so we want her proposal for a government law to discuss, or she doesn't enjoy trust, and then we throw this away, someone won't want to be burdened by this law. If we are discussing and if there is a Minister for Local Self-Government, I would like to discuss these 160 fires almost bulging Serbia in any local self-government produced not by the minister, but by the Law on Local Self-Government. We also knew this before the local elections we proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, and to eliminate conflicts that would arise. You didn't pay attention to that. Now, Minister, I guarantee you eight hours a day answer phone calls from dissatisfied chosen people. The law allowed everyone in the municipality to be elected and everyone thinks they have the right to do whatever they want, and the minister has no instruments in his hands to prevent it. There have been two powers, three powers, coalitions being made, scattered; with the elected president of the municipality, the elected majority does not count on co-operation. They schedule sessions outside the Rules of Procedure, adopt the budget, elect the municipal council rather than the president of the municipality. We used to hang around here, sometimes we knew who the government and the opposition was, so the people resented us for conflicting and warring. Now you have a war in almost every local self-government, and it's a war between the people who have been chosen and who make up some majority. In local self-government, you now have a war between the majority, not a war between the majority and the minority, which is politically natural and logical, but a war between the majority. That is why I wish we had discussed it, that we had removed it and that the minister had submitted a new Bill on Local Self-Government or at least alterations and additions, and that we were involved in this, to help it be brought forward, so that Serbia would start working normally in local self-government, not from conflict to conflict. Now, what's here is, let's see in this bill what that's about what the bill is about. Looks like the IMF's setting us up with all the laws. Here, he said that pensioners must deprive 40% of the revenue they received from the budget and probably ordered how many workers in the state administration to be fired. And I understand that. Three changes in government since 2000 and each employed its own, sold all jobs and no longer have in some institutions a table to enter for which a worker will sit. It is, as the government has been coming since 2000, it has only filled the offices with workers, since the economy has been firing, since the state's federal administration has fired people and paid off their employment. Many have moved to the Republic Assembly, the government, local self - administration, not afraid that although they have been settled for at least a few years in advance, they immediately form a working relationship with the political party they belong to and are somewhere in power. So I'm going to see what the consequences of these two laws are going to produce. Before that, each discharge had a story of reforms, as in Serbia, reforms mean a reduction in the workforce. I'm very interested in how you're going to get involved in reducing the workforce and who's going to suffer the most. Let us go; Article 6 – The government oversees the constitutionality and legality of general acts of autonomous provinces, local self-government, etc. It was in the law so far, I thought you'd make a difference and be better, and when you didn't, then attack the law that's been in force so far, and you too why don't you change. This is actually a provision by which you interfere directly in the work of other congregations, in the general acts they bring and you can suspend them from execution, I would say forever. If you have a majority in the Constitutional Court and if the Constitutional Court is the way it is today, so let's say the SRS never responds to the objection that the state of emergency is unconstitutional, then you can do so, thanks to Article 2 which says that the suspension of execution will cease to apply if the government does not initiate the procedure for assessing constitutionality and legality within the next 15 days. Now you stop the general act, you initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, and it stands before the Constitutional Court for two or three years. The act has been suspended, you have disaved the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, the Assembly of Local Self-Government, their general acts, because you do not like them and because someone has given you the right to this law, which has only the Constitutional Court. You're a member of the 90s. The constitution said you could oversee the work of the ministries and special organizations, cancel or abolish their acts. Nowhere has the Constitution told you that you can suspend the execution of a general act or even that you can control the constitutionality and legality of general acts. This was necessary to stop, and it is always the story, there are some in power who do not think well or local self-government or Serbia, and we think well of Serbia, we are the Government, we will assess whether it is good for Serbia or not, so if it is not good for Serbia, we will simply ignore a general act that brings some assembly elected by citizens in collaboration with the Constitutional Court. I don't agree with this, and I don't think this can remain in the law - the composition of the government. Article 91(1) The constitution says the government is made up of presidents, vice presidents and ministers. The past law, and you continue to do so, introduces some kind of minister without a portfolio. If the Constitution says there are ministers, what do you need a special provision in ministers without portfolios? Maybe it's the blonde ministers, maybe it's the gay ministers, and that's what Europe's about to make you do, it's not introduced, they're ministers. If there is a minister with a portfolio, then this is a minister without a resort, he's a minister. And two words for the same term. You say, "Ministers who run resolutions and ministers without portfolios." What's a portfolio? Which would be difficult to say ministers without portfolios or for not saying portfolio ministers and ministers without portfolios. So, those who have the ministry, they're resolute, that the people understand. Those who do not have and whom, as the Prime Minister orders, are the portfolio ministers. Maybe they're even more important than those who have resors, because they're portfolios. Wasn't it enough to say: they make up the Prime Minister, one or more Deputy Prime Ministers, then ministers. You've got ministers like this, ministers like that, the minister from this party, the minister from that party, he won't be able to discuss the law. Article 12, which was defended yesterday almost as a new liquid, in fact more reflecting the current relations in the government that must be satisfied, would have to be amended or disappeared from this bill. Apparently, in the first two positions of the 12th, we get finally the Prime Minister. After all of our attacks on this government having more presidents, that every political party participating in the government has its own Prime Minister, the government tells us that the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government, taking care of the unity of the political functioning of the government. I am now asking him how the president said that we are not going to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and his public ministers represented the position to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija. And, as the Prime Minister will take care of the unity of the political functioning of six-seven parties in the government, each has its own political programme, each has its own ideology, and it does not have to agree with the ideology and the way the Prime Minister is acting. So then he says -- the Prime Minister can give the other members of the government mandatory instructions and special duties. He doesn't say – he gives government members mandatory instructions, but he says – he can give them. That means - he decides whether to give, and the minister decides whether to accept the responsibility. Because when you say the word -- it can, then you've opened up the coordination so wide between the Prime Minister and the Minister that it won't even exist. So then, I mean G17 plus, and that was little, but in attitude 3 says -- a member of the government can demand that the government decide whether or not the Prime Minister overstepped his powers. Well, this is terrible. Cardell wouldn't write this. When he introduced us there joint work and basic organisations of joint work, so he disrupted relations, and said that technocrats had taken over companies, workers had to manage themselves, and then they, like, had the right to decide whether or not the director had made a decision that was right or wrong, and now the minister could ask the government to declare whether the Prime Minister had exceeded his authority when he gave him a warrant. Well, does the house have a host? So, do any of you come from the house? Well, does the question arise when the housekeeper says what his family will do that morning? If a child asks a question or a member of the house says – wait until we vote whether this field should be plowed this morning, or if the plums are collected. This is just a reflection of the current relations in the government of the Republic of Serbia and what we are to be your hostages. What do we vote for these silly solutions? Well, imagine me being Prime Minister and asking the minister to vote the government whether I ordered him right or wrong, and to call me to the law. Will you find this Prime Minister? Will you find a serious man who cares for 10 million people, whom one minister with three MPs can ask a question of trust? But you've gone on. I'll get to those members, where anyone can get involved with the president's business. And they're relenting on each other's political structure. This is not clear to me, this is about the government's election, the first position of the 15th and fourth position of the 16th members. It says – the government is elected by the National Assembly after each constitution (this is a constitutional provision) on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, and when the government's mandate ceases, the new Government is elected by the same procedure as the Government is chosen after the establishment of the National Assembly. There may be another way to choose the government, so now this – if the mandate ceases, is chosen as after the constitution. Do we have any other provisions that then talk about some different way of choosing the government? The government is elected in a constitutional way, and whether it is after the constitution, whether because it has ceased its mandate, whether because the president resigned and stopped his mandate, whether because the people went to the streets, what does it matter what circumstances led to the government being elected. The government in Serbia is only chosen in one way. Now, the government's powers in Article 17, worry a little bit, this looks like "Sabbe's" action. So the government to which the term of office has ceased can only do current jobs. This is the first time that's been worked out, and I've been really often in a dilemma. We've had these so-called so-called. technical governments, I've often been in a dilemma, whether that government can propose a law or not. I think you can do it. You either have a government or you don't have one. Perhaps that government will be re-elected. Another one may be elected, but if everyone remains in office until the new one is elected, that mandate must be full. We don't have two types of government, a government that has a mandate and a government that doesn't have a mandate. There's no such thing in the world. And what if the need for law arises, and you know that since 1996, we haven't had a government elected since 1997, and we haven't had a Parliament elected for four months. There wasn't a lot of them. The SPO negotiated for four or five months, they didn't agree. We decided to enter the government in one night. Imagine – six months everything in Serbia stands. Europe goes five years ahead in six months, and we wait for a new government to be elected that can propose legislation. You have a Parliament to decide whether or not this law will be passed, and the government can't propose to her. Any MP can propose law, a number of citizens can propose, and not the government. But since you've already seen that it's not quite right, then you've added something that's for concern, and that's what it says -- that the government that's stopped the mandate can propose laws if they impose the needs of the state. Now you, mother's son, assess who it is now who's going to tell the government -- well, you're right, this is what the needs of the state require. The needs of the state are also for the president to equip his cabinet. All needs of the state. Don't, these are stories for little kids. Everyone in Serbia has been involved in politics for a long time. I think children are already born ready to be candidates somewhere. Don't drag us away. In the first position, you are clear and defined, and in the second you underline the broad possibility that that first attitude is unnecessary. Or, in the extension, he says – the interests of defence. Not to warn you that Serbia has no defence, that the Serbian government does not care about the defence, that it is done by the state community or the community of states, as who calls it. And the interesting thing is, now we're coming to it, the best worked out, is the government, which we're asking to discuss trust, is the best way to work out the non-trust provisions. And that's true, I have to admit, most of the members were working on it. You can tell it's thick. So, what they say, let this be made clear to the end as it will be. But why are you writing in article 18 of the provision that from the submission of the proposal to the vote of non-trust, it cannot go less than three or more days, when you know that more than 45 days have passed, and when this Article 18, paragraph 2, there is no criminal provision. Because what it means now - it can't go less than three days or more than 15 days. What if it's 16 days? Then what did the law say? Nothing. Done. The government is working, even proposing a government law. Now, that's why I'd like to put a little seriousness into the congregation's work, and I'm asking for it from the government's representatives and the ruling majority. Let's discuss serious matters. Now, there's a mix of intelligence here, and I don't know what this is to the government, especially a government that isn't in co-habitation. Article 20, the Prime Minister can resign, it's so raving, but come on, the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Republic. And what does the Prime Minister resign to the President of the Republic? What's their relationship? Did the President of the Republic choose him? Did the President of the Republic suggest it? He gave him a mandate? So, what? He had to give through the Constitution. Whoever shows up with 126 MPs gets a mandate, even from the performers. We had the perpetrators and the perpetrators. They gave mandates as you wish. What's he gonna do? Why is he sending the President of the Republic? Why isn't he sending MPs? Why isn't the SPC sending? Why isn't she sending Sana? Why isn't he sending the US embassy to Belgrade? There are so many more important places in Belgrade than the President of the Republic, I can list them for you now in half an hour. Further, to oust position 3, under which the Prime Minister can explain his resignation to the National Assembly. It has to be thrown out to honor the National Assembly. We don't want him to explain it to us here without us being able to discuss it. There is no proposal in the Assembly that there is no discussion. So, it can be determined by the president, so I'm asking you now -- is that the president of the assembly in voting day or when he opens a debate with 83-84 MPs, how many in the O.R.? It's not written here. Does the resignation stand before the assembly he chose mean a minimum of 126 MPs? Is the assembly that starts work at 11.15 or 11.20 every morning with 80 and some MPs relevant to note that the president has resigned, that he is estimating the resignation of the Prime Minister, or that it must be 126 MPs. I mean 126, but we don't have that in the Rules of Procedure. This article 22 disabling the National Assembly, heading 3, under which the Prime Minister submits a proposal to the National Assembly for the resolution of a particular minister. At that time, the Prime Minister removes him from office, determines the second minister to do his job, and this lasts again, not more than three days, not more than 15 days, within which time we have to sit down as a Assembly and discuss it. And who's the Prime Minister to get the minister elected by the National Assembly out of office? Who is he, when he can only tell him what he's going to do? He can't order him to do what he's going to do, and he can file a motion for his resolution, in which he says immediately, leave the premises, you'll be replaced by that and that minister. That's not how it works. What kind of a fight is it when the Prime Minister has to submit a motion for the minister's resolution and that minister's time to be removed from office, because it's a pest. What are you preparing for? You know what the government is? It's a set of people who think the same thing, do the same thing, work the same thing, have the same goal, same program. A set of people Serbia has the highest confidence in, in which the National Assembly has the highest confidence. He takes an oath here, and then the president says, well, you don't answer me, even though the Assembly has chosen you on my proposal, but now you can't do that duty. That's what the National Assembly can say. The minister ceases his term when the assembly finds that his term of office has ceased, not when the Prime Minister finds it, because the Prime Minister has neither determined his mandate. So, in a certain way, I am protecting ministers from G17 plus, not to be told one day by the Prime Minister - come on, get lost, now Djelic will come here, Vlahovic and these. Just so you know. That's how I protect you. I've ordered the end of my term to the Secretary-General's office. It's not clear. Okay, why does his term of office stop when the government's term of office ends? And what do we do in the meantime? We don't have a government, we don't have a government secretary, and we leave a state without all functions. Why are you tying up? You choose the secretary, you don't receive him in a working relationship. It's okay, it's his term of office, but he can't stop his mandate until he's elected new secretary general. Like anyone else, as an MP, as a minister, a new mandate, the old one stops. He's not the Secretary-General of the Government. Sometimes he's more influential, and he's not formal, but he's a member of the government. Don't tell me that Mihajlov didn't influence when Nikitovic influenced him, it can't be done and lived, until he gives consent, let alone Mihajlov. Don't talk to me. I guess the Prime Minister is surrounded by people who work, not people who just sit there. And this budget provision. The draft budget law is submitted to the National Assembly. That's what we have in the Budget Law, you don't have to rewrite the law, we know by the second law when you're obliged to send us a proposal. You have cast out the Messenger of the people as a man whom the people have chosen, and who can ask you for information. You've thrown out a parliamentary question since you've been in power, and before you have, while these have been. No president of the National Assembly has put parliamentary issues on the agenda, he has no idea. You don't answer, you don't come to sessions to ask questions, and now you've ruled out our right to contact you to ask you for information. You only want to give the information at the request of the board of inquiry. So what now? To form 1,000 survey committees. That's exactly what it says here. He says I don't read both attitudes, and Palalic doesn't read everything I ask of him. You read what is good for you, I read what is good for me. But here, I want to read you a second attitude. He says: "Concrete documents and documents The government and the authorities of the state administration must deliver to the National Assembly only at the request of the survey board. "So there is no co-operation with the MP. It was you in Berlin, so you didn't read this bill. The replica if it wasn't in Berlin, if it was, it's got no right. I'm only going to have one member of the state administration law to comment on, and that's Article 41. Let me just warn you of something that has become a mass phenomenon in Serbia with these management district chiefs, that I don't call you State Secretary, because it looks like a sinking frog to me. Well, it doesn't look like a horse or a frog, but the Kragujevac election was held. He won one candidate, so he was second-placed, then third-placed, fourth-placed, then five-placed. That pletoclassed man is now head of the county. That's what the government chooses from the district chief. Can you find me a bigger paradox for the county chief to be the man who was on the mayor's list the fifth, and if 1,000 people were running, it would be 990 and some. That's how much it's worth, that's how much it's worth to him, and the party that suggested it. Now he's head of the county. So, district chiefs, detached ministers to choose the National Assembly or the local community assembly. So let's predict, so let's make sure there's a man the citizens most want to be head of the county. Let it be the Assembly, let it be a referendum, let there be elections in the territory of the county, of the state district, of the administrative district that you propose, but you can't set up a man everyone laughs at, because he has no reputation, and now he's the captain. How do you know he's from G17, I didn't say that?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15095	For the replica or for the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15096	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15097	He's misread you, but you've caused a replica because you've been throwing it out of place. Here you go, but when you throw it out of place, you have to expect an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15098	Thank you, Chairman, for your remarks. It's true, I've been throwing it out of place. What was I throwing out of place? So I reacted when it came to whether the MP had the right to request information from the government of the Republic of Serbia, so Mr Tomislav Nikolic mentioned Article 39. He didn't say it was Article 39, but he did get to Article 39. The bill refers, so he said the Assembly's data could be sought exclusively through the polling committee in the future. However, that is not true, because attitude 1 says very clearly, so I am reading it (everyone reads what suits him, but it is necessary to read both: "The government and every member of it are obliged to deliver the reports and data needed to discuss issues related to the work of the Government or its member. "Thereafter, the data are one thing, and in the other position it speaks of concrete documents and documents of the government. The ministries sometimes conduct administrative procedures and concrete files can refer to individual cases. Imagine if 250 MPs could seek insight into the complete files of individual documents, individual documents concerning certain people. No, it just can't happen, there's not one serious state. The Committee of Auditors may discuss certain issues in question, if it goes into detail, may also discuss resolution committees, but the possibility of resolution committees has already been left in the first position of this member. So much for that. When it comes to other objections, which are given here to individual other solutions in the law, it is also about incomplete consideration of the provisions given here. I can assure you that this bill, which is here before us, is such a bill, and so it seems that if the SRS were in power tomorrow, it could be used by this law if it was adopted and fully suited to it. You know it could, but it doesn't matter. What you'll be against if you don't object to the government law when you're an opposition party. As for the trip to Berlin, I was head of a parliamentary group in Berlin, as head of my party delegation, there we held talks with a number of German state officials, and most of the talks were dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija. And what was our position, that was the position that was the common position of the state summit of Serbia, he agreed and his final observation was that there was no independent Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15099	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. Just a moment, please, when someone interprets a member to interpret it truthfully in the right sense as it says. For the sake of truth, in the right attitude, Mr Aligrudic writes - The government and each member of it are obliged to deliver to the National Assembly the report and the data needed to discuss issues related to the work of the Government or its member, and for the sake of personal informing MPs, there is no right. So if the MP wants to get personal information to find out some information from the government, it doesn't say he has a right here. So, if we're already interpreting it, we're interpreting it as it says. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15100	I will only object to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, for my dignity and dignity have been injured here with all your answers. You see, in this attitude 1, I mean Article 39, it is said: "The government and each member of it are obliged to deliver to the National Assembly the reports and data it needs to discuss issues related to the work of the government or its member. "The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 2, reads: "The National Assembly represents the President of the National Assembly. "That means, the government will be required only when the president of the National Assembly speaks to her to deliver reports and data, and only when the survey committee is addressed to her to deliver concrete acts and files, and that is Article 39, paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, and so we interpret it from the opposition. If you wanted otherwise, you could have written -- the government and every member of it are obliged to deliver to the MPs and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15101	Thank you. The People's Messenger Marko Krstin came forward, and then the People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15102	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I am pleased as an MP and as a lawyer that we have begun reforming the state administration. It may have been a different order, but I think the minister has promised one set of laws, including the general administrative procedure law, the law on civil servants, and the law on the National Assembly, the law on administrative disputes, and certain regulations governing certain issues, such as not only this regulation, where certain issues are regulated to reduce the administration, but also a regulation that would regulate office operations, which would regulate everything else, and all of this is in the interest of achieving citizens' rights. We are now attending a debate that is truly comprehensive and that comes from the fact that most citizens are in principle not familiar with what we are talking about here. We have these and these interpretations, some of the norms are read in part, some of them completely. Lawyers have different interpretations, but for the sake of the interest of our citizens who are following this transfer, some important issues should be clarified. As far as government law is concerned, I think he is in a comprehensive way regulating issues concerning the functioning of the government, that they are heading towards depoliticalisation of certain functions in the government, that this political influence is achieved to the level of the assistants, and from the level of helpers down on the basis of expertise. More specifically, the procedure for not trusting the government is being regulated, more specifically the government's and the National Assembly's relations. However, as the minister himself said, the government and the minister themselves are open to critical remarks, for our amendments, and we are ready to accept certain objections that have grounds. Starting from that, I could comment on some things, more like an observation, because the G17 Group of MPs will support this government. She is in the government and supports the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica. On the issue of property, I'd like to run for an interesting question, namely, why we're completely excluding the Assembly from having the property at hand. I think maybe it could be from the point of view of the right, so one simpler solution, that the Parliament powers the government in certain cases to dispose of the property, and I think that would be more appropriate to the Assembly. It's also an interesting question of the government's authority. That question has been opened here. I really think that the rule of Article 12 has fully settled the issue and that our misunderstanding is in fact a language misunderstanding. The Prime Minister leads, directs the government, and so that he can do so to the other members of the government, he can give mandatory instructions. I'm afraid that everyone who has read this norm has skipped this word mandatory, because it is mandatory that this means that it must be carried out and hence the obligations and attitude of the 3rd member. The concept of this law is such that it allows government members to discuss their rights and obligations within the government, which is very good and so the government is doing professionally, that there is no one's dictatorship in the government, not even the Prime Minister. I'm glad this government stands for this very concept, and it's perfectly acceptable to me. But on the other hand, there is this balance, where the Prime Minister, when he thinks he should, means not always, so he says he can give other members of the government mandatory instructions. So, he can't decide whether he wants to do something or not, it's quite clear, and some of these debaters who were simply the word "mandatory" skipped. Also, our attention has attracted the provision of Article 39, and it is related to the delivery of data to the National Assembly. And here we read the norm incompletely, which says: "The government and each member of it are obliged to deliver reports and data to the National Assembly that it needs to discuss issues related to the work of the government and its member. "So, I'm apostrophe - reports and data. It's already some material that's been processed by the government. Paragraph 2 states: "Concrete files and documents (means no reports and no data) The government and the authorities of the state administration must deliver only to the National Assembly at the request of the survey board. "I think we should also consider whether the survey board could have stronger power than this assembly, because I don't think it would. So, concrete writings and documents; this proposal could go and the government should give it, and in that sense I don't think that the norm is sufficiently elaborated and that the survey board itself may be one of those who have the right to do so, but the tide could always ask for it. So, about the government law that much. As far as the state administration law is concerned, I must also say to welcome the government's action on the development and reform strategy of the state administration, this government has adopted it, following a part of the strategy and action plan which, within four years, regulates exactly in time, by deadlines, when certain measures are to be implemented in the reform of the state administration. I must welcome the fact that it relies on the European administrative framework, which opens the direction towards open administration and good governance, and that in the end it removes one discrepancy, one illogical opinion, that citizens exist for the sake of the state, and not for the sake of the citizens. So we're going towards the state as a service of citizens and I support these efforts by the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the G17 plus, which is in that government. Furthermore, I believe that the new law on state administration, which we are now talking about, has new solutions that are very good, which have not received certain publicity, which I would point out. This is Article 14(3), which is a border between laws and sublegal acts and is very important for the work of this assembly. Therefore, taking administrative actions that reach into personal freedom and security, physical and psychological integrity, property and other human rights and freedoms, the authorities of the state administration must act directly under the law. This is a restriction of any self-will of the authority of the administration towards the citizens, and that is what in this law is a guarantee against abuse and willlessness. So, a citizen who finds himself in such a situation can always be called to a provision of the law, because if there is no provision of the law, the authorities cannot carry out any measure in the field of administrative law. And particularly, it is a member of this 16th law, where the ministries and special organisations are authorised to adopt only those regulations to which they are explicitly authorised by the law or by the government. In the earlier assembly of this congregation, in the earlier government, and before that, it was so-called. The regulation of law was very pronounced, so the regulations regulated issues reserved for the matter of the law. This law makes a difference and apostrophes that what is not regulated by law cannot be regulated by a regulation and by a lower power act, if it had to, according to the Constitution and in essence, be regulated by law, which is very significant. The provisions of Articles 39 to 45 are very important, where for the first time the status of the district is regulated as an institution, as the level at which certain powers are exercised. It is a very important provision of Article 45 of this Law, where the body manager is given the right to issue directives which explicitly regulate the way in which the administration bodies work and act, precisely in order to protect citizens' rights. There are also very important provisions of this law relating to internal control, which includes administrative supervision and other forms of supervision within the body, including even direct takeover and execution of certain administrative work. So, to protect the citizens from those authorities that don't do administrative work. The provisions of Article 78 are very important, which regulates the obligation to conduct a public debate when it comes to the preparation of laws which substantially amend a particular legal regime. Next, Article 79, where the approach and openness of the administration towards citizens to so-called. the administrative days outside the board’s seat, when the authority of the administration comes out of its seat and performs certain administrative tasks, such as the decision on administrative matters, inspection controls, etc. With all this in mind, the G17 Group of MPs plus will support these provisions of the law, given that we have submitted amendments to certain provisions, we believe that these amendments have their basis and the Government has accepted these amendments. I would like to apostrophe one amendment that has not been accepted, and I am running for the motion to accept it anyway. It is an amendment to Article 88(3) where at least a higher level of expertise is provided for in the performance of administrative tasks, i.e. in the management of the administrative procedure. The complexity of state administration affairs, particularly in the areas of construction, property and justice, status issues, almost all other areas require high school equipment to better and more adequate protection of citizens' rights. The state administration in the Republic of Serbia at the beginning of the XXI century should not rest on the staff capacity of the administration's authority from 20 or 30 years ago, when there were insufficient employees in the authorities with high school supplies, and there were no graduate lawyers, economists and the like. Of course, this is a relatively large procedure, and that is why I have provided for a transitional provision, according to which the issue would be regulated so that people who do not meet the conditions have five years to meet these conditions. The G17 Group of MPs will support the adoption of this law, believes that the law is on the European path and that it is going towards Serbia's integration into Europe as a whole.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15103	Mr. Peric, the First Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet, and then you, for the sake of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15104	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs from the assembly majority are probably aware of how bad these proposals for government and state administration laws are, and have therefore proposed and accepted that two serious and significant laws be governed by a united debate, in order to, of course, deny us the possibility of telling us everything we need to hear about both law and law. But, of course, we in the SRS have submitted a number of amendments and we will specifically talk about the laws through the interpretation of the amendments, and now just some basic remarks, i.e. views on these two proposals. I have to say that both proposals are made so that in practice they will be inapplicable. We said the same thing, Minister Loncar, when we were talking about local self-government. Because of the law, as the congregation majority has brought despite our warnings, there has been, you know, an excellent paralysing of the work of certain local self-governments. I assume you know about the problems, since I know you've been approached by these local self-governments, the New Blacks, the Young Man, the New Market. I don't know if you know what kind of conditions Surcin municipalities, newly formed municipalities, no buildings, no funds. I know, you're going to say that this is the responsibility of the city of Belgrade, but thanks to the law that we have, the city of Belgrade and the mayor of Belgrade have brought down serious municipalities and local self-government to local communities. These are the problems we talked about in our time, which we predicted, but you didn't take them seriously. So even now, when we talk about these two laws, we're talking about what's going to happen when these laws are harmonised, what is this going to mean specifically in the application of these laws. You said yesterday, Minister, that you were looking at the amendments, that the amendments were serious, to see a serious approach in these proposals, but it would be logical, if that were the case, to adopt key amendments and really make these laws at least something that looks like the law. Because, believe me, we never got laws like these. To use a term like that, we never got laws like these. How important they are, of course, to everyone it's clear, they regulate the functioning of the state, and if these laws aren't good, then what happens next to the other regulations. I suppose you know, although it is your jurisdiction, that Minister Dinkic is sending letters to local self-government these days, to warn them that they must reduce the number of employees, to threaten them if they do not do so to deny some financial resources. And they say in local self-government -- whether to listen to Dinkic, although it doesn't make sense to us, I guess this is what our resolute minister should meet us about. But, they say, as this Dinkic threatens, if we don't listen to him, maybe the next letter will send us Jocic, so he'll say, if we don't listen, he'll join a special in local self-government. Maybe they can shoot, that's their jurisdiction. Minister Loncar, I expect you to answer all these questions, because these are the questions that citizens ask, wherever we appear. They also ask such questions where DSS representatives are in power. I even heard the head of the general administration in such a municipality, which is a member of your party, says - I can't believe Minister Loncar did this, this must be some Dinkic nonsense, which Minister Loncar knows nothing about. You're about to say what you know about it. So these two draft laws on government and state administration are, as I said, the worst texts this Parliament has ever received, very inaccurate, stupid formulations, not at all in the spirit of our legal system, and I think you ministers, as a professor of law school, a man with experience, certainly you know that legal standards must be clear, precise, decadent, that there is no law to say that anything can be said. The law has to say that something is or isn't, it can't say the law can, so it leaves the possibility of anyone applying it whether it will or won't, and whether or not it will or won't -- it's a drastic difference. So, not to go any further, because I don't have enough time, given that colleagues from the SRS parliamentary group also want to talk about these laws, and we're going to talk about concrete remarks, and I'm going to talk about it myself when it comes to amendments. What is, therefore, essential, that I do not talk about concrete solutions that are truly catastrophic, these laws put the government in the first place, devising the work of parliament. You, Minister, said yesterday that these laws introduce depolitisation of state authorities. This doesn't mean that. This, instead of depoliticalization, means strengthening the party state. Does this mean that you will now set up all of your members of the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 plus, you have already set them up and no one can change anything after you, after some elections, the ministers will change, the governments will change, but everything stays the way you do while you are in power. It's not depoliticization and you, of course, know it well, but you have to meet some obligations. As far as I know you, your expertise and experience, I'm convinced that you haven't read at all, let alone written these laws, because I really don't believe that you would stand behind such bad texts of the law. However, you may not have had time, but it would be good, between two flights to The Hague, to read, before you stand by these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15105	The word is made by the People's MP Hranislav Peric, and let the MP Milovan Markovic from the DS be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15106	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have today's agenda law on state administration and government law. The president of the assembly put these points over the agenda. It would be good if President Markovic were here to hear this, but I prefer it when you, Mr. Angelkovic, run the Assembly. And we don't need him, we'll tell him, so he'll hear. Before these laws, there was a law in the procedure on the Assembly, so it was removed from the agenda. The president of the assembly was obliged to put Parliament's law on the agenda at the first next session, but that didn't happen. It is illogical for the Assembly to pass a law on state administration and government law, and so far it has not passed a law on the Assembly, which all countries have in Europe and the environment. How are we going to pass laws for others when we didn't do it in our own house? Because of all the advances I have made, I suggest that the government withdraw these laws from the agenda and put the first extraordinary session on the agenda in June first law on the Assembly, and then the government and state administration law. As for the state administration law, I'm afraid this law will not be applied in practice, as well as many other laws we've passed before. This is best seen in the Law of Conflict of Interest. Since the Minister for Local Self-Government was a proposer, he should today tell us that the Law on Conflict of Interest is being implemented in municipalities. Next question for the minister: how many new employees have been employed in local administration since when are you a minister? How many employees are employed in public enterprises that receive salaries from budgets in municipalities? What functions are paid in municipalities? What are the salaries of local officials? If you don't know, Minister, I can tell you. You and I understand, you don't have time to see everything, because you're constantly on the way to Belgrade-Hag, circulating stories across Serbia that you're the main guide for the delivery of Serbs to The Hague. Recently, the Serbian government has passed a regulation that will reduce 2,700 workers in the state administration and is said to be 10 per cent less workers in the state administration. If the government had any fair intentions, then they should use the right numbers. It is true that the state in the budget pays 229 thousand workers, plus 160 municipalities, if the average is 100 workers, then it is another 16 thousand, and if the average is 200, then it is plus 32,000 workers, plus employees in special services, organisations and professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and plus public enterprises. When it all comes together, it's about 300,000 people, and we want 10 percent to cut state administration by 2,700 workers. Since you all often use and say -- it's the previous regime's fault, it's fair to say that you brought out the data on how many state administrations in 2000 to 5 October, how many state administrations were counting since 2003 when DOS left power and how many workers are in the state administration today, how many workers worked in the economy by 2000, and how many are working in the economy today. That would be a real standard, and then we could talk. The Government Regulation is illegal and unconstitutional, because it is contrary to the Labour Relations Act, the Law on State Authorities, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Pension-Inhabitation, and the Labour Act, as well as the Constitution. The regulation provides for the violent distance of individual i.e. Unfavourable workers, either by sending S.I.E.L.D. for employment, whether early retirement, in order to later bring other people, younger workers, who are, in fact, more party-like. Why is the regulation not in conformity? Because the applicable laws are more orderly than the regulation and because the law, not the regulation, prescribes conditions for employment in the state administration, business capacity, citizenship, degree of expertise, professional examinations, etc. It's no surprise, and if I hadn't read this regulation, I knew this illegal regulation could only have been signed by Labus, because when it was hard, always Labus. All of these laws you are proposing can conclude that the state and local administration worked better with far fewer workers by 2000. Gentlemen of the government, you've made an assembly of state aids. This is what Serbian citizens can't stand to pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15107	I thank you, Mr. Perry. The word has a National MP, Milovan Markovic, and then a National MP, Branislav Nedimovic. Mr. Peric represents only the views of the SPS, nothing less than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15108	The President-in-Office, the honourable fellow MPs, the Bill on Government and the Proposal for a Law on State Administration cannot be supported by the Democratic Party in the proposed text. First of all, when it comes to the Bill of Government, we have submitted a number of amendments, if they are accepted, to the greatest extent possible to correct the text of this law. The proposal for a law on the state administration is so bad, and in the essential sense, both in language and in any other, vague, simply vague, that it would really be useful to return to serious doping, because it is not possible to correct it in some procedure by reacting to the amendments to its content. We also believe that it is not enough just to pass quality laws, unless we ourselves follow such laws and do what is the work of the authorities of the state administration and ministers as members of the government. Mr. Loncar, here the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government attends, is an example of a minister who, during the period of the constitution of the administration, I can freely say, is not in a sufficiently good way and has done his job sufficiently, and his ministry, anyway. He is head of the ministry and I will argue this with very clear examples when it comes to establishing a local assembly in the municipality of Valjevo. MPs of this assembly have indicated, saying this as their opinion, that procedural failures were made and illegalities committed in the procedure of the constitution, i.e. the election of SO Valjevo authorities at the session on 5 November. The ministry's final response was made in March, with the ministry's letter being filed on March 4th, and Valjevo arrived on March 27th at a session on April 25th, according to the ministry's proposal, SO Valjevo's board members and one part of those committees were doing something to fix what was done six months ago. Very short. It happened that on November 5th, at the session when the organs of SO Valjevo were to be selected, the congregation was left without a quorum. Is that enough, with 25 out of 51 councilmen. The ministry's March month memo made it clear that it was not possible to continue the work. In March, for what there was material evidence in November, when everything could be fixed in a renewed procedure, within a legal deadline of 30, 60 days, however, the assembly was established and elected by the authorities with 25 committees and two interested citizens. And she continued working with 25 committee members, after leaving the SO session by DSS, DS, SPO and Liberal Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15109	How about you go back to the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15110	The ministry has therefore failed to comply with its obligations under Article 109. Law on local self-government. In addition to the lack of quorum, the congregation worked in the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15111	Mr. Markovic, how about you go back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15112	Mr. Chairman, this and how it has to do with the law, and I want to point out that it is not enough in the government law alone, in Article 6, to write that the Government is overseeing the work of the authorities of other levels of government and, among other things, the municipalities, and that it is taking measures in terms of putting beyond the power of general acts which it finds out are not in accordance with the law and the Constitution. This is about an eclatant case that the ministry has found that the Rules of Procedure of SO Valjevo did not comply with the Constitution and the law. I ask the Minister of State Administration and local self-government whether the ministry has launched a procedure to determine the legality and constitutionality of this act. I invite him to answer that. I don't know if it is, as a national MP who signed several letters to the ministry, I didn't get one reply orally or in writing; orally, thanks to the courtesy of ministry officials, but I don't think it's a way of communicating with the ministry. At one meeting of three MPs on this issue with Mr. Minister Loncar, the first sentence the minister told us was: OK, you came unannounced, I don't like hiducia. If that's the way to communicate with the MPs, then it really takes a little bit as people to sit down and some codes to agree on. There's no reason for anyone to be angry with anyone, anyone to be demeaned or damaged. There's no reason the minister can't plan his time and that at any time, and whenever any MP needs to talk, that's what he has to do. I think there's a level of communication to be respected. I'd say there's been a major breach here at the expense of all of us. Regardless of how this coalition is formed and who is in power, this is not a question of taking over or forming another majority, but simply a principled question, whether it is a suggestion for all those who cannot make a congregation majority, to rule by law and to do so as they can. If he can do it at 25, he can do it with three. The way you get into a bank and you don't apply for a loan, you get to the money, so when they tell you it can't, you say, now give me a loan. That's right. That's right. We worked six months without quorum, outside the law, and then someone said in April, fix what happened on November 5th, and then the session of the assembly was scheduled, the election for the president of the assembly was repeated, and now we move on. Those 25 without quorum have adopted such important decisions as the budget decision. Now we're in status that this power that exists in Valjev has no legitimacy and full capacity, and it can't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15113	Mr. Markovic, this isn't Valyev law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15114	You, Mr. Chairman, please, if you think that...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15115	Talk about Valyev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15116	... I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, you're welcome to warn me and take my word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15117	Please talk about the law, I don't want to remind you, I'm a man of tolerance, as you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15118	I want to warn you, when we pass such important laws as the State Administration Act, such as the Government Act. Once again, you have not read the Bill on Government, Article 6 clearly states that the Government is monitoring and overseeing the work of state authorities and other levels of government, also states in some members that the Government is submitting a report to the Assembly on its work, and it also states that if the minister does not do his job in the manner provided for by this law, he resigns. I believe that in this case the law has been broken and the ministry has not done its job properly. I wanted to warn my fellow MPs and the public. Thank you, and it really wasn't appropriate for you to interrupt my exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15119	Mr. Markovic, thank you, and I hope we've managed to get back to the law. The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic and then by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15120	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after a few of these little tours about some other subjects, I'd move on to what we need to discuss today, and that's the government law and the state administration law, if you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15121	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15122	Thank you very much. The dynamics of congregation action wanted us to talk at this session about proposals for government and state administration laws. The development strategy of the state administration, which was adopted last year, contained elements in which the state administration of the Republic of Serbia should be reformed and the proposals of the government and state administration laws are a logical consequence, therefore, of the adoption of the strategy. Why is the amendment of the government and the state administration laws accessible? I would just like to remind you that the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was passed back in 1990 and that it accelerated afterwards in 1991 the Law on Government and 1992 the Law on State Administration. During these 15 years it has been observed that there are certain shortcomings within these legal texts, so that they should be approached for their change. The proposed government law, it can be said, has in one mechanical way transposed into its text the constitutional provision that regulated the government's issue and contained certain legal gaps, I mean the Government Act, and certain shortcomings, which the law that lies ahead of us should correct. And they primarily concern the issue of responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly and direct communication of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the National Assembly. Also, the issues of regulation and government organisation were not properly regulated, particularly on the issue of the General Secretariat of the Government and on the professional service of the Government, so that this proposal for a government law, which lies ahead of us, sought to better regulate these two bodies, which represent an extremely important segment of the work of each government, because through them there is a synthesis of all the relevant policies within the Government into a single government policy. So they wanted to achieve two basic goals of this amendment to the Government Act. It is to establish better regulated relations between the government of the Republic of Serbia, as an exponent of the executive government, and the National Assembly, as an exponent of the legislative authority. It also sought to establish a better organisation of the government itself, so that it could act better in the coming period. When we talk about the State Administration Act, I just said that the applicable State Administration Act was passed in 1992, so 13 years ago, and the concept of the state administration that existed at that time, so in many countries, is very different from the concept of state administration that is in force today in most European countries. The social function of the state administration shall be put in the first place. The state administration should primarily meet the basic needs of its citizens. In the last decade, many countries and their governments have tried to reform their ministries, in line with changes in society and the new needs of citizens. The goal was to form professional teams in the ministries, which could in a certain period of time look at the problems that arise in society and respond to them in the right way. A positive assessment of Serbia's feasibility study last month also discusses the problems of the state administration. She also pointed out firstly that there is a need to reform the state administration with us, but praised the government of Mr Vojislav Kostunica for the work she had invested in changing the state administration. It is these amendments to the Law on State Administration, which are in front of us, as well as some laws that will come in the coming period, and above all the Law on Civil Service, that will greatly reform the situation that we have today. The State Administration Act has two basic objectives ahead of it. It's to depoliticalize and professionalize the state administration. When we say – professionalization of the state administration, first of all in the state administration should be done by those personnel who are professional and capable. The state administration is not only made up of civil servants, so it's not a free assembly of civil servants, but they should first of all be the bearers of state power. We need, finally, to have career civil servants, who are independent and unchangeable in relation to the political changes that can occur in some future period. As for the depoliticalisation of the state administration, we need to depolitise the state administration and reduce the number of those leading places where there are changes due to some electoral actions, because now that the change of government occurs, there is also a change in the management posts in the state administration. So this is what we need in order for Serbia to finally get the right and modern state administration. I remind you that Serbia is on its way, getting a positive assessment of the feasibility study, the path of European integration. Of course, in the negotiation process, when joining the EU, the most important factor that will be put in the first place will be state officials. Someone has to run the negotiation process. It's these civil servants who are going to have to run this business. If we come into a situation to change these civil servants, who in the negotiation process are only changed depending on the change in political will, Serbia will have major problems in the negotiation process and could be a stalemate in the EU accession process, and none of us are the goal, but we all aim to make Serbia a modern, orderly country. I'd like to stay on another important segment of the state administration law. First of all, from the point of view of the position of local self-government, a very important newspaper is the formation of the so-called so-called state of affairs. administrative districts. The vast majority of you are involved in the work of local self-government and you know what problems local self-government is facing on the ground. There are certain problems that cross the municipalities' territories and cannot be solved only by the operation of a local self-government, but by the need for coordination of several local self-governments. It is the advice of administrative districts, where co-ordination will be achieved between local self-governments along with the head of administrative districts, so co-ordination with the republican level of government will be achieved, will solve many problems in the territory of each local self-government. So all of us here, 250, how many the National Assembly numbers, have one single goal -- to create a modern and orderly Serbia. Without a strong and modern state administration, there is no strong Serbia. We should have a state administration that will serve to satisfy all the rights of our citizens, which will give them the right in a quick and simple way, and we also need a strong state administration in order to speed up Serbia's economic development. Now I would like to ask you once again to vote together for the proposed laws on government and state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15123	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15124	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, both laws on the agenda have been presented by the minister as reform laws, particularly the government law, which has been said to have primarily been aimed at introducing reforms in the area of the executive government. So far, we have become accustomed to the largest number of laws that come from the government, or whose pronoun is the Government, promoting us here as reform, although essentially nothing is passed reformically, although they essentially do not change relationships that are already common and that exist, which is based on what the laws apply, which is based on established practices that do not change after some new laws have been adopted. Legal gaps may have been in the previous law, or the current Government Act, but it is interesting that this law does not fill that legal void, although it is now said, in the speech of the Minister, that some legal gaps will be filled. However, some of the things in this law have been tried very ill and in a legally bad way to formulate themselves, but the impression is that this has not been done until the end. When it comes to the government's choice, there's something you've tried to do, but it's known how the government is chosen. As it has been chosen so far, it will be chosen in the same way and in the future, and there is no novelty. Also, the government's internal organisation, except for these two councils that the Prime Minister can set up, has nothing more recent, and the government and the National Assembly's relations are governed by the basic principles on which democracy rests, which means full independence in the conduct of their affairs and their responsibilities. The Law on State Administration falls under laws that should, about, imitate what the EU countries have written in their laws on state administration or what they contain, and we have been facing a major problem for many years now, because we want to regulate legislation like them and thus become very inefficient, because EU countries are mostly richer materially than we are. They've got the state administration's bulk machines. They have a large number of auxiliaries, organizations and bodies that help the government work and end the jobs for which the government is primarily responsible, but which is tasked by some other organisations, agencies, and they can finance it. Among other things, because a large number of these new EU countries are financed practically by their state administration. However, we are not in such a situation, and so far it has proved that after every change of government, there has been an increase in the number of workers in the state administration, and we have only actually represented these famous coalition capacities in Serbia – which this party is prepared to, at any cost, not asking what price the citizens of Serbia will pay, employ as many of their people as possible and, given that the economy is not working, mainly that employment was happening in the authorities of the state administration at different levels. That's why we have a huge, bulky and very dysfunctional state-run apparatus, which is why it's very difficult to control, especially when it comes to lower levels of government, how this local self-government, or their administration authorities, works, since they're completely trying to imitate the government. I have already, in my speeches, cited examples of the organisation of agencies at a republican level, which has not been a specialty for local government levels for a long time, and they also apply it there. Of course, from the budget, citizens are taking funds to finance largely similar agencies and some similar institutions and institutions that absolutely do nothing, and are themselves the purpose of existence. It's all a state apparatus and a state administration, which is too massive, which should help governance authorities at different levels to work more efficiently. But unfortunately, in practice, you know that's not the case. The fact is that these laws prejudge future constitutional solutions if there are soon to be adopted a new constitution. You have already tried through these laws to prepare something that the constitution would later contain. This would give you constitutional coverage for the provisions in these laws, for which there are virtually no coverage in this Constitution now. You will legalize a large number of agencies, for which it is not clear by the Constitution prescribed way of forming, you will legalize many other things, and you will see a later discussion of the details, you will also see concretely which members of the SRS proposal have a large number of objections. If you were able to listen in particular and accept a significant number of these remarks, these laws might become in practice enforceable, by having a problem that you will not succeed again. This is what you're even trying, by the government law, to increase the number of people who will be employed by the authorities. You won't be able to reduce that number of people. The state administration will continue to be based solely on how many coalition partners will have the need to employ certain people in the authorities of the state administration and to finance all this from the budget on the burden of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15125	The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He's not in the O.R. National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, not him. National MP Vladimir Homan, and then MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15126	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, we have before us two laws that are very important for the further work of both the state administrations and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to say one thing first about the state administration law, about certain provisions, with reference to the so far solution in the law that, as we've heard, is 13 years old. Under the current State Administration Act, the ministry authorities that are busy with operational affairs and special organisations, which can be established, can, under the applicable law, do administrative work exactly as the ministries, and in a functional sense, and can and sometimes have confusion in their work. Now it will change and they can have and do much more effective work. The exercise of administrative activity so far has served exclusively by public authorities, and now this will change, because the exercise of administrative activity should not only serve as a government, but also be a means of public service and contribute to the general development of society, as well as to its social function. This is all possible through this draft state administration law, which I consider to be one of the most significant changes in this proposal. Also, the heads of state will no longer have the status of officials, but will be professionals and professional civil servants. This also highlights the need to professionalise the state administration. Of course, this is also very clearly stated in the law. It remained in Article 7 that the basic principle of the state administration's work is the principle of legality, however, not only does the law retain itself, but Article 8 of the affirmation and the principle of compliance with the rules of profession, impartially and politically neutrally, which is also very important and has not been clearly defined so far. This concludes that the new law depolitises the state administration, creating a professional and responsible administration, in which the perpetrators of these duties, without the burden of day-to-day political developments and their personal dependence on them, will do the tasks of the state government to its lowest level. Most importantly, conditions are being created for the rationalization of the state-government apparatus. The previous governments, I don't want to say which, all the previous governments on all levels have been constantly increasing the number of employees in the state administration. This government wasn't doing it, it was going to work exactly the opposite. It will streamline this massive state-owned apparatus, and the only criterion, and that should be stressed that officials in the state administration would not be afraid, will be professionalism in the work. It's about this law, which may have arrived late. It should have been brought before, but the previous governments did not consider it necessary to pass it, and now we are going to vote very nearly and very soon it will come into force. As for the draft government law, what is most important in this law, it defines the relationship between the government and the Assembly, which has so far been unclear. In addition, it regulates the powers of the General Secretariat of the Government and clearly defines the concept and competence of all services in the Government. It is also very precisely defined in Articles 17 and 18 as well as the powers of the Government to which the term of office has ceased and how non-trust can be voted on by the Government, and I do not see why there are objections to these solutions. The same thing as the government, the Prime Minister, applies to both ministers and their responsibilities in case they resign or are removed. The composition of all government services, the cabinet of the president and vice-president of the government has also been done, with the aim of increasing expertise and independence in their work. Clearly, after all we've heard today and what we'll probably hear, the opposition shouldn't praise these laws, but I'm afraid we haven't heard any meaningful objections to these laws so far, and we haven't heard any particular objections to the legal nature. The main observation of language is that these laws are illiterate, which is not clear to me as a lawyer. What I'm trying to say is that this government has been doing a great job so far. This government has the support of the international community, and so it will continue in the future, just to say that by passing government and state administration laws, we will only increase the efficiency of work, both the government and the state administration. I believe that the government, as well as the minister in charge of the state administration, will be able to control it even more effectively and that the work of this state administration will be even more effective, at the service of all citizens of this country and Serbia's progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15127	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let MP Goran Rakovic from the DSS be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened very carefully to the MP of the SRS, Mr Zoran Krasic, and I think he explained pretty well why it was necessary to bring some new constitutional frameworks before, and then move on to the adoption of laws on government and state administration. Because it seems to me, in the best way, that these legal solutions are now prejudged some things, some new constitutional solutions. We do not dispute your right to organise the work of the government, the ministries, the state administration in the way you think it is best and that it will best help you run the state, with the program that you have outlined. But one thing here is not clear. If you were in such a hurry, if this was an emergency, you even referred that one proposal to an emergency procedure, and it was later returned, etc., why did the congregation’s majority fail at the same time to submit a bill on the National Assembly? Minister, I will tell you, I will try to explain to you that we are the hostages of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and its public enterprises, directorates, etc. I'm the chairman of the Traffic and Communications Committee. In early March, we applied to the Ministry of Capital Investments, and a little later to the Republic Road Construction Directorate, looking for precise answers to the questions that we as a Committee have unanimously sought. To this day, we do not get precise answers. There's always new reporters who say -- unfortunately, we're not familiar with what's been done before. And we have no way to force the Ministry, the Directorate, the individual ministry or some minister to the National Assembly, the Working Body of the National Assembly, the Committee, to provide such answers as are appropriate to one of the ministries addressed to the National Assembly, which should be controlled by the Ministry, the Government, etc. This haste with which you have filed these laws shows that since the new constitution was passed, there is nothing. It will be him, but when it is not known, although the president of the National Assembly, Markovic, has promised us that the text of the new constitution will be in the National Assembly of May, and that may be why you are in a hurry. I'd like to pay attention to the fact that we have district chiefs today with very small powers, they're practically figures. And this new legal solution, they practically keep a carnet, a record of working time employees. In today's day, when every director can fire a worker however he likes, the district chief can't even initiate a disciplinary procedure, but is proposing to initiate a disciplinary procedure. I would like the strength and power of the district's chief to come from legal powers, not from the political power and power of his political party. He will be able to achieve his role in one district, where, say, the presidents of the municipalities or mayors of the people of his party. But in the first step, when it comes to a municipality where such a government is not, it loses its power and everything else. At one point, the DSS representative here said that there was a special quality of this law that ministerial assistants would be non-partisan personalities and professionals and I would really like it to be so. Does he really believe what he said and does that mean that immediately after the adoption of this law, all ministerial assistants will be resolved, and then those people who are really real professionals will be appointed? If so, see for yourself how many party members are among the assistants, deputies, they are all party personalities and all of them have come to the proposal of some political party, and among them there are many responsible party people, but not quality experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15129	The People's MP Goran Rakovic has the word, and let the MP Nikola Todorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, listening to previous discussions, especially those most critical of this law, if I had any dilemmas that this law should be supported, then all these dilemmas are scattered. In line with the bill's proposal, one earlier principle, the principle of unity of government, which has long ruled in this country, has been mentioned among other things for almost 50 years in the one-party system and 50 years in which the assembly system dominated. The fact that many still live in that system and think in the old way, which fortunately will not be able to return and who, fortunately, is completely breaking this new bill. The principle of unification of government, which we had as the strongest principle of the 1970s, which lasted until the 1990s, until the introduction of a multipartial system, namely until the adoption of the constitution, which is currently in force, and it conditioned the principle of division of power, so it left a very difficult consequence, not only in science, since the entire generations of students were learning about one authority, I mean the assembly, and unfortunately it remained only on the theory, while in practice it turned out that these countries were ruled by various committees and formal or informal groups. Although we have the Government Act, which was passed immediately after the adoption of the 1990 Constitution, the fact is that this law did not clearly distinguish and did not clearly establish and justify what should be the executive authority in this country, i.e. it did not fully regulate, primarily the relationship between the Assembly, on the one hand, and the executive authorities, or the Government, on the other hand. In this sense, the objectives of this law – and above all, the regulation of the relations between the Assembly and the Government, and the entire third chapter of this law, relate to this, as well as to the regulation of the Government, and the good part is contained in this law – are clear intensities that these relations are clear offices and that there is no law on the government that exists today, but that the law can be passed in general, in order for the existing and all future governments to come. The Constitution itself has dedicated all four members to the government, primarily taxing which are its responsibilities, but the fact that it has not clearly developed the relationship between the three branches of government, the relationship between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, so that we are also drawing out the necessity of adopting this and this law, since each of these three domains of government is the highest in its work. And the essence of the state organisation and the functioning of the government is precisely in finding the right measure between these three branches of government, in their mutual co-operation, but also in their separation, since everyone in their domain must represent the highest power. I would refer to Article 7, and he regulates the government's responsibility and, as a principle, points out that the government is independent within its jurisdiction. In fact, if we want to reform the executive power, if we want to put the government in these first three systems in the right way, then we have to give it full independence, which would first and foremost be reflected in those affairs that are within its jurisdiction. However, independence does not mean that the Government is ruling for itself and that it does not answer to anyone, which is very clearly stated in Article 7(2) of this Law, where it is clearly pointed out that the Government is responsible, above all, to the National Assembly, and to the conduct of politics of the Republic of Serbia, to enforce laws and other general acts of the National Assembly and to the state in all areas of its jurisdiction and, ultimately, to the work of the authorities of the state administration. I would also refer to the third chapter of this law, which is the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government, since, as I said in my explanation, it was pointed out that one of the objectives of this law was precisely to regulate this relationship which was not fully regulated by the 1991 Law on Government. In fact, several of the members we have in this chapter are determined very precisely what the government is dealing with, that is, its relationship with the National Assembly. Therefore, Article 34 provides that the Government proposes laws and other general acts to the National Assembly, but at the same time gives opinions on proposals for laws and other general legal acts which it did not propose itself. What is required to do every year is to submit to the National Assembly the budget, to submit a report on its work for the past year, and to submit a proposal for the final account of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is very important to refer to a member of the 37th subtitle - National Assembly and Government proposals. In fact, the government's obligation to take a position on a proposal from the National Assembly is clearly defined here when it comes to the government's competence, but also so that the Government can propose to the National Assembly to discuss the issue of government competence and to take a position on it. So he can, but he doesn't have to. As regards participation in the work of the Government and the National Assembly, therefore, with regard to those laws and general legal acts proposed by the Government to the National Assembly, its presence is mandatory, i.e. participation in the work of the National Assembly, as well as in the adoption of laws and other general acts not proposed by the Government members, are required to participate only at the request of the Assembly. Finally, as a certain summary of all this, I would like to say, this law represents an important step towards the current situation, an important improvement in relation to the existing Government Act, is something that needs to be supported. Therefore, the DSS will support this law in the voting day and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15131	The word has the People's MP Nikola Todorovic, and let MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15132	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the debate we have heard very sharp criticisms about these two draft laws, and in the professional section, I mean legal profession, when it comes to wording, clarity and understanding. I wouldn't say that again. I'd like to talk about other aspects. I understand why the government is changing the existing text of the law. We've changed the social system, the state order, so it's logical to change the texts of the law that should be in line with the new social order compared to the existing one. What someone had already told, perhaps in another context, and I would repeat that story with an emphasis on what may not be clear to all; about the text of the law to be written, and signed by the Government, there were ministers who said - I didn't write the text, I didn't quite agree with such a text, but I came and defend the proposal, which the Assembly should adopt most votes. The government as a proposing provides for the majority and such a law is passed, and then the same government does not provide for the application of the law in practice and there is a problem why we have passed such a law, which is inconsistencies. I know that maybe some other government would be more efficient, more determined in such a difficult situation, when everything in this country needs to be solved over and over again, but it's about personal solutions, the government's composition, the government's connection, co-ordination in the government itself. Recently, Minister Vela Ilic says -- I cannot control my assistants and deputies because they don't take my bills, run to their party chief and talk to him. In such a context, it is difficult for the government to work, I understand, and the government must act as a single state body that cares for the state in the best possible way. When it comes to state administration, it's numerous, expensive, disorganized, bureaucratic, and there's plenty of room to work. For many years, nothing was involved in the reorganisation of the state administration, and this is a major problem, especially after the introduction of a multi-party system, when every new coalition that seemed to employ new people, not taking care of efficiency and need, especially expertise, knowledge, etc. The problem is personnel policy. When it comes to government, the government's governing structure in the authorities, whether it's the authorities of the administration, public enterprises or something else, how people are brought in and how they're being prepared, schooled, where they've acquired the necessary knowledge and skills to do exactly that job they've been assigned to do. Who controls their efficiency? Are they satisfied with the work they're doing? Are they satisfied with status, salary, working conditions? No one in this country has recently taken care of it, and this is the biggest problem that a job is effectively and professionally done. What might have been in that sense was an attempt to do in the earlier period, it was a staff office that ran the records on two basiss, based on working engagement, or social and political engagement, of basic data, such as age, completed schools, work-related jobs, advancement in the profession, and then we made some newsletters about it. And I know that the law wasn't allowed for anyone to work in a leadership post if there wasn't at least a higher and higher school, which is now a similar solution in this law, and especially in those places where there were re-election places, the leading places, so there's a found state, you can't change a director who doesn't have the right school, he'll work until the end of the term. But the mandate expires for five or six years, and we find that there were 180 directors of large enterprises in Serbia at the time without primary education, which could not have happened after the re-election, that same director applied to the same jobs. That's what there is now when it comes to the selection of personnel based on party membership. I don't know how best it would be to organise this staff policy and run the best selection. The choice of personnel, the control of their efficiency, could be done by an authority in the government, but most of the work has been transferred to those professional agencies. I don't know if the government is just dealing with politics or framework conditions. This should be regulated legally and normatively, although the current law looks like a normative regulation. We're to this extent systematic, teachingly, slowly doing it, but that paper remains paper, there's no circulation, there's no living work if it doesn't work and if the people on those jobs don't do it. One short story, since I don't have much time. Working on business and human resources in the economy a long time ago, leading a trip to the Technical Faculty students, I came to an enterprise that was largely working for export, six or seven million units of one product, control for large companies in the world, well organized, good manufacturing process, big wages throughout the system, and there was a riot as to why this company has the highest salary in the system. We took students, and from one interview with one of the executives, we got an explanation, he was a student at the Faculty of Engineering in Belgrade, for the third year, he says -- I got a scholarship, I thought some mistake, he took the money, he spent, the second month, I get a scholarship, I get a contract, I sign a contract, and I keep receiving a scholarship until the final year. I finish college, I got a scholarship from another company, I leave and I start working in that company. It's been a year. The director of the company that sent me the contract later came to me, found me and said, "I know you've finished college, I know you're in this company now, it's a good company, and you're going to get good practice, but now I'm offering you these conditions, you go over to our place to work, good pay, credit to buy an apartment or a house, and you're doing your job." We talked about the security of the necessary personnel, and then we asked, how in these big systems, in one small mess, to provide professional personnel without going to big cities. In the end, this young engineered director-- how did you find me? Faced with problems of solving human needs went to Belgrade, asked the dean - if there were any of my peasants at that university, to see their average score, what are students, what years are. Picked the best, scholarshipd, hired, and thus provided personnel in the long term. I don't know how it is in the government in the area of an economic branch, in the field of social life, to ensure the best and most efficient, because all the principles declared fall into the water if the minister proposes to the director of the body of the government from the ranks of the profession, and not an expert, is not prepared for the profession, there is no necessary knowledge and experience, and he proposes the deputy director, and thus, again, everything will be in the field of a particular political party, will not be depolitised and no better result will be achieved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15133	The People's MP Rajko Baralić has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15134	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I only have a few minutes. I want to point out one thing that has served as an argument in the election campaigns of various political parties and groups in the last ten years. The report we received says the Home Office has 43,000 people on the payroll. Therefore, it is the total number of authorised officials, unbalanced etc. I am very grateful for this information and for this report. At least 200 times I've heard you say earlier that there are 100,000 police officers in Serbia in uniform, that there is a guard in Serbia who is particularly paying, that there is a whole series of problems with this relationship. You know, sooner or later the truth sees the light of day, except there are unprincipled election campaigns, and this way I point to myself and others, when they participate in the elections, when they offer and offer their political offers, based on their political agenda, to tell the truth. The truth is not often an effective means of obtaining votes, but it is on a long-term level of honesty and knowledge the only thing worth paying off in this country and what must become a system of values. If that's not the case, we're in a big and nasty problem. I just want to take a brief look at a few provisions concerning this notion - the Secretary of State. My ears just don't like the tradition that exists in these and other countries. The concept of the secretary of state is something that is related to some other traditions, some other experiences, and rarely when you hear it spoken in plural. The secretary of state in one serious state, such as America, is practically a representative of the government, doing other jobs. I'm afraid we're not making a mistake that way, although I understand what the legislator was going to say about it. The next question, which I want to point out, refers to this famous depoliticalization. She's necessary, of course, if possible. But if we are professional, if we are well-intentioned, if we are extremely honest with the people's obligations, it does not deprive us or free us from being political people. So, you can declare from today that someone is not what they declared themselves to be, he can formally step out of the party, he can resign to membership in the party's authority, but he is essentially the one who was yesterday. You can erase me from all the records, try some of them before and mine, but it's impossible for me to explain that I'm not a socialist. So, I'm afraid that the intensity that exists to be depoliticalized by state authorities is a good intention, but in practice there will always be a danger of not being called that anymore, and in essence and realistically giving the consequences of the political state, the party, however you want, and it won't be able to free anyone for long, so I think neither, although I believe in honest intent. The state administration is the best when it's professional and efficient. There's no expensive administration that's efficient. If we pay the efficient administration well, then we don't risk anything in front of the citizens. If in various other ways, by increasing the number of employees, by inventing jobs, by co-systematisation and other forms we do so, we are in fact burdening taxpayers, and already our colleagues here have spoken, we have in four or five years 32 thousand new systematicised jobs in Serbia's administration. That's terrible. It can't last a much stronger economy than it is ours, it can't stand any country that isn't in transition, not in the state that our country is in today. This suggests that those who have promised effective management, or who have not had enough confidence in those who have been employed there or who have had obligations to their parties and their activists. But obviously, in Serbia today, we have an enormously high number of employees, we have reduced budget revenues and unfortunately we have a insufficiently efficient administration. With that in mind, we need to do whatever is necessary, and I don't see enough guarantees in this law for that. A completely principled remark - it is incompatible to pass a law on government without the law on the National Assembly being passed. The National Assembly is the hat of everything in this country. National MPs, 250 of them in the National Assembly, have been elected by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Their mandate is undeniable. It was perfectly normal for us to talk at the same session about the Law on the National Assembly and the Law on Government. The fact that there was not a good enough will here that a number of people understood the essence of the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, not to let us into a guideline for meat through the media, that for a few weeks we were not coming down from the newspaper pillars because of where, in one far-fetched and primitive way, this initiative was presented to citizens, unlike what was its essential intention, it says that we are not ready enough and mature enough to do this job that the citizens have entrusted us with. This congregation must pass a law on the National Assembly. The National Assembly must have its own budget, it is impossible to allow the government's supremacy of the National Assembly any longer. This then does not contribute to any democratisation in society, nor to the spirit of parliamentaryism in one country. It is unacceptable for the finance minister to control everything that is happening in this country, regardless of which party, what is its concept, etc. Whoever thinks it's easy to be a folk MP, have him raise his courage, animate his friends, find a political program and get on the list. In a few weeks or a few months of election campaigns, you are exposed to special pressures, checks, often non-discipline campaigns, etc. It would be correct for the minister to tell us when we can expect the Law on the National Assembly, which should settle several important issues. The government's attitude towards the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is humiliating for the National Assembly. That should no longer be allowed by any MP. That's not normal. If we want to do this job honestly, then this should be a package and we should talk about one thing and the other. So I ask that in the first opportunity, and this could be an extraordinary session in a few days, we get a bill and we say about it as people, that it regulates various issues that are related to the status of MPs, to the status and position of the National Assembly, to the relations between the representatives of the Republic and the National Assembly and a whole series of other issues. Otherwise, the fact that some member of the National Assembly is asking the head of a parliamentary group to show him the insight of a ten-page document, whether or not it can be copied, has to be approved, it has never been here before. It is humiliating for the Messengers of the people. Don't do this to us, it's incorrect. If there is no elemental trust in the head of a parliamentary group, if he cannot copy 20 pages of material for the purposes of a session, then here we are talking about something that is not normal. That's why, Mr. Minister, it's important to have the National Assembly Act here, not to be our finance minister, because he's not our boss, he can't be, he can't be, or anyone else. The National Assembly is someone who chooses the government and all ministers in the government, and we ask that with due respect and due dignity the government treats those who choose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15135	I thank Mr. Baralic, by the law on the National Assembly depends on the MPs, not the government. When the MPs decide, it will be on the agenda. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, what to say after a representative of the parliamentary group who supports the government of the Republic of Serbia. He said a lot, and in one part, we agree on the question of when the draft law on the National Assembly will come on the agenda. It's missing here, anyway. As far as the draft laws ahead of us are concerned, they are, according to the Democratic Party's assessment, very bad and certainly not and cannot, as the minister said in the opening statement, that some things are clearer and that some things are being adapted to today's needs. Why do we say that? For the simple reason that the set of these laws is written in an absolutely incomprehensible language, which is inapplicable and which greatly penetrates other substances defined by a special law, especially the Constitution of Serbia. That applies first of all to the government law. Certain provisions of the proposed law are absolutely prescribed by the Serbian Constitution. When we look at the Bill of Government, we'll see that it contains, as I said, numerous indiscretions, and at the very least quite vague. So, let's take it in a row, Article 6. The proposal says the government is entitled to supervise the constitutionality and legality of general acts of other congregations, and in particular in this case autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, the city of Belgrade, public enterprises, etc. The government has taken the right to mix directly and to put pressure on, above all, those local self-governments in which representatives of other political organisations, who are not at the will of the ruling group, exercise power. This clearly stems from the proposal for this law, that is, Article 6 which I have mentioned. A right that has only been given in this matter to the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I don't know why the Serbian government is taking something that doesn't belong to it under any law. What happens if a single act turns out to be contrary to the Constitution? Who will suffer the consequences of that? This is not stated in the specific article, there are no criminal provisions. Article 12 of Article 3 is an absolute legacy of self-management, and this shows the situation in the Serbian government. This is the most picturesque example of incompetence. I read: a member of the government may request the government to decide whether, when issuing mandatory instructions, the Prime Minister has exceeded his powers. Now, for example, Mladjan Dinkic can say – President, shame on you either, you have exceeded the powers. Then let's vote on it. He says, I'm ashamed, I'm sorry. Imagine the powers and obligations of the government to regulate between members. Article 17 has defined in the event of the government's termination of its mandate as well as what is done, so to anyone who has any knowledge of the right, it is a very clear provision that until the election of Serbia's new government, the previous government is doing business under its jurisdiction. It is not an accurate finding by the minister in the explanation that the proposed solution also solves the issue, which was quite unarranged in the previous law. Article 22 paragraph 3 is the absolute peak of unseriousness. I am saying this because of those who have not had the opportunity to see this law, and the good work of MPs, and above all the ruling group, who have not read it. And here's the thing. From the submission of a proposal from the Prime Minister to the National Assembly's decision, the minister cannot exercise his powers, but is taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has power. How can the President of the Government limit the right of the minister elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia not to do its part of the job, not to do the work in its portfolio? Who was elected here in Serbia? Whether it was the government or the Prime Minister's choice of parliament or the opposite. For example, if one such case were to happen and, for example, the Prime Minister applied for the resolution of Mladjan Dinkic, an example of how well the Assembly works, how fast we are, and how well the president proposes the agenda, with 20 and change points, so the session takes place from March to May, which my colleagues would say by March next year, could happen after three months of discussion. Until then, the minister has no right to exercise authority from his portfolio. Is that normal in this country? As far as the promoter himself is concerned, he is intruding in the work of the National Assembly in this law, interfering in jurisdiction and taking over the powers of the Serbian Parliament. The government's attitude towards the Serbian Parliament is such that the government puts itself in a dominant position with regard to parliament, and the assembly is shaped only in the ruling group according to this proposal. Representatives of other political parties who do not support the Serbian government as if they do not exist. A little precision again, said Article 38, participation in the work of the National Assembly: "The government representatives participate in the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of laws and other general acts proposed by the Government. "Station 2 is completely unclear: "In the adoption of laws and other general acts which the Government did not propose, they are required to participate at the request of the National Assembly. "Who? Representatives of the government. That's understood. There's nothing to be said. The law must be completely accurate and clear. What my colleagues would say again, they're gone for a while anyway. Let's look back at the state administration law, the state secretaries are being introduced instead of former deputies, there are no specific explanations as to why the secretary of state, and not as it has been so far, Deputy Minister. The basic idea is to depolitize the state administration. The government has not answered what has prevented her from depolitizing the state administration so far. What were the brakes and what prevented them from establishing such a mechanism as early as last March's election. This government, through alleged depolitisation, creates its own proposed solutions and its own human resources that have led to further protection through the adoption of one of these laws. This is an elegant example of creating space for the absolute involvement of political people in the state administration. As far as DS is concerned, I think we also made it clear and loud in the principle debate why we are against these laws. I think the guidance of these and such members clearly and vividly depicted what kind of government we have. Given who wrote the bill, I'm not surprised why you still have these self-management provisions contained in the bill, specifically in the draft government law. The DS can't and won't accept such bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15137	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. We'll continue this afternoon at 3:05 p.m. The first for a word in the afternoon debate would be MP Vojislav Milajic, and then MP Milica Gavrilovic, in turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15138	We are continuing the afternoon work of today's session. There are 140 MPs present on the official record, but I ask that we determine the quorum. The use of the electronic system has established that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Branka Bosnjak be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15139	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a government law has entered two areas and extended the powers of the executive authority. First of all, this refers to the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the jurisdiction and procedure before the Serbian Parliament. As far as the Constitutional Court of Serbia and Article 6 are concerned, The draft law states that the Government can monitor the constitutionality and legality of general and individual acts and that it suspends the execution of those acts if it is assessed that they do not comply with the Constitution and the law. That provision violated at least five members of the law in proceedings before the Constitutional Court and the decisions of the Constitutional Court of RS. This is evident from the fact that even the courts during the proceedings when they carry out the proceedings cannot carry out an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the rules applicable in the course of the court proceedings, but the court has the authority only to terminate the proceedings and to ask the Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality whether any regulation is in accordance with the Constitution or the law. Also, the government can initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court, as well as any other citizen, if it is estimated that some general act is not in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but cannot have so wide-ranging powers to suspend the execution of general and individual acts. The Constitutional Court's labour law provides for decisions by the Constitutional Court to be implemented by the Serbian government. It is envisaged that the constitutionality of acts taken by the Government and the authorities of the state administration be assessed, so it is entirely illogical that someone who executes decisions of the Constitutional Court, whose decisions are subject to the assessment of constitutionality and legality, assesses whether a general act or an individual act is an AP, a municipality, a city, a city of Belgrade, a public enterprise or a person who has public authority in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The same law provides for decisions by the Constitutional Court to take effect on the day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". Here the fact comes by making a decision to suspend the execution of general and individual acts. Within 15 days, the Government is required to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court, which it will certainly do, as soon as it has reached a solution to suspend the enforcement of an individual or general act. That kind of authority doesn't even have a Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may, as provided for in Article 42 of this Law, suspend the execution of an individual act and individual action, but may not act in general, so that it is illogical that the Government may suspend its decision to execute general and individual acts without the Constitutional Court being able to do so. As for other shortcomings in this law, the Constitution in Article 91 provides for the government to be made up of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. So this is where it's supposed to be in the crowd - the vice president. The government must have at least two or more vice presidents. The bill provides, in Article 10(1), for one or more vice-presidents of the government, which is directly contrary to the Serbian Constitution. Article 3 provides that the number of vice-presidents and ministers without portfolios shall be determined by the National Assembly in each government election. However, it is a huge mistake because the National Assembly chooses the government and does not determine the number of vice-presidents and ministers without portfolios. It is not possible for the Assembly to determine but rather for the proposal to be given by the mandate, and the Assembly can only choose whether or not to accept the proposal from the mandate, so the formulation that the National Assembly determines the number of vice-presidents is completely illogical. As for the relationship with the National Assembly, there are three groups of problems. One concerns the procedure for not trusting the Government. The second group of problems concerns the procedure for reviewing the government's trust, when the government itself asks to determine whether it has confidence in the Assembly or not. The third is about the government's resignation. Article 18 paragraph 1 provides that 20 MPs may propose to the National Assembly that non-trust be voted upon by the Government. However, in Article 198. The rules of procedure provide for the proposal to be addressed to the president of the National Assembly, not to the National Assembly, but to the President of the National Assembly. The National Assembly can mean many things. It can also include vice presidents, secretaries, professional services, etc. However, the Rules of Procedure have been decided that the president of the National Assembly is being submitted with the proposal. It has to be written and explained. Also, Article 18(2), from the submission of the proposal to the vote, cannot go beyond three or more days. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly stipulates that the deadline for the discussion of the government's non-confidential vote is between three and 15 days. This law establishes that the Assembly must vote within three to 15 days. These are completely two different situations. Article 19(2) regulates the proposal to trust the Government. There's a deadline from five to 20 days. The Rules of Procedure, Article 200(4), stipulates that the deadline must also be between three and 15 days, so that this Article 19(2) is directly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 19(4) provides that a non-voting government may resign. However, in the Constitution, Article 93(1) and Article 5 determine that the government is expected to question its trust, but does not answer the question of what happens to the government unless this trust is voted in the Assembly. However, according to the logic of the matter, if the government itself raises the question of trust, and the Assembly does not vote in confidence, it would logically be believed that the government has suspended its mandate. In the end, all I'm going to say is that from the government's acts provided for by this law, the government can pass, as provided for in Article 45, even a declaration. The declaration is a political act which gives an opinion on certain social issues and which should be in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Assembly. That opinion adopted by the Assembly should be binding on the government. We don't think the government should bring declarations, because it is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15140	I thank Mr. Milajic. The word has the People's MP Branka Bosnjak, and let the MP Aleksandar Djordjevic be prepared for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15141	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the governmental system in Serbia, as well as the work of the government of the state administration, is based on the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on State Administration. As both of these laws were passed right after the adoption of the Constitution away in 1990, their shortcomings slow down government governance and make the government less effective. As far as the government law is concerned, its provisions are classified in several segments. The first part defines the composition of the government, its mandate and the way the government works. So far, the start and end of the government's mandate, the vote on trust or mistrust of the government, as well as some other provisions have been governed by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. That is why the most important role of this law is to define more precisely the relationship between the National Assembly, as the holder of the legislative authority, and the Government. as a carrier of the executive authority. The law also makes it clear what mandatory parts of the government are. The President and Vice-President of the Government, or several Deputy Prime Ministers, with their cabinets, adviser to the Prime Minister, the General Secretariat with the Secretary-General, as well as various services and working bodies of the Government. The second part of the law regulates the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government: the way in which the laws are passed to the National Assembly; the obligation to propose budgets by the Government and its adoption or refusal by the National Assembly; the obligation of members of the Government to participate in the work of the National Assembly: the supply of data to the National Assembly at the request of the National Assembly and a lot more. The law defines the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic and regulates it in an efficient and democratic manner. In a particular segment, the law prescribes what are the acts that the Government rules the state, such as Regulations and Rules of Procedure, decisions, solutions and conclusions, a memorandum of budget, declarations. The laws that are before us are not only written for the government and the state administration that proposes them, but are the most orderly of democratic states. They represent an additional foundation for the democratisation of the Serbian state and, therefore, on behalf of the G17 Plus party, I expect all MPs and all parties to support these laws and to vote in favour of their adoption in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15142	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and let the MP Milica Gavrilovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15143	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, by proposing these two legislative projects, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, will not precisely and clearly exercise the division of powers between the legislative authority, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the executive government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the basic objectives, let's say, the proposal for a government law is said to be - the first and the primary goal for the adoption of a new law is that the clearer offices apply to the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. However, this legislative solution, as well as the Bill on State Administration, will not regulate these two areas in the way that we, the MPs of the SRS, expected from the government, because the legislative proposals were incorrectly written, obviously in haste, as seen by many members of the SRS and my colleagues here. We will have the opportunity to talk in detail about the amendments we have submitted, because it was clear that it was first to be passed, if not the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as the highest legislative act, that the first law on the National Assembly had to be passed, and only then would we go to the adoption of legislation on state administration and government law. In this case, things have been set up, I'm afraid, upside down, and the government has again, as has been suggested in many legislative proposals in this National Assembly, it proposes giving legislative projects that are not clearly and precisely understood. This can be clearly seen, for example, in the case of Article 22. The proposal for a law on government, which says the following point in point 3: "From the submission of the Prime Minister's proposal to discharge the minister to the National Assembly's decision, ministers cannot exercise their powers, but they are taken by a member of the government whom the Prime Minister has jurisdiction. "This article clearly shows that the law is not well-conceived and the SRS MPs will in the debate on the details of the amendments we have tabled on the proposal of these two laws have the opportunity to bring out a clear concept and what the government should have done when it proposed such legislative projects. So the legal projects you have proposed to the National Assembly are not well-conceived. These two draft laws, just the opposite of what is stated in the reasons and objectives for their adoption, will not exercise jurisdiction between the legislative authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the executive authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It is becoming a practice in the congregation that the Government submits to the National Assembly precisely such legal proposals that are not clearly and accurate. So, in the discussion of details, you will have the opportunity to hear clearly all of our views on all the members with whom we disagree as a parliamentary group of SRS. We believe that these two draft laws are not well regulated and that they do not regulate these two areas in the way that they should.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15144	The word has a folk MP, Milica Gavrilovic, and let the MP of the people Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that most of the Members of the People's Parliament today are mildly despised because we are discussing the Bill of Government, and we have not previously passed a law on the National Assembly. Indeed, it was some regular trail of events, but for that, the Members of Parliament did not blame us for this government, it was our fault, because we failed to agree on the basic text of the Law on the National Assembly, which had already been in the assembly procedure twice, but unfortunately, it was always withdrawn. I hope that in the future we will become so self-aware that we realize the importance of the Law on the National Assembly and adopt it as soon as possible. The proposal for a government law is important in view of the fact that the current law has many shortcomings, which need to be removed in order for this government to continue to work even more effectively. One of the basic papers of the government law is that it clearly defines the relationship between the National Assembly and the Government. It is absolutely unacceptable for such a relationship to be defined by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, as is the case now. Most of my presentations, however, would be dedicated to the Bill on State Administration, because I believe our citizens will be in the most direct position to feel the positive effects of changing the Law on State Administration. In fact, this law provides for the state administration to become a service of citizens, not a mere instrument of government, and thus it will become more efficient. Most globally, our citizens will no longer have to spend their days waiting in line to finish what they came for, but will be able to do so in a relatively short time. This is one of the basics of this law, which provides that unnecessary paperwork, long lines and waitings become the past. One of the grounds for the more efficient work of the state administration is certainly the Law on Electronic Signature, which this assembly proposed several months ago and adopted. The e-signature law even allows our citizens, for example, not to go to the tax administration to report taxes, but to do so by filling in and delivering tax returns via the Internet. Changes in the state administration are a necessary condition for further economic reforms. We know that in our government there is, but not enough, professional, experienced personnel; we especially lack young and educated people who are motivated to work. All of this has an insufficient quality of service provided by the state administration, and hence, permanently continuing to create a negative picture of the state administration as one parasite part of the state that creates nothing. In order for the state administration to become a real service to citizens, it is necessary to carry out its depoliticalisation and professionalisation. It is precisely the draft state administration law that envisioned a reduction in the degree of politicisation of the state administration, as it predicts that the only political figure, apart from the ministry's minister, will be the state secretary, or current deputy minister. All other officials will be professional civil servants, who will be elected on the basis of a public competition and for a period of time. How easily political change can affect the work of the ministry itself best shows the shift of a minister who must inevitably lead to the replacement of all management personnel in one ministry, which will also have a negative impact on the system of the ministry's work organisation, as well as on the system of early reforms within it. It is also necessary to create a well-trained, efficient and responsible state administration, and we can achieve this if we pay sufficient attention to the impartial and objective selection of personnel, their permanent training, the establishment of a system of motivation in rewarding, the establishment of an adequate profit system and, of course, their control and accountability. All these changes that these two draft laws provide are aimed at creating from a civil servant a person who will always be at the service of the citizens, because, in the end, a civil servant and exists because of him, which, of course, has the effect that this is the goal of the state administration itself. In order to begin the overall process of reforming the state administration, it is necessary to adopt both the Government Bill and the State Administration Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15146	The word has a folk MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, and as far as I can tell, she's not here. Then I give my word to Mrs. Gordani Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15147	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have two before us, to call them status laws. The minister has promised us some more laws, a law on the salaries of civil servants or civil servants, another law on state officials' status issues, but he has not promised us the law on the capital that is most necessary for us, given that two million people live in Belgrade after all, that we have 17 city municipalities, which are completely powerless to take care of the problems of their citizens, and related to the efficiency of the state administration itself that you potential through this law as one of the reasons for adopting this law. If we wanted an effective state administration, then we'd have to finally get the status of the capital. What I'm afraid of is that there are indications in this law that someone has to do something, but without proper sanctions, and also in the Law on Local Self-Government that we have to bring about the capital within a certain time period, so no one has brought it, and yet suffers no sanctions, except for the citizens of Belgrade, who are obliged and obliged to suffer ineffectiveness of the city's municipalities. And their hands are completely tied, given that both the knife and the cake in the capital, which doesn't have to and won't, but simply can't be effective, given the size and size of the territory and the number of city municipalities, so most often we don't get angry, we're just disappointed that from one center we can't handle this big city. So we ask you first of all, if you are in favour of the efficiency of the state administration, to go before this parliament as soon as possible with the law on the capital, and then to show in part that we are in favour of making the state administration as effective as possible. What my colleagues before me have made as a remark, and what I shall do again in some way, avoiding many repetitive acts, and I will only repeat myself in the part where I think you should pay attention to our amendments, both of these laws deserve to be laws that will last for many years, because it has already become a practice for each government to come out two or three times in the course of its mandate with such laws or amendments and additions to these laws, which cannot contribute to any quality. I understand that the government is interested in government law, as the National Assembly was interested in the Law on the National Assembly, but there was no consensus on it. It's probably easier for the government to reach that consensus. It is clear that these issues must be properly arranged, because state institutions, such as the National Assembly, above all, and then the Government and others, must have a circled normative arrangement, because if we do not respect these state institutions, then we do not respect our own state. We have expressed our suspicions here on several occasions that certain solutions of a future constitution are being prejudged, which is obviously on a long stick, and for five years now we cannot reach some consensus, there is no willingness in certain political factors to complete this work, so perhaps for that reason and in this law you have exceeded the framework of the existing Constitution, first of all I am referring to Article 71 and Article 94, proposing some solutions that may be something beyond what the Constitution is now prescribing. But if the law is passed in this form as you have suggested, without any changes, maybe this inefficient Constitutional Court will take it into consideration, and maybe it won't. In any case, there will be a clue that someone may have asked him to plead on certain provisions. It's also the fact that we went the other way, not only by proposing these laws before we solved constitutional matter, you went according to this assembly with the proposal for a law on ministries, which also poses a certain part of the interference for individual solutions under both of these laws. Why is it so, I can't judge, you probably know better. When it comes to the Ministry Act, we in the SRS haven't really gotten in much to prove to you that something needs one way or the other. We believe that each government has the right to arrange both the number of ministries and the part-round of their work as it thinks it will work best, and that should be left to every government. When it comes to the government law, this should require the broadest consensus and indeed take into account all that the MPs propose to change the amendment eventually, so that we have one law on government that would apply for a longer period of time. We are aware of the fact that the ineffectiveness of the state administration is in a certain sense and the consequence of negative selection thanks to low wages in the state administration, but this is a problem that the government itself must face with regard to the number of civil servants. If the exact number, which has been presented here today, is close to 300,000, considering those officers working in the government, local self-government, special organisations and public enterprises, and that they are all mostly on the budget and that officials who burden each taxpayer, and given that we have millions of unemployed, millions of pensioners and apparently some million who work, and of those millions if the budget is 300,000, then we have a really rotten state, which would say. There is now what is very unpopular, and what is suggested is a reduction in the number of officials. We need to be aware that we can't just pile up a clerk's apparatus while our economy is standing completely or there's no possibility of taking over surpluses from other industries and from the state administration. You're saying here you're pushing for the full depolitisation of civil servants. Believe me, I'd like to get into a situation like this to achieve it, but it's almost impossible in today's conditions, when politics is dealt with by every man both in his working time and in his spare time, when everyone is burdened with politics. You have a situation where, like you suppose, you've found inadequate service, you don't have a proper profession, you don't have experts you can rely on, you need to hire some new ones in a completely different structure, you have extra labour, and if you want to fire anyone, everyone will say that political rematch is. You can get this someone to frame you and you don't want to be effective, to keep the subject in the drawer for a month, to tell the parties everything negative about the state official, and you're responsible for every official and everything that comes out of your ministry, as well as us in local self-government, as well as my colleagues who are in a situation to do some new systematization regulations, and then this same civil servant says to the party - to the president of that party, if you're not satisfied with what they can do to you. So you need to find mechanisms to force a civil servant to be professional, or how to treat, how to sanction that unprofessionalism. I suppose that you might be solving this in some other law proposals, but this law on the state administration had to have that in mind, because it was overprotected by officials in that sense that you had to put up with an inert and inefficient state administration without having any mechanism that you could change that. It's not enough what you've proposed in this state administration law, with an explanation that you want an effective state administration this way. This way we can't get it, until we find the instruments that everyone is responsible for their actions and that his work is measurable, rewarded, and also punished anyone who doesn't work. That whoever comes to some political post, who draws responsibility for everything that's done, can be responsible for that job. In addition to these weather mistakes that we have pointed out to you, which I do not think you will have any objections and that you will easily adopt through the adoption of amendments, you have one major failure with Article 14 of the Bill on State Administration, where you are completely forgetting inspection supervision as something that the authorities are doing. In Article 14, you do not talk about it, although you say in Article 18 that inspection supervision is governed by a special law, but that does not mean that it does not fall under the affairs of the state administration. Then, you enter new terms against which we have basically nothing, you can call the Deputy Minister any way you want, let him be the Secretary of State. It is a new name, but a state official appointed and resolved by the Government on a proposal from the Minister and whose duty ceases to be the minister, who assists the minister in all these powers he himself, must, of course, be treated adequately in this law, almost exactly the same as the minister. As for the assistant ministers and all other officials, you propose for them, but not only in this law, we have noticed it through these laws, that their term takes five years and we simply don't understand why it is so if it is known that the mandate of a government takes four years. What happens after the term of office of the minister, and remains a five-year-old assistant minister, who allegedly is not a political figure, but he always is, and then there may be some problems in the functioning of the state administration's own body, primarily the ministry. For the ministry, any, the fact that there are no secretaries is simply unacceptable in view of the work of the secretary, and then we don't understand why in article 26 you predict that the ministry can have a secretary, instead of standing loud and clear that the ministry has to have a secretary, because I don't know who would do these jobs for him. Which minister wouldn't decide if he had a secretary? As far as special advisers of ministers and councils of ministers are concerned, I know that exists in many European countries. According to us, since the Council of Ministers is outside the Authority of Administration and has an advisory role, we are of the opinion that the minister can consult whoever he wants outside the ministry, in the ministry only with officials and civil servants. And if there's a place in this law, it's probably the consequence and the need to establish here as new organs, if they can call themselves that at all, because of what I said before, that the ministries are quite hollow, some of the sorry colleagues who work in the ministries, because of this negative staff policy that's been going on for years and because of the spilling out of all the people that are worth something, and then the minister, he didn't want to, there are no other mechanisms, forced to take counselors and experts who are willing to help him, out of the mere need to function, if he doesn't have any associates who can support him. But it's still something that has to be solved in a different and more comprehensive way. He may get rid of some new pay law, but until the economy strengthens us, until we have a strong economy and we increase the number of employees, those who generate income, we will have neither a professional nor an efficient administration, that's for sure. One more remark on this law, the education of administrative districts and other district units provided for in Article 40. There is a feeling that you will not form administrative districts if this law is adopted on a territorial basis, that is, as provided for by the Law on Territorial Organization, that you will seek some new associations of local self-government, in order to operate this transitional state body between the ministry and local self-government. Now again, the issue of the capital, which is treated as a district under the Law on Territorial Organization, which I am not sure we have a mechanism to force him to set up, and whether you will at all set up, an administrative district for the city of Belgrade, to make it more efficient, given who should do the advice of the administrative district. Also, I believe that you have a failure in Article 44, where you do not foresee the obligation to issue an act on the ministry's systematization of jobs in the "Official Messenger", because all other lower state bodies, therefore at local level, have to do so, so we do not see why this would not be available to the public in this way when it comes to ministries. It is a very discriminatory member of Article 47(2) where you predict that "the supervision of the legality of work is being examined by law enforcement and other general acts, and the supervision of the purpose of work – the effectiveness and economy of work and the purpose of business organisation. "The right to tell you is quite confusing, and it leads to some conclusion that there is room and volunteerism, and some personal impression and subjectivism, there are no measurable elements there, which can show us that it will be someone and who will determine the purpose or effectiveness. So you should consider this amendment, which is given to Article 47. As for the government law, Article 5 of Article 2 provides that the government may authorise its member to have part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. It's unacceptable for us, not only because we have in mind who can get into the opportunity to be a minister, so far we've had all kinds of different, disowning themselves and the politics of the party that brought them here. It must remain the exclusive right of the government as a collective organ. To rule over the authority of one of its members, who knows why, under which pressure and blackmail, he can dispose of the property of the Serbian state, it is absolutely unacceptable. I've taken a lot of time for my colleagues, and we're going to have quite a number of amendments to everything I've been meaning to say on the government bill, so you're going to be able to hear the remarks and hope that you'll have a hearing for all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15148	I thank Mrs. Pop-Lazic. The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15149	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as has already been said from this pay phone, MPs of the Democratic Party will not support and will not vote for any of the proposed laws, for the reason we believe these laws are not good. In particular, the government law represents before the amendments and additions to the law already passed in this assembly in 1991, with amendments and additions in 1993. We think it's been a long time since then, and a lot of circumstances have been changed, so the law should have been the right time in which we are, not to represent amendments and additions to the law since 1991. Also, we believe, and that is what our MP Gordana Komic said, that this law is written in a rather incomprehensible way, so that it is difficult for even lawyers to understand, and that ordinary citizens should not even be spoken of. The reasons why we won't vote for this law, as far as we're concerned, I would say three categories: the first category of why we won't vote for this law is that the law has rightly prescribed certain provisions of the Constitution, and we don't think there is a need for that, because the Constitution has already regulated it, and on the other hand there are some provisions that are contrary to the existing Constitution. So what's prescribed in the Constitution is Articles 1, 2, 3, 8, 15 and 16, and, contrary to the Constitution, Articles 6, 17 and 22. I will briefly say something about the 6th and 22th members, although they are well spoken of by the opposition MPs. Therefore, Article 6 allows the government, if it considers that some acts by the assembly of municipalities or the circuit assembly are not in agreement with the Constitution, to suspend them from execution, but that the government may raise the issue of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court within 15 days. There's a normal question here, whether the government has that authority and whether the government can stop doing something she thinks is anti-constitutional. We think that only the Constitutional Court can say that something is unconstitutional, that the government cannot do it and that what the government can do maximum is that, if it considers it unconstitutional, it immediately raises the issue of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court. The question of what will happen if the government does not initiate the procedure within 15 days, or, if it initiates the procedure, it is even worse and harder variant, and the Constitutional Court assesses that these acts are an assembly of municipalities, either the Republic or the circuit assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Who will then bear responsibility and who will compensate for the possible damage caused by abolishing constitutional solutions. So it's not in the law, and so we think it's against the law, and this should be deleted. As for Article 22, there's been a lot of talk here about that member. He gives the Prime Minister a proposal to dismiss the minister, and until the National Assembly decision, the minister cannot exercise his powers, but is taken by a member of the government that is headed by authority. So we think that here the Prime Minister is taking over the powers of the Republic Assembly, namely us MPs in this assembly. Namely, the Prime Minister and Minister of the government are electing and resolving, which is defined by the Constitution, exclusively by the Assembly. It is here that the Prime Minister is given the right to appoint a minister at one point. So, we think it's illegal, that it can't and only the Minister and Prime Minister can choose the Assembly, and it's impossible for the Prime Minister to take over the powers of the Republic Assembly. The next group of issues we have no agreement on and why we think we should vote against is what the proposed laws take over from some other laws, say, the Law on State Administration or the Labour Act. When I mentioned the Labour Act, I would like to say that it shows the relationship of the Republic government, or individual ministers to this House. You remember a few months ago in this assembly, we passed the Labour Act, and the president of the state went to a completely different text, so the text that we didn't adopt. Someone dared to change, not to use the harsh word, to falsify the Labour Act, and there are indications, and this was said to have been attended by a minister, or that a minister had gone from here to a completely different text. It shows this relationship that the Republic government has with the National Assembly, that it is more important than the Republican congregation. The third thing I want to talk about is that the Republic Government is trying this law, and if this text is adopted in this proposed form, then the Republic Government will interfere in the jurisdiction of the Assembly. This applies to members of the 18th and 19th proposed law. Article 18 states: "At least 20 MPs can propose to the National Assembly that non-trust be voted upon by the government. From the submission of the proposal to the non-trust vote, it cannot go beyond three or more days. The government voted not to trust most of the votes of the total number of MPs." Similarly, Article 19 speaks. This practically means that the government is taking over the authority of the Assembly again. So this is a question for the National Assembly, this is a question that needs to be regulated by the Law on the National Assembly. Many MPs today spoke of the need to adopt the Law on the National Assembly in the shortest time. I hope that we will do so very quickly and in this way, and hopefully, if we adopt a good law, we will put a lot of solutions from the government law out of force in some way, because in Serbia, the parliamentary system, which rests on three branches of government, on legislative, executive and judicial issues, which should, by theory, be independent of each other. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, they are not independent of each other, from my presentation and from the presentation of many MPs before me, it is clear that the Republic government wants to compromise both on the judiciary and on the legislative authority. We hope that the government will give up on this, and my proposal, and the proposal of most opposition MPs, is that the government withdraws this law and, after the adoption of the Law on the National Assembly, adopts one more appropriate and better law on the Government. Perhaps then MPs of the Democratic Party will vote for the law. We have heard in the previous words that DS MPs want to vote in favour of this government law if the government accepts a lot of the amendments we have submitted. In his opening statement, however, the government has accepted a number of amendments, it seems to me that this is not the case with DS amendments, most of these amendments have been rejected and, I repeat, DS MPs will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15150	Thank you, Mr. Giddyup. The People's Messenger Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Milos Glisic is prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15151	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these two laws are in fact the continuation of one serious reform of the state administration that we started, remember, the Law on Public Agencyes. If you make a parallel with that law you'll find a clear repetition of the same principles, which are principles, then I was talking about it, exactly that new public management that's been developing for the last 30 years in Europe. These laws do not constitute a alignment with European legislation, because there is no such thing at EU level. Aki communitre established standards, and already there are a whole series of principles set up by the European Court of Justice and there is an experience different in individual EU countries, so everyone in their national administration developed the model that suits him the most. As a matter of fact, I won't be long, the goal is for the state administration to become professional, professional, effective and clearly separate political and administrative functions. This is achieved in most of these institutions, i.e. the authorities, whether they are management bodies within the ministry, i.e. different inspections and directors, special organisations, secretariats, institutions or administrative districts. I don't want to talk about the details. We'll talk about the amendments when we talk about it. What is the essence of these laws, and in particular the state administration law, is that here challenged, according to one colleague, a famous depolitisation. Unfortunately, this depolitisation is being challenged by those who, during the previous period, maximumly politicised the state administration and excluded any democracy, alleviated management technology, or management technology, and allow me to use the term, on the pre-miljuscic system of politburo. Because what was the DOS presidency but a politician, what was the government to the only institution that made parliament a front, completely subdued it. These laws are a sign of good faith and the reform character of this government, which goes clearly with its reforms towards the users of state administration services, i.e. a citizen, who will get, I said, a professional, effective and good service for all of the money he is making to finance the state. This service of citizens is the ultimate goal of this reform of the state administration. I'm going to talk more eventually about certain amendments that are contrary, and there is a misunderstanding here of the essence of the new public management. I want to say in the end, that the New Serbia and SPO parliamentary club will fully support these laws, as well as any subsequent reform laws that will continue to modernise the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15152	Thank you, Mr. Stamenkovic, although it is difficult to compare DOS politbiroom to KPJ, let alone others. There's a word from MP Milos Disic, the SRS. Here you go. Mr. Sarovic, you're after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15153	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable ministers, honourable MPs, on the agenda of the National Assembly, there are two laws: a bill on government and a draft law on state administration. Dear Ministers, as before, this government is working on a warrant outside and bringing legal solutions to the shortcut, not taking care of what kind of laws we really need at a given time and moment. We always run faster than time, so the end results are always negative. What exactly is this about? We can't accept something that's a systematic solution when it's working and moving from something special to principle, but it usually goes the other way. The basic lack of these two laws is that the error was made at the very beginning i.e. in the concept of the law, and that the concept is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that this law will not be applicable precisely because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must first be passed, and only then do these two laws relating to the Constitution, which says that the Constitution will not be soon, and that means that the ruling coalition is afraid to vote. The brakes for the concept of this law are the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the pursuit of something that must be achieved by these laws because it is a given obligation. And when something has to be done, it's actually really hard to be good. These two laws do not make it clear whether the government is going to decentralisation or introducing even stronger centralisation. In order for these two laws to be good, in order to have their strength, and in practice to revive, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia must first be adopted. Why has the Constitution not been passed, this Nakarad coalition must give an answer. This is how we're going to have big problems in legal practice when we apply these laws. Whoever was reading this law saw that he was unreasonable and unspoken, it seems to me that there was only good will and intention to pass this law. No more than that. It can only be improved if the Serbian Radical Party's amendment is adopted. Mr. Minister, I do not enter your expertise and knowledge, although I do know that you are a professor at the university and that you were born in Indjia, I only know that you have not passed the most important exam from the most difficult case, and he is from the district of the government, the subject – the Ministry of Local Self-Government. What exactly is this about? I'll just remind you for a moment, and you are, I'm sure, familiar with the situation in your hometown and the criminal acts of that time, as well as the current president of the Indji municipality, Mr. Goran Jesic. I think it was in someone's interest for this man to sit in the President's chair today, so he can continue the robbery of Indji municipality citizens. He was a protégé of that evil government of the "yellow", i.e. Bojan Pajtic, and now it seems to me that he is a protected vermin which is deep within the citizens of India at this given moment. I'm going to give you a series of examples of how money was spent from the Indji municipality's budget and poured out into criminal flows or pockets, where you, Mr. Minister, were also familiar with the government before you. Now I ask the question - if you knew, why did you quietly approve? If you are not, I will forward you the material from which you will clearly see all the allegations that I will give you in short lines. Mr. Minister, it would be clear to me as a Serbian radical that we've been introducing you and writing criminal charges against this non-man, who loves money more than himself without you reacting. But it's completely unclear to me that your members of the DSS, or the Indji Municipal Committee, and the Democratic Party, have been writing criminal charges to you. I'd like you to reassure me of all this and give me hope that you will pass this exam before the people and the citizens of India from your ministry. What exactly is this about? Crimes took place from the following areas: the construction of the regional sewerage of Indji - Stara Paz - Batajnica; the reconstruction of the Sokolski dom (i.e. one cinema hall), where the over-investment from the start and won in the tender of 15 million to 45 million, which is 300%, and all these investments exceeded 50 to 300% of the imagined figure, the sum of money, and those that passed in the public tender; the construction of the "Fast" cigarette factory. We have more information in this area, although I'm not going to mention them all, I'm going to orderly hand over the papers so I don't take time from the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, so I'm going to skip what it's really about, because you're going to have it here in the documents. What is most illogical and dangerous is the illegal and unintended use of funds from the Indji municipality budget. Mr. Minister, all this has happened since 2000, I know you weren't responsible at the time, until today, and it continues today. For all these shops and slaloms you knew everything, and you didn't do anything, although you were asked by the people of your party to introduce a forced administration in the Indji municipality at the end of 2004. For a reminder just to tell you that the municipal budget from 2000 to 2005 was about two billion dinars, that about 500-600 million were installed in India, and for the rest of the money there is no telling where it is. I'm asking you, do you know where he is? After the DSS and DS, the SRS continued to write criminal charges and print a speciality of "Great Serbia", where we meet the citizens of India and Serbia about these slaloms and the robbery of the money of the people of India. That the devil does not rest, and that the desire for money is stronger, the current, current activity of Mr. Goran Jesic around the Indji local community shows. It is known that the local community of Indjia carried out in the city, i.e. in the area of Srema, the largest investment to be treated as a capital investment. By taking over the local community from the Socialists and the JUL in June 2004, the Serbian Radical Party reduced the cost of performing domestic connections by 50%, and this capital investment will end three and a half years earlier than planned, and instead of 2010 we will end it in 2006. We're going to save about 500 million dinars and no wonder why now it's been thrown around to take over the meat community from the radicals. This money is necessary to cover that budget failure and the debt of the Indija municipal budget by 120%, approximately. I hope you're familiar with all these events and that after this intervention, from this assembly payphone, you'll take a little more care of the local self-government in India. I'll hand this over to you, but just to read that Mr. Lalovic yesterday, at the promotion of the Family Law in Novi Sad, brought out a nebulose which does not stand as a minister, does not serve him the honor, that in the application of this law should be done the opposite of what the radicals want and that there will be no failure in those who enforce this family law. I call on Mr. Lalovic here to explain what it means to him, because the Serbian Radical Party cannot be calm until he hears this from him. Mr. Minister, I'm handing you this file, with these documents, so you can see what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15154	Mr. Breather, thank you. I'm sorry, Mr. Sarovic, you'll talk about the amendment. Your friends and friends used their time. This list has ended the discussion, both in time and in the list. The word has been made by Minister Loncar, before we move on to a discussion in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15155	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the reason I'm reporting for the word is a brief discussion of the MP, regardless of the fact that this speaker has been used in one part of the exposure to a topic that is not related to the subject of our debate today. Because of the content of this presentation, I would only like to introduce to the Members of the People's Parliament the fact that it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to control the legality of the functioning of all units of local self-government, in accordance with the Law on Local Self-Government. So far, by calling on that law, no case, no citizen, no MP from that Indji municipality himself, has arrived in this ministry during my term of office. I invite you, if you have any irregularities regarding the application of the Law on Local Self-Government, to address. What you have presented here now concerns irregularities related to the spending of some of the funds that are in the jurisdiction of some other authorities, not only within the government of Serbia, but above all by the judicial authorities. As a man who has always fought, while I am in politics and outside politics, for the legal use of funds and for the detection and prosecution of all illegal forms of spending, I call on you, and I believe you will, to address the competent authorities, and in the local environment where you are, and here at the republican level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15156	I thank Minister Lonchar. Milos Disic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15157	I assume Mr. Minister was born in India, that he lived and that he still has parents there, and that he knows the situation in India. In that part, I would just like to say that in 2003, when he was not a minister, but that ministry should continue to work, no matter who previously exercised that power, that power in India continues and today, is the same coalitions and are all those who did the wrong. They were in the ministry, intervened, and were given answers from the ministry that some meetings of the municipality's assembly were held against the law, and that they could not be maintained, and that some of the things in these areas that I had handed over were invalid. What happened? The Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia were in power in India in 2002. They set up a public prosecutor to be suspended. At the beginning of this year, the public prosecutor was returned to his post. They couldn't find anything for him. In those two or three years, as far as Mr. Public Prosecutor Vrekic was away, many things happened without criminal charges being filed. You have over 400 criminal charges with the DA, which are now ending and running. That's why you may not have been familiar. The man who served as a public prosecutor did not do so according to regulations and laws. So there was this misunderstanding, that maybe you weren't familiar and that they didn't want to know. Don't let me remind you of the crime scene today in India. I remind you once again, if we take 2000 to 2005, what are the budget funds, and only 500 million dinars have been installed in India. I'll draw you a number where the rest of the money is. All investments exceed 50 to 300%. So, the budget is due, the budget is 120%, and you know it can't be more than 25%. The departments were familiar, the DAs were familiar, someone had to do the job. If the political parties have to, then let us appoint a public prosecutor, and the judiciary, and the prosecution, and the M.O.P., and it will be dealt with quickly. As far as the SRS is concerned, it'll be settled in a month, we'll have a clean and clear situation. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15158	You can't, Mr. Sarovic. You want to do business? Let me see what you want with the Rules of Procedure, and then you'll see if you can. By what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15159	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15160	Are you in the O.R.?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15161	Of course I did, Mr. Angelkovic, a card was inserted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15162	Now, right now. Mr. Sarovic, to be very precise, now the People's MP, Ms. Radeta, has inserted your card, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15163	Did I get my word?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15164	By what member of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15165	Mr. Angelkovic, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure has my obligation to tell you in advance by which member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15166	Yes, read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15167	Tell me what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15168	Read the Rules of Procedure, then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15169	Of course, I read it, but if you think I broke it, when I'm done, you go ahead and tell me which provision I broke, so I'll explain that I didn't. He was injured, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 82(2), which says: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly exists if at least one third of the MPs are present at the session. "Although it was obvious that some 70 MPs were present somewhere, you did not consider it, and you were obliged to take a break, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 28 paragraph 1 of the third indent, you were obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15170	Mr. Sarovic, first of all, I'm saying I've seen over 130 MPs in the O.R. The second thing, Mr. Sarovic, if you have expressed your suspicion, both with glasses and no glasses, I see, in determining the number of MPs in the Assembly, in order to do so, an authorised representative would have to express his suspicion. You can do this visually, but according to the Rules of Procedure, it has no effect on the determination of the quorum. Therefore, we continue to work. Nemanja Sarovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15171	Mr. Angelkovic, what you have visually determined, what can be done to you, cannot really be valid for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 82(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, the quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system, so that each MP is obliged to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting the identification card into the MPs' units. The next item 5 says that if the electronic voting system is not in place, which is what the president, or the chairman of the National Assembly, informs the MPs, the quorum is determined by counting the MPs. Which means, Mr. Angelkovic, if he wasn't in the function of the electronic system, you first had to inform the MPs about it, and then determine the quorum by counting the MPs. I would ask that you, as chairman, respect this Rules of Procedure. And secondly, it would be nice to really say on the basis of which member of the Rules of Procedure it is necessary for the authorised representative of the parliamentary group to warn of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Of course it's not regulated anywhere. If so, I invite you to read this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15172	Every MP has the right to object to the Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. When it comes to determining the quorum, the article you quoted reads: "If the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum established by the application of the electronic voting system, the president shall put into account the computer copy of the present Members of Parliament. If the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, it may request that the quorum be determined by the denunciation of the MPs, etc." Currently, there are enough MPs on the electronic voting system and visually in the hall. And I mean, you're a young man and you see well, that's an absolutely sufficient number of MPs present. And I see you here, so I don't see any reason to continue this debate. I think we should move on to the amendment debate. Here you go, Mr. Sharovich, do you have anything else? I am the chairman and I make sure I see all the MPs. I wouldn't want to miss someone in the O.R. Since I notice all of you, then I see there are over 130 MPs here. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15173	Mr. Angelkovic, attitude 6 you may have read well, but you obviously did not get it very well, because here it says - if the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of the quorum established by the application of the electronic system. Of course it never occurred to me to do that. I just came out to warn you that just by applying an electronic system, which I didn't doubt, it was found to be present in an O.R. less than 84 MPs. I only asked that what was determined by the application of the electronic system be respected, by setting a break until there were enough MPs in the room to continue our work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15174	I thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Since you see, and 130 MPs in the hall see that there are enough MPs on screens, then we can continue our work. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled review of the proposal for a law on government and a proposal for a law on state administration. We move to the 11th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE GOVERNMENT LAW (specificity) You have received the bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Gordana Pop-Lazic, Milorad Mirčić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Branislav Blažić, Milan Stevović and Gordana Komic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint principled search, under which the proposal for a government law has been discussed, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 2 and 2. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Komic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 3 and 3. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Here you go. Is your card in?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15175	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15176	Mr. Radosavljevic, I don't think there's anyone in the back row who put in the card, so please insert the first card. I see he's in the O.R., but I don't see him on the electronic voting system. Mr. Radosavlevich, so it won't be the next day if we were discussing outside the O.R., please insert your card. Now we can, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15177	Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the chairman, if she is so old as to apply the Rules of Procedure, to calm the Members of Parliament a little bit...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15178	It's peace, Mr. Radosavljevic. You're the only one who put the card in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15179	To Article 4. The bill was proposed by MP Gordana Comic, who submitted the amendment, saying: "The government represents the Republic of Serbia as a legal person. "What, in fact, did this amendment proposer of the amendment want to explain or specify? Article 4 The proposal for a government law says: "The government represents the Republic of Serbia as a legal person and in doing so exercises the rights and obligations that the Republic of Serbia has as its founder... "Defining the representation of the Serbian government concerns primarily the presentation of the government's views to some other institutions, whether domestic or international, in cases of disputes or the protection of the interests of the Government or the Republic of Serbia, or in cases where the Republic is treated as a legal person. The proposed positions in Article 4 of the Law that I have mentioned have no place in the government law, which we also pointed out in the principle of debate, because the text of the law does not correspond to what the motionor wanted to tell us or what he had as an idea, because in an inconsistencies and in an unethical way only gives inventory of some cases, where we believe they cannot be governed by this law. All cases of representation are governed by some laws that already exist and therefore there is no need for them to be specifically stated in this law. It is well known that the government represents the Republic of Serbia as a legal person and that is quite enough formulation, which will be clearly and precisely defined through the law. I call on the promoter to reconsider our amendment once more, so we will define more precisely who represents the government, or the Republic of Serbia as a legal person.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15180	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government suggests that this amendment is not accepted, the Justice and Administration Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15181	The problem with Article 4 is that there is a much better formulation in the existing Government Act. The title above that article is - The representation of the Republic of Serbia. At first, there are some things that need to be cleared up. The Republic of Serbia is a legal person, the government of the Republic of Serbia is exercising certain rights on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to property matters, it is authorised by law to decide on the use, management and availability of state resources, or resources in its Republic of Serbia. In this area, there is another republican authority which is also authorised, which is the Republic Public Defence. If I may say so, these are routine and serial things where a citizen sues the Republic of Serbia for damages, as a power of attorney, this Republic Public Attorney's office appears. Article 4 is a principle provision that speaks of representation when representing the Republic of Serbia. In these affairs, if I may bring it closer, the legal representative and the one representing the Government of the Republic of Serbia are, by law, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. You expanded attitude 1. So you said - and in doing so you exercise the rights and obligations that the Republic of Serbia has as the founder of a public enterprise, institutions and other organisations, if the law does not specify anything else. This is very important because in some companies, the Republic is the founder, in some companies the Republic has its own actions, has its share, and probably in such cases whoever makes those decisions that are ultimately at stake in making available in any variant is the Government, and after this law should be the Prime Minister, because it represents the Government. Since this is all obvious and regulated by existing regulations, and the Constitution is prescribed, then the unnecessarily position of the 2nd member and our intervention refers exactly to attitude 2, where it is said - for certain cases of representation of the Republic of Serbia, the government may authorise its member. It's a completely unnecessary provision. This provision can only bring confusion. I know what you meant, you meant the government's conclusion or decision on a particular issue, where the government will be represented by a minister, some resolution minister, not a Prime Minister. As you wrote, I am simply afraid that one of the ministers does not realize that, if a conclusion is reached, he generally represents the Republic of Serbia as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in some property affairs and avoids some kind of control, and otherwise can create a confusion in legal traffic. I think it's more useful that attitude two doesn't exist. Article 1 also deserves some remarks, but they are not as dangerous as what you wrote in Section 2. The normal thing is that when the Government of the Republic of Serbia decides on something and needs to determine who will represent the Government in talks, negotiations, agreements or other actions that can be considered as representation, to appoint a member of the Government to do so, but that is the matter of the Rules of Procedure, it is a matter of general provisions on representation and representation. This formulation can only create a particular confusion in practice and therefore we have suggested that Section 2 be deleted. By deleting Article 2, you do not question what you wrote in the previous position, but it is much clearer, more precise and does not allow everyone to interpret in their own way what it means to represent the Republic of Serbia through a member of the government. So that category still exists, it always existed, it will always exist, the government is a collegiate organ. Its decision can determine a member, there are no problems, and yet it is settled under the general rules, as well as the transfer of some of the original powers that one has. The Prime Minister may also represent, on behalf of the Government, any minister of power. It can, there's no interference, because if there's any interference, then even civil law shouldn't exist. I'm surprised you didn't accept this amendment, a team before it seems to me that this amendment is supported by the Justice Committee, with far less arguments than I've given here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15182	The word has an MP, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several members of this bill have been attacked in Serbian. And in the mildest form to present it, it seems to me that someone from the Austrian school wrote the bill, not to introduce it now into this or the last century, to remain for the last century. If we read the wording from the first attitude that says so, it says so – if the law does not define anything else. Now find me one man in Serbia who will say this - I will do this if the law does not define anything else. Where you read in one law, which is currently in our legal order, this formulation. We have met that the law is not different, and it is in the letter and spirit of our language, but if the law is not something else. There are 250 of us, and I'd like to ask an MP who's heard this form come out and say where he heard it, if he read to tell us where he read it. Surname above Article 6 - Oversight of constitutionality and legality. Mr. Minister, would you write it like this? Oversight of constitutionality and legality. The lecturer would say -- supervision of constitutionality and legality, he would say -- supervision of constitutionality and legality, but to say -- supervision of constitutionality and legality, that is so pointless. With so many legal grudges, with so many political grudges, we now need to pursue both the language and the letter of the bill. We need those who wrote this to return to primary school, but to that elementary school where we learn language or to tell us that this is not just accidentally translated out of some language and not fully adapted to our language, the language used by the Constitution in Serbia, to say by the Constitution of the SRJ, since this constitution knows the Serbian Croatian language. And I don't think there's a mistake, and there's experts saying there's one language, except they say the Croats didn't have their own language, but they got it from the Serbs. Please, one of you who is involved in this business has you who teach Serbian to children here, has you who give a lecture to large children and adult children, to go out for a pay phone, and to say whether this is in accordance with our grammar and spelling of Serbian or Serbian, I use both terms. Can you say, I'll do this if the law isn't something else, or at least say it's not something else, but you put in a crutch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15184	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 4a be added after article 4. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15185	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 4 and Article 5, contains one formulation that, at least as far as Article 2 is concerned, is totally unacceptable to us. Our proposal in this case, at least as far as existing laws are concerned, especially the Law on Assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, is far more precise, and we believe that the proposed solution is much better than that contained in Article 5. The bill, where according to the amendment, we found that the government had the property of state authorities and organizations in accordance with the law. The proposed text of the law offers us a different solution. Also, it contains this provision that my predecessor spoke of - if by law what else is not specified. Furthermore, in particular attitude 2, we find it unacceptable, for the very reason that there is already one law, the Law on assets in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. It is now said that the government can authorise its member to dispose of part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. We think it's absolutely unacceptable, it's absurd and it's more logically suggested a solution that we've made to this amendment. We have repeatedly pointed out the fact that there is a law on assets in the property of the Republic of Serbia, but as much as it bothers us, we have to realize that by coming from it in this case, if we want to adhere consistently to the legality, the more acceptable solution we have offered, than the Government through its part of the business and, in particular, in the job description, has taken over the existing law. Once again, I am surprised to find that the government has refused to accept an amendment which, apart from making the text of the bill far better, more precise, on the other hand harmonizes with the existing law that defines one such area.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15186	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15187	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a sense of the amendment submitted by the Democratic Party, but I am unable to say at this point what would be good enough to be accepted. I'm sorry, I don't abuse a pay phone, just one minute. Otherwise, it is in communication with the MPs and with the National Assembly completely outside of any normal language behavior, a letter that is not in official use, and in the worst possible way we receive acts that have not been translated. We get an act in English that isn't translated. We were humiliated by the fact that once, it was a joint session of this republican assembly and of that federal assembly, we had the opportunity to hear the exposés of the High Representative of the Council of Europe, who addressed us in the federal parliament in English, and there was no translator or simultaneous translation. One country and one nation preserve their dignity, among other things, in this way. The legal acts adopted by this assembly remain for history. I thank those who raised this question here today. We have an obligation to comply with the rules. Everyone has the right to speak in a language that is his and is perceived as his, which he understands, which his parents have spoken and which his children speak. This is the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. We are the People's MPs of the Serbian state and all acts coming from the government should be in line with what the rules of conduct are here. So please, Mr. Minister, I don't think it's a bad intention, that through the Institute of Legal and Technical Directorates this matter is being arranged in the way that is only possible and that we are taking care of it in the future. At the session of a assembly committee, we received an official act by a committee printed in Latin. I have nothing against it, but it can't be done in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has to be taken care of, and each of us has a duty to do so, because that's what all normal states do. I guess we want to live in a normal state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15188	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government proposes not to accept this amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15189	According to the Rules of Procedure, this amendment was to be first on the agenda, but it is obvious that today and otherwise, this meeting does not take account of the Rules of Procedure. So the amendment to Article 5. The proposal for a government law, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, reads that Article 5(2) is deleted. In fact, Article 5 speaks about the availability of the property of the Republic of Serbia and in the first position it is written that the government has the property of the Republic of Serbia, and then, this new speech, if the law is not set elsewhere; in that part, we did not intervene, although this new speech, or bad translation, does not only sound hornatious, but in the spirit of Serbian language, has a completely different meaning and meaning. This simply does not mean what the legislator intended to say. The second view of Article 5 states that the government can authorise its member to dispose of part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. This, my dear colleagues, is too dangerous, too dangerous for an honest government, let alone for the government and governments that have been operating in the Republic of Serbia for the last few years. This solution is simply unacceptable and surprising to me, Minister Loncar, that you did not accept that this attitude should be deleted. The explanation that you gave to the MPs in half, which is why this amendment was not accepted, is also some story around, and you essentially did not say what was meant by the amendment. Among other things, you say, "This solution comes from the very nature of things, given that the government is a collegiate body." This is exactly what I asked for with the amendment. I don't know why you explained to us that the government is a collegiate body. It's undeniable. That's why we think only a government can have, not an individual minister in the government. Or, lastly, you say, "By this rule, in any case, part of the property of the Republic of Serbia could have, on behalf of and on behalf of the Government, only one member of the government whose responsibilities are most linked to the procedures and actions to be taken in the context of the availability. "Do you want this law and this member to put an end to the National Savings Bank, in this way legalising what the Serbian government minister has now done with the property of the Republic of Serbia, turning the National Savings Bank into a private bank. This really looks like it to me. So, you're saying in the follow-up that the provision of Article 5(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The bill is necessary for the reason it lays down a rule according to which part of the property of the Republic of Serbia can be made available only by a member of the government, and not by other appointed or employed persons in ministries, special organisations and government services, if the special law does not, as you say, have otherwise specified. You've had a little bit of an individual minister's authority to be able to dispose, you're still explaining to us, you've protected this from going much wider. It's not a good solution, Minister. This is not a good solution for Serbia. Do you see which affairs in this government are open? They are all related to the illegal availability of property or part of the property of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about restructuring, future privatisation of public enterprises. Do you mean public enterprises individually to your colleagues or, God forbid, the Vice President of the Government to make yourself available? Minister Loncar, don't play games, you'll be responsible. Who are you going to let electro-price deal with her? Who's going to do the job from the government? It's dangerous for the government to get into that kind of business. Imagine someone individual having property that way. This is something that can, among the lines, be read, that these are trying to protect some already illegal actions. You know, Minister Loncar, and all colleagues know how long it's been going before the trade courts of cases related to illegal and criminal privatisations. You know how the state's action packages are. You know everything. The whole of Serbia knows that. You, instead of getting in the way of a legal solution in the future, are opening up the possibility that your very greedy colleagues, and you know it, will open up the possibility of using this law, that there will be a cabinet sitting there, as the 19th item of the agenda, which half of the ministers hear, half of them hear, that a decision be made to have an electro-priority, and that is, of course, he has never even divorced himself from his godmothers, Hamovic, Lazarevic and others, to finish the job. Where was the government, what was she doing, where is Serbia, where is the electricity industry? Eat the cat! Don't, Minister Loncar, this position of the second member of this law is dangerous to you. Pull this, accept this amendment, save what is to be saved that, your soul will go, we will call you every time, in any criminal, illegal case, in any affair that may be led under the second position of Article 5. And they'll be able to, believe me, we'll call you, even though I don't think you'll be involved in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15190	I thank Mrs. Radeta. The word is Mr. National MP Zoran Krasic. We've got four minutes to go by the end of the work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15191	Since I will not repeat the arguments of the predecessors, from all the above mentioned amendments to Article 5, I would just draw attention to the MPs that there is a big difference in these amendments and what is in the bill. If we go over these spelling and linguistic problems, then Article 5(1) should read: "The government has the property of the Republic of Serbia if the law or something else is not defined"; at least that it stands for such a formulation. This is perfectly normal, given that we have a relatively good Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. What stands as a danger to this amendment by the Democratic Party, to remind you, they suggest that the position is that the government has the property of state authorities and organisations in accordance with the law. There's danger. The government should have all state property, not just property owned by state authorities. What about the property given to local self-government units? What about property located in public services, public enterprises, institutions, etc.? I don't dispute that you're proposing this amendment and not the disputed fact that the government has some idea about the property of local self-government units. But there is no basis for such a thing in the Constitution. That is why there is danger if the Democratic Party's amendment is accepted. But there is an even greater danger if attitude 2 remains, where an individual is given to have, when it is written that a member of the government has a will, then that member of the government is the creator. He freely forms the will on behalf of the government, and I'm sure it wasn't the wish of the legislator of this law. That is why it is better that attitude 2 does not exist, because the collegiate body has its will to have formulates on the basis of a decision. If an act of availability should arise on the basis of some negotiations, then a member of the government has some restrictions to move in the process of agreement, talks, negotiations, and this formulation does not suffer, it is already very clear. She says there's an individual at his disposal. An individual can't afford it. A member of the government is not an organ. The body is a government and an individual cannot be available on behalf of an organ. That's why it's so much better to adopt this amendment, if you can get through the legal-technical order to take care of attitude one, then it would be even better, because then this member would look something like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-17-0.u15192	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you for your effective work.
