ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24198	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 95 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOSE OF THE HIPOTECI (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Jovan Palalić, Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Koprivica, Vojislav Milajić, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Milovan Radovanovic, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, Miljko Čevrić, Milan Stevović, Nenad Mitrović, Veroljub Arsić, Stevica Dedjanski, Darko Glišić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Natasa Jovanovic, Momir Marković, Bore Kutić and together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović. You received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Jovan Palalic submitted the title above Article 1 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? I see the amendment is accepted by the minister. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, the word has the People's MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24199	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law in Article 1 and the title above Article 1 provides for the subject matter and purpose of the law. A colleague, Palalic, has submitted an amendment to this member of the law, in fact, to the title above Article 1, where he asked to delete "and the aim of the law" and that it should only stand for "the subject of the law", which is more precisely adopted. In Article 1 The bill provides: "This law regulates the mortgage, in order to secure the claim, and establish the central mortgage records". The SRS has tabled an amendment to this article and asks for this member to be changed and read: "This law regulates the burden on the real stock in favour of the trustee (hypothecary) and establishes the central mortgage records." This amendment wanted to specify the subject matter of the law and to define it more precisely and not to touch the essence of the law itself and the concept of the mortgage. We simply intervened with the amendment to specify the subject and to indicate that the mortgage is indeed the right one, where the stock refers to the immovableity. We believe that this amendment does not affect the essence of the law. We're just predicting the subject of a mortgage, the concept of an object of a mortgage. We think the proposer of this law might adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24200	Please, the word is Minister Parivodić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24201	Thank you for the amendment, Mr. MP. I believe your proposal leads to the combination of both the subject and the concept of the mortgage in article 1. We have already been defined in Article 2 by the termhypotheques, and this is a practical, duplication of the definition, of which the first in Article 1 is incomplete. I believe that Article 1 should be dedicated only to the subject of law, and Article 2 only to the concept of law. That's why I think it's better to keep the text as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24202	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24203	I just need to confirm what's in the amendment and deny what the minister says. Let's take a healthy look at the difference. Article 1 The bill, which had the title "The Matter and Purpose of the Law", adopting the amendment of Jovan Palalic "and the objective", was deleted, reads: "This law regulates the mortgage to secure the claim". In the first article you entered into the definition, one of the elements of the definition of mortgage. You do that, then it's normal, and when we use it the same way, then we go into a matter that's regulated by Article 2. It's a bill of law. It's not exactly what you're saying. "This law regulates the mortgage, in order to secure the claim, and establish the central mortgage records," that is your formulation. Our formulation reads: "This law regulates the burden of a real stock in favour of a trustee (hypothectical) and establishes a central mortgage record." As you can see, you're saying it's a means of security of claim. And you're potentiating the accessorship of the mortgage. Everything is also contained, only in a much clearer and more precise way in the variant proposed by the SRS. As far as Article 1 goes into the definition of a mortgage, so did we, in the definition of a mortgage, which is necessary to state what is the subject matter of the law. If I'm not clear enough, there's only one and the other, and they're both practically synonyms for the same thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24204	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24205	I expected, Mr. Chairman, that at the beginning of this debate in particular we would get at least information on whether the amendments were adopted, which were adopted, and I apologize, if it was divided in the meantime, and I didn't get it. If there is a Government opinion, it would be best to read it, to see which amendments were adopted, which are not, so that we know how to direct this search. This is how it's possible for us to explain the amendment and then the minister comes out and says - the amendment adopted. It is not a function of the efficiency of the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24206	Mr. Krassic, you're absolutely right. I have the minister's approval that he'll come out and say which amendments were adopted, so I'm acting rationally with time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24207	Since we don't have it in writing, I say maybe somebody got it, I didn't. This is the central member of this whole bill. He has the title "The concept of a mortgage" and I have to say that the government has resorted to a strange definition of the concept of a mortgage. For this definition, I'm telling you that you can't find her in any textbook at law school, not in Belgrade, not in Nis, not in Kragujevac. You can't even find this definition in any free comment. You cannot find that definition, but what the SRS suggests will be found in every law school textbook in Serbia's territory. What's he looking at? In the definition offered by the Government, we have a kind of interference between the rights and duties of creditors and the rights and duties of debtors. It creates not only a confusion, but a proper inaccuracy. We propose by amendment that Article 2 reads: "The mortgage is, as a means of ensuring a certain trustee's claim, a burden on the real stock in favour of the trustee, which the trustee (hypothecary truster) has been authorised to demand, in the manner provided for by this law, the settlement of his claim from the value and the immobility before the trustees who do not have a mortgage on it and before the creditors who have acquired the mortgage on it after him, regardless of the change in the owner's loaded immovableity. "It is a standard definition of a mortgage that has been valid in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for decades. In that definition proposed by the Government, there is not even a word of "the" to determine closer that it refers to the value of this immovableity, the concrete immovableity that is burdened with this type of stock. I am simply surprised that the minister as a representative of the government on this agenda, according to the location of the university's law professor, does not see this difference and does not see what quality is on the side of that definition offered by this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24208	Minister, Mr. Parivodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24209	Thank you, Mr. Krasic, for this amendment. My fundamental objection to this amendment has two parts. One is that your definition of mortgage does not say that the mortgage will be activated if the debt is not paid, but says - according to this law. Under this law, it will be activated, and it does not say - if the debt is not paid, and I think it is indeed one of the essential elements of the definition of mortgage. Secondly, your amendment contains actually one inaccuracy that does not fit into the system's legal solution, and it is looked at in the next. This law provides for a special procedure for the efficient sale of immovable property. However, no one is forcing the trustee and the debtor to go that way. If they do not want to go into this brief procedure, they can go into the procedure provided for by the Implementing Procedure Act. You have limited the mortgage to this definition only to this procedure, which this law regulates and derogates the procedure of the Implementing Procedure Act. And you know that the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Laws regulated the mortgage in a general way, and right now this law is substituting the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations to be abolished, so that you would practically derivate the procedure under the Law on Executive Procedure. I cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24210	Mr. Krassic, do you want a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24211	I'm reading your writings here. You just forgot one thing. When you passed this law, you threw out a whole chapter of the Law on Fundamentals of Property Relations relating to the mortgage. Don't apply to the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, because in your performance of it in those nine provisions and no more. The second inaccuracy, when it is said that the mortgage is a means of securing the claim and potentiating the accessorship of the institute and it is listed below that the mortgage trustee has a primate in charge, is thus also defined by the debt, i.e. the claim of the debtor that the debtor did not settle within the agreed deadline. It's all contained, Mr. Minister, which you say is a lack. It is inappropriate to make debt potential in the definition of mortgages. Debt is the main claim. This law does not regulate the main claim, but rather the mortgage as a means of security of claims and a very specific means of security based practically on immovable property. It's all contained what you say. You're saying that in this definition something is prejudged, and in that part, how the settlement of the claim is done and there's no principle of difference, and not even the terminology between your proposal that should look like a member of the 2nd and our proposal. They're almost identical. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: You say - procedures under this law. That's how you rule out the ZIP. You have given this very procedure in all of this law how to settle the demand by selling a loaded immovableity. You have a special one. We'll be there in an hour for those provisions you're talking about. That's exactly why we criticized you. You've introduced some new forms that can be arranged by triggering a mortgage past the court. This definition is not relevant and does not touch those provisions that we criticised you for in the principle debate. This is a definition that generally tells people who don't know what a mortgage is. That it is a means of security of claim in a way that burdens some immovableity and that a debt can be settled from the value of that immovableity when the debtor arrives. Very precise, very clear. If we need to convince ourselves about the basic concepts and to harass both MPs and viewers who are following this transmission around some professional terms, when some say - wait, what these are arguing about, we don't understand, then we don't want to participate in this debate. You know what a claim is, what a debt, what a mortgage is, and if you think you don't know it and you need to define it the way you planned it, then it's an honor. I immediately tell you that no provision of this law will be applied. Why do I tell you this? It would be very good if whoever is the real author of the text of this law, and I know that one has tried before, so he gave up on it, a professor of civil law who knew very well, he gave up on this, but the real author of this text has completely forgotten that the Law on Land Books, the rule of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia of 1930, is still in force in this country. The communists couldn't lift it either, they left it in effect. The law and day-to-day, land-books are being kept under that law, and today-day municipal courts according to that law are passing when they make appropriate interventions in the public book on immovable property. Now I can tell you, if you'd read that law, you wouldn't have made a mistake in 50% of the provisions in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24212	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government accepts the amendment. The title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24213	This is a termological distinction. The proposal for a law entitled above Article 3 sets out the subject matter of a mortgage. The SRS here referred to it as a publishing facility. So, definition of what a publishing facility is, what it belongs to, what a mortgage can be, what a property can be a mortgage. We have specified this by amendment and stated that it can be agricultural land, forests, forest land, city building and construction land, houses, buildings, business buildings and other buildings, auxiliary, economic and similar, apartments, business premises, garages, garages as special parts of the property, and thus cover all types of immovable property that can be an object of real estate. There is a conceptual difference between the draft law in Article 3 and the amendment tabled by the SRS. In the case of a mortgage, the legislator stated what the subject of the mortgage was, among other things in point 1), that it was an immovable matter, which is fine, so it states the right of property on a construction facility and the like. To the point. 2) and (3) refer to the parts of the immovableity in accordance with the decision on a deobi or co-ownership stake in the immovable matter. There is a problem because by its nature the mortgage is a legal institute that contains the indivisibility of the mortgage facility. The mortgage object itself can't be divisible. So the mortgage refers to the whole immovable thing, it can't refer to part of the immovable thing. The 1930 law, which regulates books and rights stemming from property rights and other real rights stemming from the book, lists the book as the smallest possible unit - in the land and book body. They didn't do it for nothing. It is not free to set up this system that the basic unit is a land-booked body and that the mortgage is placed on the whole land-booked body. So it can't be mortgaged into parts of the immovableity, but it has to be put on the entire immovableity and cover the entire immovableity. There's a mix-up here. 2) and 3), where the parts of the immovableity are listed according to the division and the co-owner's share in the immovable matter, where there are several co-owners who have a co-owner's share in the aliquots, means each of the co-owners has a share, but there is no real amount of whose share, but they are equally co-owners of the whole thing in certain percentages. It is illogical to allow one of the co-owners to mortgage without giving consent to another co-owner. There would be a confusion, that would be the reason for many disputes, long-term disputes about it, and the process of settlement itself. Other co-owners would thus be placed in an unequal position with regard to creditors and mortgage debtors. As far as point 5 is concerned, it states the right on land which contains the authority of free legal availability, and in particular the right to build, to prevent or dispose of construction in the state or social property, because this is mentioned here, because there is another category of social property in the Constitution, and it is prescribed directly from the Constitution, because there is still or there will still be some time of social property. But this is about mortgaged rights, not real estate, but rights. There's stock on moving things or a manual stock, there's stock on rights, and there's stock on real estate. That's the fundamental difference between mortgages and other stocks. Just because the stock is placed on the ground, it stresses the importance of the institute and the importance of both the mortgage trustee and the mortgage debtor and the rights and obligations arising from the institute. Here are the powers, the right to land, which contains the authority of the free right of disposal. The right of property by its nature has three powers, and it is the right to manage, use and extend, these are powers that make up the right of property and it is indivisible. To be property, she must have all three powers. Now we can't mortgage one authority without the other two powers being mortgaged. So the entire property institute has to be stocked. In a specific case, the entire immovable property institute must be a mortgage or mortgage facility, and not individual powers or individual rights. The right of construction or the right to prevent construction, it's rights, the institutes of real law and they exist as such, but they fall into that other kind of stock, and that's the stock in the superstructures. The mortgage was two thousand years back and there's a day-to-day stock exchange institute. That's our main remark. The sixth point introduces a new concept, so far unknown in our legal theory and practice, which is that buildings in construction, as well as specific parts of buildings in construction (accommodation, business rooms, garages, etc.) are built, on condition that they are granted a certain building approval, can also be mortgaged. So this is where the mortgage institute is introduced on future immovableity, the future mortgage facility is allowed. It can now be the subject of various abuses, the creation of fictitious contracts, the abuse of various species. I know that the proposer's motive was to enable investors to build easier, there was a lack of money in construction, and in this way it would be easier to get credit to banks and that banks would have some guarantee for the loans they give for housing or any other construction, but there are other means of security. It does not need a mortgage over future immovableity to be used as a guarantee that someone will finish the construction facility. The bank, if it's safe for that contractor to finish the job, can look for other types of security. These are securitys such as bank guarantees, securities of value, but it does not belong to this matter, it belongs to banking affairs, it falls under bonds of law, it does not belong to real-legal transactions and cannot be subject to mortgage and mortgage law. Banks that want to lend loans to housing or any other construction must find other funds and other mechanisms to secure their loans, and that is more security than this, ask for a mortgage on an undeveloped facility, on something that still doesn't exist and that should one day be immovable. We think there's a conceptual difference between the position of the promoter and what the SRS has put out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24214	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24215	If a law student wrote what was written in Article 3. The bill, he would have failed the exam. Eleven times you'd have failed your exam? Not 11, but he'd fall for the exam, so maybe he'd get a no-go for the future, that's what I'm telling you. It's for one simple reason, it's the supply facility. The facility of the mortgage of the immovableity and the end of the story. The fact that you at the Ministry don't know what a mortgage is, what a manual pledge, what a pledge of rights and a pledge of claim is, that's your problem. However, if you had consulted or found it appropriate to read that law in 1930, it is the law on land books, you could see that land books have the main book, so the collection, so the main book has land-book roles, and that's where the land-book body is entered, immovableity is curved, etc. Real rights and the application of these rights, and what you have stated from point 4 to point 6) in Article 3, these are not real rights, these are classical rights, and some are even administrative. And if you've read a little bit of what's close to the mortgage again, it's that the land-book body represents something that's whole. It can suffer some changes, which is an enrolment or a attribution, and the type of enrolment can be a book, a memo, a note. How are you going to make a book, a note, and a note of something you wrote in point 6? This is that the mortgage is entered into the building building. It's a future immovableity. Now let's have a little fun, Minister, you've now done something that we have in the Charter of Values Act, and they're called futures. It's the right to a future breed on a plot. That's right, but they're securities of value, but not mortgages. It's a record of value and it's being transmitted, and this is a mortgage, this is really real. It's all missed. Since I'm running out of time, I wouldn't want to waste it knowing what's behind this. The background of this and this broad bill of law is that this is possibly the second or third phase of one operation that has been unconstitutionally conducted in the National Assembly, directed by some stakeholders, who were even with that Law on Recording of Nationalised Assets, thanks to those yellow ones who have fled now, have also inserted that certificate of registration of seized property. Rest assured, if such a law passes, these certificates will put a mortgage on even formally and legally foreign immovable property, so that some heirs can provide loans to some banks, and knowingly not repaying the bank's loans to some property or property, in possession of some real estate. All this resistance at non-traditional institutes is based on the obvious benefit of some individuals who have their own lobby in the government and that, if they can't denationalize with soap, then the surrounding one is executed, and even that the future object that can't be seen is gender, and the mortgage becomes a charter of value. This is not a law that regulates mortgages. So everything has to be run over, everything has to be annulled in the legal system, and even traditional principles of Roman law. Just to achieve someone's interest that's being presented here as something European, something global, something modern, etc. Of course, we will not vote on such a bill, and therefore we especially insist on these seven-eight first amendments, where we are conflicting with the Government in the theoretical sense of words and we want to show on these few amendments the real intentions and the interesting lobby behind the government and that pushes this concept, and that we just confirm that our thesis that we have in principle said that Serbia is interesting, because immovableities are not significantly burdened with mortgages, as is the case with Western Europe, where every square centimetre is several times burdened. Take care of you who do most, because if you don't trust me, go to law school, one, the other, there are five, we have and private, ask if such a mortgage is possible as the government of Vojislav Kostunica pushes. She's pushing something off the basic principles of the rights that have existed for centuries. Just to remind you, what's being pushed by the government by this bill, that would be, to express myself, for those who have something to do with the building, or if they had some kind of construction profession, it would be like the building minister coming here and saying, you know what, first we have to start with a thunderbolt on the roof, so in the final phase, we're going to start digging the foundations. (President: Time.) This is exactly the kind of operation that we're trying to do with this debate, to get rid of this dust, and to make it clear to everyone, and to take part of the responsibility when he votes for a bill like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24216	The word has a minister, Mr. Parivodić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24217	I thank the gentleman for the amendment. Now I'm going to take out the way I see things. For one thing, the aim of this law is one thing, which is to enable each citizen of Serbia to easily buy an apartment in property. Also, in addition to this main one, the aim of this law is to encourage construction in Serbia. Those are the main objectives. So, the Serbian political scene is constantly talking about some lobbyes, importing, exporting and this and that lobby. Now I'm in this place where I've been for over a year and I haven't felt the pressure of a single lobby, at least on me, I don't know if it's anyone else, but I haven't felt the pressure of a single lobby, and no one's come from me in the ultimate sense that they're asking for anything, and it didn't occur to them. So I have no reason to defend the purpose of this law, because it is completely undeniable, as it is. Now let's do what I said last week first, so you didn't seem to understand me very well. So the mortgage is built on property rights, and it's not built on immovable property. I proved it with a short logical sylogism, when I said the right of property is sold, and the matter surrenders. That sentence indicates that when the right of property is sold, then the money is earned, the security claim is charged from that money. The right of property is subject to mortgage, and the pledge can be established on demand, can also be established on actions, on intellectual property rights. So, on a variety of rights, you can establish a pledge, and you can't do things. Using the word thing, it's a simplified, people's way of expressing it. In order for this way of expression, which is truly offended in our language, to be recognizable to the people, and since it is my motto to write the law for an ordinary man, and not for a specialist, that is why I listed in Article 3 a little inconsistency, and in fact it defines things. This is Article 3. point 1) "movable matter (right property on land, construction building)". In fact, property rights are what mortgages are on, but since people traditionally say mortgages on immovableity, that's why I said immovable stuff. Then at point 2) I said "part of the immovable matter, in accordance with the decision on the deobi". I know very well what can be a matter of civil law. It can only be that immovable thing where there's property rights. When a decision is made on a decoupling, in terms of the law on extraparious procedure, then the thing becomes civil, there is a separate right of property, in fact, parts of a divided matter, because there is a separate right of property in each of these parts, can be subject to mortgage. Now you have a comment on this - the principles of indivisibility of the mortgage. You didn't understand the principle of indivisibility. The principle of indivisibility is reflected in two aspects. One aspect is that mortgaged immovableity provides an entire claim, so if the claim is worth a million dinars, then that last dinar until it pays off, the entire immovableity will be burdened by a mortgage. It's the principle of indivisibility of the claim, that the whole mortgaged thing provides the whole claim. Another aspect of the principle of indivisibility in a mortgage is that if there is a division of things, then, in order to protect the trustee, in every part of the former thing, every new part of that thing where there is a separate property right, a mortgage will be established. So it's not going to wipe the mortgage. If one field is divided into five parts, then all five parts will be charged with this mortgage to protect the trustee. That's the principle of indivisibility. Your comment that part of the thing on which a new right of property is established is not justified by the solution to the deobi. Furthermore, the purpose of the provision of the whole of Article 3 is to establish, as widely as possible, rights related to things, firstly property rights, but also other rights that are directly related to things that are in traffic. That's the point. If the right of property or future right of construction is determined, if it is in traffic and it is in traffic, then there is no reason that no mortgage can be built on that right. That's the point. So wherever you have a right that's directly related to the country and if that's a right to traffic, if you can transfer it right from one owner to another, in which case, who can do more, can less, who can transfer the property, he can pawn it, because it's less than a sale. This is the concept of the whole of Article 3. On the line of this thinking, the co-owner's part, you know it well, according to the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, is transferable without the consent of other co-owners. I repeat, the joint part is in traffic without the consent of other co-owners. Anyone who can do more can do less. If the co-owner can sell his co-owner's share without the consent of the other owner, then he can pawn it. It's a finished story. Further, the building issue. There is no reason for you to defend the trustee from the fact that the facility will be built or not built. If the facility is built, there will be a mortgage, or if it remains semi-completed, the trustee will have a deposit on what was built, on the walls that were built. What exists, what's built, will have a supply on it. If the entire facility is built, he'll have a mortgage on the whole facility. The right of property on the walls. Exactly. That right of property can be mortgaged if the law does so. The point of this whole story is not to keep the condition as it is, but to be promoted. It's not just about helping investors. You know that investors sell apartments before the facility is finished, if you, Mr. Krasic, say, buy an apartment on the third floor, which is not quite finished yet, you can go to the bank and raise a loan as a citizen, if the bank has confidence that the investor who builds the building where you bought the apartment, that he will finish the facility. So the trustee -- the bank will look at credibility, the ability of investors. If it is an investor of reputation, he will say: why don't I give Mr Krasic a mortgage loan for a third-floor apartment, for reasons of confidence in the investor, because it's a serious firm that I know will end the facility. That will make it easier for you, Mr Krasic, and every citizen of Serbia to obtain a housing loan. That's what this law is all about. Also, Mr. Krasic, you know we have a huge number of buildings that aren't registered. We also know that these special parts are buildings (inhabitations, business premises, etc.) real traffic, that courts recognise that traffic and that it's a reality. If these things are in traffic, unregistered apartments or business rooms, there's no reason for us to block these things from being a mortgage object. Now I'm just going to explain the difference between the object and the object. There is an excellent article by Professor Obren Stankovic, which distinguishes the subject and object of law. Professor Stankovic defines a real right as a right that allows direct authority to things. In that sense, the mortgage is not really right, because it does not allow direct power to things. Then he says: this physical object is an object of property rights, and the subject of real rights, it's called an object of property rights. That's all I wanted to tell you. Now you understand a better meaning. So there are no big conspiracies, some writers, some secret invisible hands. I wrote this law and I stand firm behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24218	National MP Zoran Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24219	Mr. Parivodic, if you want to buy for you and Kostunica in the construction of a villa on Dedinj, he on the ground floor, you on the first floor, and on that land no land-booked body is formed, you want to take a mortgage loan, then you and your Kostunica will have no interest in the mortgage law, but you will have a completely different law. Let me tell you, you don't propose mortgage and mortgage laws here, but you're proposing mortgage laws. What you obviously can't figure out is one thing is immobility, and the other is the right to immobilize. The right to immovableity is related to a person, to a person, to a legal subjectivity, and the immovableity as a concept when used in mortgage law and when a mortgage is at all considered to be something that is restricted, curved in space, time and something that exists. So, your building facility doesn't exist, you're saying he's in construction. In point 5, you have also placed some rights at your disposal, so the right to prevent construction, etc. Last time I told you, in this Forester's Law on Planning and Construction, there is no longer that right to prevent construction, there is no more. In practice, it exists, and the law doesn't? Well done, then. So, drugs don't exist in the law, and they exist in practice. That's how it works out. There must be a difference, something is immobility, and Mr. Milajic has amended it to define it. How? In terms of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations. Agricultural, building, immovableity, building, economic building, apartment, living space, business space, even garage. A mortgage can be built on that. From the point of view of the mortgage, it absolutely doesn't matter who owns it, even a third party as a non-indebted owner can burden his real estate because he loves Peru Peric who took the loan. There's nothing on which you're based your concept, on some right to immobilize. It's irrelevant for a mortgage, for a notion of mortgage, it's irrelevant. It's about the same thing, it's January, the sun is shining, but it's not summer. You're telling us, since the sun is shining in January, it's probably summer. It's not the Minister's summer, it's winter, it's the sun, but the temperature says it's winter. Don't turn things around. Secondly, how are you going to put your mortgage on something that doesn't exist? I've been trying to explain a little funny. These are future rights, future claims, future insights of its scope. I'm at risk of buying some right to knock down a flight of two acres of some kind of surface. And the one who sells the paper of value, Mr. Minister, I've participated five times in the adoption of a law on securities of value. Don't teach me. People on stock markets and banks are gonna laugh and talk like that. The apartment in construction that does not exist is not an object, you even said paper at point 5) with some right. There's no real estate based on that piece of paper that you can write the right mortgage on. What's wrong is what's a mortgage, a claim to real estate, a mistake is what's a hand-deposit, a mistake is what's a pledge on rights, what's a pledge on claims. I agree with you that, and when it comes to this housing building for the future, there are two ways to get rid of it. By way of regulations on the mortgage bank and mortgage loans and by means of an amendment to the Law on Liabilities, the relevant provisions interpreting the right to rights and claims. The fourth version to which you can solve this is an appropriate development of the existing provisions of the Charter of Values Act. It was one idea to overcome mortgage hostages as transferable securities of value, but it's a completely different story than this one that's being discussed today. You do all this other stuff that's in some other regulations, which needs to be regulated, you put into mortgage law. Let me make it simple for you. Go to any municipal court and officer working on a solution, there's a lawyer who wonders when they hear what you're saying, tell him - please, I'd like to write a mortgage on the future right to build an apartment. He's gonna kick you out of the office and say, "I'm sorry, please, I'm a normal man, I have nowhere to write, how to write." Where's the land-book body? It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist in some new virtual organization for business registers, or who knows what you're going to invent. You're gonna make a mess on the market. You're destroying the legal system, and that's why we object that you're destroying the legal system. Work out the mortgage law, where it is entered, etc. You have our support. You've inserted the matter, and you've done it wrong, that's the place in the bonding law. That's what our disagreement is about. Immobility is something that's defined in space, constantly. I can tell. It's defined. And the right to move is bound to him who exercises power over the property. It's someone with legal subjectivity. These two things aren't the same, and you're trying to convince us here, it's real estate, but a man has the right to immobilize, so then we're essentially writing something down on his rights. For the mortgage, it's irrelevant, it's important for the mortgage, you have what it contains, the list, the ownership list, the cargo bill. What you're proposing by this law can't be entered into those sheets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24220	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24221	I have to repeat again what I've been saying for the third time. The subject matter of the mortgage is the real rights to real estates which contain the right to dispose. The mortgage is built on real rights to immovable property that contain the right to dispose. Any such right can by definition be the subject of a mortgage. Another thing that we can think conservatively and limit citizens to the possibility of subject matter, but there is no obstacle to having this attitude that is economically correct and legally logical. You claim it is impossible to enter a mortgage in a land book, or in a cadastre if it is a building in construction. I'm saying it's possible. I'm not saying it. What you see before you, I have been working together with the land-booked Belgrade court and along with the Republic Geodetic Institute, which runs the cadastre. If these people see an opportunity to settle it that way, I don't see what your problem would be with making it impossible for people to expand their assets to build a mortgage. Now, technically, I'm going to tell you how it's done. By entering a piece of land, if no object is registered, on that land-book sheet, where a piece of land is entered, and there is no object yet, it is credited with a mortgage on the building in the cargo list. Then, when a valid licence is obtained, the land register, i.e. court or cadastre, must be renamed to the mortgage when it registers the facility. Also, if it is a building facility and unlisted, then on the land on which the building is located, a mortgage on an unrecorded facility will also be entered and each third person will be able to know that there is a burden on immovableity. That's the whole point. The whole point is that there is legal certainty on one side, and on the other hand there are as many facilities on which to establish a mortgage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24222	Thank you, replica, Mr. Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24223	There are three situations here. In order to set the whole thing up and facilitate this debate, not to be a purely academic debate, but to make it easier to understand what the problem is, therefore, there are three situations. The first situation is the cleanest, and that is, if the facility or immovableity are recorded in land books, there is a record, the right of mortgage is established on it; the right of mortgages is built on the land-book body, which is very important, because the land-booked body can be made up of several building plots and buildings on them. They are located in a land-book cartridge and the condition is that it is in the same catastrian municipality. It's been set up since Austria; it means the German-Austrian system that exists today. It's an indisputable situation. This law is not about the situation, it's trying to solve two problems. Other problems are unrecorded objects. So, there are construction plots, orchards or fields in land books, and 30 or 40 years ago, residential buildings, business buildings and other immovableities were built and there is a discrepancy between the fact and the legal situation. That discrepancy is huge. In the last few decades, he's grown so much that no one can control it. What appears to be a practical problem? The minister spoke about legal security, which is where the problem of legal certainty or uncertainty arises in the fact that unregistered facilities will be subject to mortgages without having a property record. Property, as a real right, is the basis for a mortgage. Now there's a practical problem, you're building a mortgage on immovable property, a property property that's not registered anywhere, there's nothing in public books at all, now someone's giving their money, gaining the right to mortgages, and he's not sure about the legal status of that facility. I'd like to remind you briefly, when you acquire property rights over moving things you're looking for a simple title, a legal basis, that's a contract, whether written, orally, in the case of moving things it's much easier. In the case of immovable matters, because of their importance, the justus title is different, a strict form is sought, over the court, not by any other body, but by the court, the elements of the contract, which must all be fulfilled absolutely, just to highlight the importance of the property institute. As a modus-andi, the way you teach things in land books is intended to register, so the entry into the land books of modus-endi for fixed things, and for moving things is simple surrender - from hand to hand. In off-book property, you don't have a modus-endi, you don't have a way of gaining, you don't have a record of anything. So if you already wanted this law, you had to pass another law, bring in public books, intubulations, any other law, where you'd make the enrolment. If the land books haven't already done it and it hasn't been carried out through the land books, it means the registration of property. So for the sake of legal certainty, you have to register off-book property so that whoever gives money and puts a mortgage on a property facility has legal certainty. In practice, the situation that a man, as proof of ownership of his apartment, will bring a purchase contract from before, for example, five years ago, and he, meanwhile, sold the apartment. He'll prove by that contract that he owns the apartment. How are you going to do that? (Milan Parivodić, from the place: It is the only way. That's the only way, so you're gonna have to take control again. Again, I'm telling you, there will be a possibility of machination, a great abuse. I think the move before this law should have been - the adoption of a law on records of off-book ownership... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... It's because there's a huge difference between what's real and what's legal. The third group of problems, it's putting mortgages on the rights, which we don't think belongs to this matter. If we wanted to protect the banks, then if we wanted to protect investors who invested money in housing, so we could give them security, go ahead, pass a law on loan security. Bring a special law that will, in some ways, protect the banks that invest in residential construction. Don't push security and loan security matter into mortgage matter. I think it was necessary to pass a special law to protect trustees from lending. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24224	The word has Minister Parivodić, then MP Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24225	I'd say I've given this a lot of thought. You have now touched the core of the problem and the core of the controversy in which we are. It's the core of this solution's controversy. Your intentions are quite clear to you that we want to achieve and I assume you support them. The essential question, sir, is in the following: we have, as you say, a huge discrepancy between the actual state and the book. We couldn't stop life, and those real estates are being sold. You point out an argument that is very strong. You're saying -- the former owner of one immovable property can pawn a property that now belongs to a third owner, whom he didn't just sell, but reselled the apartment for the third time. The bottom line is this: we're having real estate traffic going on. As a solution to this you are offering to pre-introduce the register of unregistered objects. That previous question, you know it very well, can take 10 years. Secondly, the previous issue raises one fundamental issue, which is the legalisation of illegally built buildings. Are we going to legalize objects or not? If we legalize them, we send a message to the future -- build whoever they want, no problem, some government will come again, and they will legalize the facility. We're putting one element of fundamental-legal uncertainty into the system. I tried to bridge this contradictory situation by starting with the following reasoning: immovableities are sold without books; unlisted immovableities are sold. If that's the case, then there's this argument that you've made standing, which is that the third previous owner can sell that immovableity, because at one point he was the owner. However, this traffic works despite the fact that there's this possibility that you said, because people go and look at the real estate itself. That's how they determine some kind of publicity, the modusins. If we already have such a condition to carry out the right of movement, and by definition the transfer of property is more intervention than a pawn, then I have reasoned - if that is the case and if this circumstance does not lead to these situations that some previous owner is selling immovableity, or does not cause problems, then we can also allow this. It's not a matter of no offense, but I think we should meet the needs of life. I hope you understand me well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24226	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24227	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I think it's very good that we have one of these discussions and that we are really facing expert arguments about one very important issue, which is actually leading to making it easier for citizens to acquire property in an apartment, building or other immovable property that they need. I think that all of us here share an opinion, regardless of whether we're trying to pass the law or to correct the amendments, that it's necessary to do something to use what exists in nature in order to build on it the right of mortgages, so that someone can raise a loan on that basis. I think it's indisputable between us. It's a slow way that it's regulated here by law, which I'm allowing to be possible and necessary to discuss this issue here. I think that in the debate on this issue, we are losing sight of the cadastar records of the immovableity, which was adopted by the Law on the Cataster of immovableity and the enrolment of the right to immobility. It is a law that provides for the introduction of a single record, putting aside the power of the land book, which has played a very large role in the long term, and the introduction of a unique record that should cover all objects. And those objects that aren't registered and those objects that have started. I can tell you from the practice in Novi Sad as a lawyer that the immovableity cadastre works very well as a unique immovableity record, that in the setting up of the immovableity cadastres, there is a renewal of the records. They are called owners or potential owners to bring in certain documents, to register all objects, and start, and without permission, and with permission, to enter the facility. It shall be entered into the operation, entered into the plan and entered into the facility as incomplete or without a building permit, or without the use of permission, and such a notice shall appear in the list of immovableities. It's a record we couldn't say was new, it's been there for 13 years. It was supposed to replace the total immobilities record and combine two records across Serbia's territory. So, land-books, both deed and cadastrian, as well as possession records. It's a record that we can't really call a new one anymore and cover the enrollment of these starting objects, and objects without permission and objects that don't have all the elements to be entered. I share with my colleagues who have these amendments a kind of caution whether in this way it will be possible to open some kind of abuse to advocate something that is not listed, which is not established as a land-booked body, as my colleague Krasic would say, but I see here one way to allow people with such facilities to gain the right to credit more easily. If someone pawns two or more times or alienates an object, there are more instruments to control, channel and prevent, including criminal protection when it comes to fraud. I think if you took into account such a law, and that law has been in place for 13 years, and it's this law that the minister here speaks of, the Law on the Cataster and the Law on Real Estates, the list of immovableities as a replacement of land-book copies or a land-book pad contains everything that is on some land. It also contains that the facility is started, that the facility does not have a building permit and everything that we're talking about here. So it could be a guarantee of what is suspected here and of certain possibilities. In terms of the mortgage itself, I think that if we went to the traditional understanding of the mortgage, that it could only be under the Law on Land Books, pre-war, which only applies here as a rule of law, and not as a law, then we would really come into a situation to stone legal traffic, I am still afraid open, above all, to the needs of life, but also the legislator respected such needs. I'm just going to mention the Immobility Transport Act, which long provides for the obligation to always make real estate contracts in writing and that party signatures are certified. However, I must tell you that this law has been amended several times, and these previous laws, the laws in force, contain a provision that allows the court to convalitate such a contract unless it is injures the public interest. I think we have the conditions here to pass a law like this and this law does not bring less legal certainty. I think he's actually trying to fix some things in a fundamental way, and legal certainty isn't just being built up by this law, it's still being built by the work of all the authorities, and the police, and the court, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24228	National MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24229	Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, this debate on this amendment may define, in terms of the promoters and the part of the Assembly that will support this law, what is the essence of one part. I would just briefly look at the commentary on part of the debate and part of the law that caused this debate through the amendment to the possibility of using the mortgage on the building facility. In this bill of law, this is one of the latest solutions that exist and that's one of the reasons. The possibility of giving a mortgage or taking a mortgage on a building facility, that's why most of it and G17 plus will vote precisely for this bill. It was said in this debate, which is really very constructive in contrast to some other discussions, i.e. it was commented in a negative context on the possibility of taking a mortgage just like this, given to banks, because it was said that banks could also benefit from the possibility to rely in their banking business relationship, i.e. to request a mortgage in another way, i.e. insurance in some other way for loans they give, and the very essence of this bill is the possibility of taking credit for residential construction. It's not just that, but it's one of the points of the law. Of course they can take advantage of another possibility to secure the loan, and that's what banks do today, but that's exactly the problem. This possibility that only now exists of these solutions before this law is that banks are now looking for insurance that unfortunately the largest number of citizens, who are interested in apartments that have no apartments, does not exist. The majority of citizens are looking for these loans and are unable to provide any other insurance that banks have so far in what they have as legal solutions can take advantage of. That's the problem, and you all know it well. Of course, all of you, like me, are ordinary people, who face the problems of ordinary people and who may have some problems of their own and know the problem. The problem has been in place for years since the possibility of long-term loans, loans of a larger amount, for which banks require adequate insurance. Until this law, citizens who needed new apartments had nothing to give as insurance. That's the point. The largest number of citizens who have something they can offer as insurance already have a settled housing issue. Then there's a way. If he already has a house, then he's gonna sell that house, so he's gonna buy a new apartment for cash. If there are good business partners who can provide certain coverage, they do the same, but it's a small number of people. They already have the possibility of some kind of financial security, financial security or other security. It's about that, and everybody here knows that a large number of people who need apartments don't have the option of that guy, and that's why they're looking for an apartment to solve their own existential issue. So this bill allows banks to legally, it's about some other creditors, but banks that can take advantage of another option, which is taking a mortgage on a building facility. Just one more thing, I don't think it matters at all, to make it clear to the public first. We all know that well. This bill is not binding, it's very important that we know. This member is not binding, he does not oblige the bank as a possible creditor to take a mortgage relating to the building facility. We are merely giving legal opportunity, which so far did not exist, that banks as the biggest creditors would be taken and secured through this bill to take the right, or mortgage on the building facility. We haven't had it so far, and this will open up the possibility for banks to be safer, to make more citizens take advantage of that legal possibility, therefore, of the possibility, not the obligation, and thus to provide, to increase housing building, but above all, the possibility of citizens being the ones who will get the apartments. Of course, what is very important for our business relations, some bonding rights are not regulated by the right to trust, but the right to trust will be one of the most important things, i.e. the trust that banks will have in investors, which they will cooperate with, that is, the banks themselves will determine from whom they will take the opportunity to take over a building that is built or not. So you don't have to bank at all from any investor or someone who's building an apartment to take the apartment that's being built. The bank, as the minister said earlier here, will choose who they will trust and that is the matter of some other relationships that are not regulated by law, but it is a matter of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24230	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here, I'm getting a notice that the government has not accepted the amendment. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24231	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, but I have no information, so we do what you say, the minister nods whether or not she accepts the government. You didn't? Okay. That is exactly what I would like here, before I move on to the essence of the proposed amendment, to advertise the Rules of Procedure, that is, its Article 147, where it is well said that the Government is and that committees are obliged to consider, before the National Assembly meetings, amendments submitted to the bill and to inform the National Assembly of which amendments are proposed by the National Assembly to accept them and for which they are rejected. So, I realize that one of the possible solutions is that the minister comes here and personally by noding his head suggests what's going on, but we are putting up with amendments because of citizens whose interest it is to bring as high-quality laws as possible and I think it's much more meaningful to get a written response from the government, as is usually the case, because I think the government has had enough time. The amendments were submitted on December 8th, and today is December 21st, so it's quite enough time for us to, according to one normal procedure, as the Rules of Procedure requires, we get answers here, so that we might still withdraw some amendments, if the government's response pleases us, so that we don't waste time and we don't pollute here in the way we've had the opportunity to look here for almost an hour and a half. It is my observation, and I believe that the President of the Assembly should eliminate one of these practices, because it is simply not meaningful, we are wasting our time, and we are all easier to function in a different way. As for the amendment to Article 3 that I have submitted, it is essentially a termological nature. I suggest that you be in Article 3. Proposal for a law in item 1, point 5) of the words "or available" shall be replaced by the words "or traffic". In order to make it clear to those who are watching us, and even to the messengers who have not paid attention, I will read point 5. Article 3. says - the subject of a mortgage, in the following text, a subject or immovableity, can be, in point 5, a right on land containing the power of free legal availability, and in particular the right to build, the right to prevent construction, or the availability of state or social property. So I suggest that we replace "or available" here with the words "or traffic", because I think it would be more correct for the right to land, which contains the power of free legal availability, in point 5 of the said article, to specify in addition to that right of construction, to prevent construction, to include the right to traffic, as prescribed in Articles 79 and 84. The law on planning and construction. I now quote the position of the first and fourth members of the 84th Law that I have stated. He says -- on unbuilt construction land in state property, the right to use has an earlier owner, a legal heir, as well as a person to whom an earlier owner has transferred the right to use in accordance with the law. The right to use from Article 1 of this Article is in traffic. Since most of the land is, for example, in Zemun, the entire Bezanian hair is nationalized, i.e. it is state-owned, the former owner has the right to use it and this right of use is, according to Article 84. The law on planning and construction, in traffic. So in the amendment, I suggested using the word that stands in that law, that termologically we have the same situation in two laws that define these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24232	The word comes from MP Zoran Krasic, then from Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24233	Here's how the debate on these amendments is going, you can see for yourself that it proves the senselessness of such a proposal for Article 3 of this law. This amendment covers point 5) and it is fully legally undefined or to be more precise, incorrectly defined. You see, it says here that the supply facility is right on the land. False, completely incorrect. So, where the law is being recorded, I'll explain everything very nicely to you on that case used by these MPs from G17 plus. They're due to the credit insurance corporation, because of the actions they're running, they're sharing loans, they're not even sharing credits, they're providing bank claims, they're providing their own corporation, and there's now room for them to make some more cash, some plus there's no problem. You're in power, you're looking to do it now, it fits your concept, because where the money is, there's you and it's all right, it's all familiar. Let me get you back to the Ministers on that amendment to Article 2. You've explained it nicely, there's no good definition, there's no words - debt. Here's an example for you, you've just convinced us that for point 6 you'll need a building facility for you to issue a judicial approval for construction. So a man only has a building permit. Based on that building approval, by your concept, he can go out there somewhere, and there's something they're going to type on. What is the value of this right of construction, tell me, since there are some principles that apply to the mortgage, where it serves to ensure the principal right, the main claim, the principle of speciality exists, we will later, the principle of indivisibility, etc. What they're going to write and where they're going to write. They can type in, if it's an individual housing building, if it's a city building plot, if it's a 99-year lease, or if it's a right to use that land. On that right, you will enter a future right, or right that will be realized in the future, and a house will appear. And what if he took a loan under these conditions and you faked a mortgage on rights as collateral, that is, what you represent and don't stab a stone, the deadline, the bank's claim is due, what is it going to charge for? (Minister Parivodić, from the post: Hirographic Trustee. It's her responsibility. Then it's a negative mortgage, that's where I've been waiting for you. The mortgage gives the mortgage trustee the right to settle his claims from the value of a mortgage-loaded immovable property. What's he gonna do with that? Business risk? It's not the subject of this law, Minister. Then it's the bond law. The answer is correct, but it's the wrong subject. You're wrong about the subject, you're wrong about the law. Look where the wrong law is. Now, can you explain to me how much it costs to build? Tell me, I'm not counting this under your arm. (Milan Parivodić, from place: 25 to 30 percent of what you can build according to the urban plan in that part. But he won't build it. How are you going to charge that 25 percent? You enter as a mortgage the right to build, which under certain conditions may also be a transferable right. In our terms, since that administrative thing, it's more of a personal right. Janko Jankovic was won and approved by him on that and the plot to build as an investor, etc., he stabs two aces and fakes to present that the construction of Djoka Djokić based on the funds invested, etc., you know, is massively used. You just tell them, go ahead. Take it easy. Now tell me, how much is this building permit, how much is Peru Peric going to cost a building permit, which is going to be worth. Do you think she's worth the credit he took? It's not worth it. How are you going to sell the right to build, explain to me, since you treat the right to build as an immovable property. Now, under this law, you sell the right to build as a real estate. Who's going to buy the right construction as a real estate on the market. Djoka Djokic can appear and he says, the municipality says, please, you can't take over the building, you have to report to the competition, it's been a year, he didn't stab anything and the building permit expired. You're a real builder, a building permit, treated as a real estate, a piece of paper that means nothing. Let's move on, the real block of construction. Here, Ljila could read from this Law on Planning and Construction, this right no longer exists, there can only be something contractual about immovableities that are co-opted, where co-owners regulate some relationships, but it's not the subject of this law and I don't want to talk about it. He says further, power of free legal availability. What's that? (Milan Parivodić, from the place: It is an element of property rights, it is separated from physical availability, and these are two aspects of the powers of availability in the right of property. Mr. Minister, I know, the right to have is the authority of the owner to alienate and that's the basic right, to have, to alienate. Other rights which are, which is the use and management, from those three rights can be derived a whole series of rights etc. Mr. Minister, the land books have books, notes and notes. For the purpose of the premise, it is characteristic that an entry is made in the form of a premise of future rights to immovable property. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: There is something else missing. ) Now we return to what Mr. Krstin said, there is a premise of building a building on some immovable property according to the building permit. That construction began, as the cargo logs were made. Is that right? A premise has been made in the land books. You're the subject of a premise here to define as a mortgage, as a fixed property, and there's nothing to be charged from. The basic point of the mortgage is that when the debtor comes in late, that the trustee would make his claim, having secured it with a mortgage, to make his claim real, he acquires the right to obtain from the value of the immovable property that is burdened with the mortgage being sold, the first to settle his claim. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: The right is sold, that is the essence and you do not understand. ) I may not understand, but I am telling you that 90% of Serbia does not understand you. Absolutely all of them are primitively simple, here in court no one will understand you. The fact that you've contacted someone, it's yours, I'm not getting into it. I just want to make a clear distinction as to what a pledge on rights and claims is. If there are elements, and I'm telling you that you had an idea here, then you're moving it to the Bond Relations Act. In the mortgage law, leave a burden on your immovableity. Nothing else. You're making a mess of us here. Then you could've done better by taking a law on a hand-deposit and mortgage law and saying, "Publish the law, then regulate everything, and a stock of rights, and claims, and movable and immovable things," etc. Please, what you're proposing is impossible in practice. You can formally-legally make some records, you can, you know, make records to put everything in there and everything. That's not what I'm arguing about. I'll tell you in advance what kind of problems legal traffic in the country will be. I also pointed to problems with these laws on the housing insurance company. They said last year, what you're saying, by September it's going to be a construction site, it's going to be nothing cranes, it's going to be. Did it happen? It didn't happen. You've been talking, since September of the month the tiger, the Serbian tiger, the charlain, will develop, investments etc. What's the matter? It's a carpalian. It's a carpalian. What were the investments? They're gone. I agree, not a slow feeling, people can see what doesn't exist. I agree. There's no such thing as what you said. Now let me go back to this amendment. Transport of rights and availability of immovable property, formally and legally, is one and the same. It is formally the same, but it is a good thing that this amendment draws attention and indicates that the mortgage here is not treated as a burden of immovableity, but rather as a burden of some rights, future rights and non-existent rights. If you're doing this, then you've had to in the transitional and final provisions to reach with one provision and put out four or five members of the Bond Relations Act that regulate the supply of rights and claims. I agree that this matter is regulated by some other laws, where it is said, when it comes to securities of value, on the portfolio of securities of value etc. It would be good for you to withdraw this bill. We're not going to benefit from this law, we're just going to have a lot of damage. This law is contrary to the basic basic principles applicable to mortgages. Not with us, but in any country that relies on this continental right. I don't argue with you, I don't dispute at all what the G17 plus initiative is, and that through credit, housing is allowed, and that the one who builds, that some means of security is paid. You can't do that here. Why? The one who should be legitimateized by giving a mortgage on his right has no place to sign up, that's not right. This idea of yours is realised by appropriate agreements and instruments on the relationship of investor-bank creditor contractor, and only then your young man up to 45, who is interested in entering a system of loans and getting an apartment. That doesn't touch the mortgage law. It is touched in that part where on some immovable property, a plot where the construction is to take place, a mortgage is placed, but on the immovable property that exists, and a different demand system towards the bank and the investor is provided both by the bank and by the state for that part of the claim that goes through residential loans. It's a completely different subject than the mortgage. I'm not touching this subject at all. I'm just saying, it can be regulated by other regulations and should be regulated by other regulations. If you think you're regulating it by this law, you're doing two bad things. Nor will you enforce this law to provide for that claim, and much greater damage will be done here. At first I said, four, five systems exist to solve what your idea is, and the Law on Mortgage Banks, the Law on Mortgage Loan Regulations, amendments to the Law on Securities of Values. That's three times, and the amendment to the Law on Bond Relations, the fourth time, where you can intervene in that matter that's a matter of interest to you. You've taken the mortgage, the last thing that needs to be changed in this country. We can't have a lack of records, a poor state of land books, the fact that for 20 years, there have been some wrong attempts to do something, to make a central record, to solve it by changing the subject of the law, which is another way of interpreting what a hostage object is, which is now some gymnastics, which is an older chicken or egg, so we're even trying to change the legal theory. It's the wrong way. With this perseverance that you're defending this bill, which is wrong, you're just sending a bad message to people, because you've announced this as something epochal. When this debate is heard to the end, be assured that no one will even think to do these things, because they will be deeply aware of the problems they face. We've always told you all the problems and you've always challenged us, so after two or three months, you come and say that we were right, that you were really wrong. We're just warning you in advance, the mortgage law we need, it needs to be settled in one classic way, acceptable, and change these other regulations. And we are interested in changing these regulations, to sort it out, but in one real way, to take a relatively long time, to make it a relatively long-standing regulation, not a regulation that changes how the government comes. It's our idea and initiative, and that's why we submitted these amendments. We don't want anything to be destroyed, and we're aware that nothing will be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24234	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24235	I have to explain the same thing to Mr. Krasic for the fifth time, so I'm starting to ask myself if he doesn't understand or really understand, because it's a lot of simple concepts, and it's a great lawyer, so I'm just surprised that I have to do the same thing four or five times. We'll start over. So, real rights are the rights that within themselves, Mr. Krasic, contain legal powers that allow for direct influence on the matter, as a material part of nature on which there is property rights. Real rights to real estate are those rights that allow direct physical impact on immovableity. The right to have, as an element of property rights, has two visions or aspects. One is physically available, and the other is legally available. I used the term "legal availability" just so there wouldn't be any confusion between these two aspects of the rights of availability that constitute an element of property rights. Real rights to immovableities, as I have defined them, as rights that contain the powers of direct influence on the matter, if these things are in traffic, i.e. The titler - the holder of these rights has the right to have these real rights, it can be the subject of a mortgage. Do you understand now, Mr. Krassic, or does it take the sixth time to explain such a normal, logical thing? If the Romans had adhered to the legal principles themselves, they would still have been on the 12 tables, in the 400th year after Christ. So it's right to evolve, and it needs to meet people's needs, not to bring people into something that was invented 200 years ago and that was appropriate 200 years ago. You know, Marks may have had a proper analysis of the political economy of that time in 1840, but it's been 170 years since then, opportunities have changed, Marks has been overcome. Thus certain legal principles are overcome, and life - standing arguments explain why a rule of law has been overcome. Mr. Krasic, I claim that the principle of officiality is beyond principle. This isn't precedent right now, that I'm making up something, but in the Law on Bond Relations, you have a derogation from the principle of formality at hand supply, where in the case of a contract in the economy, a businessman can sell a thing out of his free hand only if he calls the trustee a week earlier and announces the auction of that thing to him. So that's where it's already strayed from the principle of officiality. You don't need to be fixed, you need a man to know what reality is and try to support that reality if it's productive, not stop it. In order to make things perfectly clear to you, the pledge on bond rights, and the bonds rights are claims consisting of gifts of facerei non facere or "pati", as the fourth element of the bond, the pledge of these rights is governed by the Law on Liabilities. You have to distinguish real rights, as rights that allow direct influence on things, from bonds rights, where you ask a man for certain behavior, active, passive, that manifest through gifts facerei non facere. I hope that's clear now. As for the amendment on whether or not it's on the market, let me answer. We've been trying here to use civil law terminology and the right to have a better fit than being in traffic, so I'd say no to that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24236	The word is made by MP Zoran Krasic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24237	Mr. Mikhailovich, I'm really embarrassed, but I have to go out and explain the 17th time. The example I told you, when you and your Kostunica start building on Dedinj, you get some land, Dinkic gives you a loan and you get a building permit from the Old Town municipality, and you and your Vojislav Kostunica, and you fall out of power, and then you give that money you took on a loan from, say, Raiffeisen Bank, to defend yourself in a court procedure so you don't go to jail and do anything, no one will be able to collect anything from your claim on the basis of the mortgage. I guess you get that. You are, from the point of view of the mortgage, as mortgage debtors, legal and business irresponsible persons. Why? Because whoever gave you the loan had nowhere else to sign his mortgage, there's nothing to write a mortgage on, because you got land with the right to use, no one knows how much it costs to use it. You know for a fact that the principal mortgage law is expressed in money. You probably know that it can be future, it can be conditional. I'd rather use the term "very certain and specific" in terms of monetary value. Further to remind you of some of the principles you're talking about here. There's a principle of specialty. He can literally, when it comes to mortgages, define himself by five words. It's like this: "The pawn's right embraces individual, individually certain things." One or more individual, individually specific things. Is it a real building thing for you? It's not a thing, it's a real thing. Since it's right, then it goes into the Bond Relations Act, and it can't go into mortgage law, because it only treats real estate. The registration of certain powers of the mortgage trustee to settle his claim from a single asset called the mortgage, to be more precise from the value of the immovable property to be sold, and if something remains, he returns to the mortgage debtor, i.e. the owner of the immovable property, since the third person may also be the owner of the immovable property. You've informed me here for the 17th time that immovableity means the right to real estate. That means a man has the right to use and to make himself available. I don't care about that at all. The mortgage law is an interest in definition and definition, in the indication that this is a trustee's right to be admitted to immovable property. You said nice to get caught, to see it, to hold on, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move it, to move We helped you explain, so we said agricultural land, city building land, buildings, halls, garages, apartments, business space etc. It is recorded, and it has no meaning at all from the point of view of the mortgage in which it is owned. There's no question of your own here at all. Since no property question is asked, then there is no question of the right that has a nn face toward a certain immovableity, and you keep telling us about the rights to some immovableity. In Article 3(3), point 1 is replaced by the following: 5) and 6) there is no even immovableity. You're the seventh time I've seen you come out here, play something for me, get upset. Please go to the library and read where the mortgage is entered, which means the mortgage. I do not dispute the right to rights and claims, but it is not the place in this law, but I am telling you in the Law on Liabilities or in the regulations governing the business of mortgage banks and mortgage loans. You're pushing me here again and we've been spinning here for two hours about something, and we're just spinning because we won't let you ruin one thing, and we're not stopping you, changing the bonding law, bringing new regulations that regulate the supply of rights and claims, but we're not letting you touch this because you're nixing the basic principles.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24238	The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24239	I honestly tried, but it seems Mr. Krasic didn't understand, so I'm inviting him to lunch so I can explain to him what I'm talking about during that lunch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24240	The word is from Ambassador Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24241	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, again, I think there's a kind of misunderstanding about gaining property rights on immovable property. The law on the basis of property legal relations provides for the form of acquisition of property rights in the land book, registration in the land book, but when immovableities are obtained by legal work. That's exactly how it defines the law. So the right of property to property acquired by legal work is obtained by enrolment, not just by closing the contract. However, I think the key thing here is that the right to real estate doesn't have to be acquired just by enrolling, it is achieved and built. We're talking practically in most cases about property rights to real estate acquired by construction, and it really isn't necessary for this right of property to exist. It is obtained by the act of construction in different ways. Construction can be, now I don't remind some who do it more than their own, from other people's material, from their work, from other people's work, from their own land and from other people's land. The Law on Fundamental Property-Legal Relations also provides for such an opportunity to acquire property rights. Therefore, it is not necessary to acquire the right of property by building that the object is actually entered in the land book.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24242	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24243	I don't know what the minister's coming out of, I thought I'd ask him what he's done, which school. I, I don't know why, until today I thought he was a lawyer. Do you know what the minister has finished? Doctor of law? I'll have to explain some basic legal concepts to the doctor then. First of all, I don't know how a law doctor can talk about a piece of land. There's a plot. The plot has its number, has its surface, is entered into the land-book cartridge. The plot belongs to a certain Catastrian municipality, and it is a personal map of the plot, and the minister cannot say a piece of land and be built on a piece of land. Tell the minister to build on a building plot, which has all these characteristics I was talking about. Furthermore, the minister says he is proud to have written this law, says the law writes for an ordinary man, not specialists. This is amazing. The law is written to regulate a certain area of life, to be clear, precise, concise, laws are applied by experts, lawyers, specialists for which the minister does not write laws, and laws are written in the language of lawyers, legal language. That's why there are lawyers to explain to ordinary citizens what the provision means and interpret the law. Minister, I asked what you'd finished. So far, I've been convinced that you're a graduate lawyer. It's amazing, now I've explained some things to you and I'll continue to, of course, since you haven't heard from the beginning, I've explained to you what a piece of land means. (Milan Parivodić, from the post: I accept your amendment. Then I won't talk about the amendment, but I have to do what I'm about to tell you, just so I don't waste my time. It is logical that you accept this amendment and I will not explain the amendment, but rather a little bit to discuss what you have tried to explain, something that is inexplicable, but I will say in principle that it is unacceptable and unacceptable for you to communicate here in this way with the MPs. It's not a round table, let's organize a round table so let's gather together, experts who think this isn't a good law and experts of your type, who think this is a good law, and I'd say those who have the same interests as you do in passing this law, and you know well, Zoran Krasic told you in the first appearance here, what is the essence of passing this law, and you can't tell the MP -- now I'm going to explain to you, you don't understand me, you don't understand. We're not your students, you're not our professor. We here speak primarily as MPs, and as you can see the MPs of the SRS speak as experts who know the area well. You have the right to represent the concept of government. We're talking about a second, completely normal and legally cleaner concept, and that's how we can talk. That's why she's right, colleague Nestorovic, when she said that it was necessary for the government to give us, as is common in accordance with our rules of procedure, an opinion on every amendment and that for that amendment that does not accept, the government wrote that it does not accept and that our discussions are focused on the government's response, not on us talking about one amendment for two hours. Of course, we don't mind it, we can accept it, but it's simply not a way of communicating with ministers and MPs. Next, let me explain some basic things to you. When you spoke of a large number of unregistered apartments, or buildings, immovableity. That's what I was telling you when we talked about this law in principle. The problem is, that problem exists, but this law of yours doesn't solve that problem. You and your colleague Stojkovic must agree to update the work of the municipal courts' land-booking departments. This law absolutely will not improve anything when it comes to the bookkeeping of apartments, i.e. the bookmaking of buildings. It's not true what counterpart Krstin said there were some leaves of motion. I know about the possessions, that's what they're called, that's what the catastres run. It's leaves that can, as you said, replace the ownership list. That's not true. It can't, because the possession and ownership papers are completely different things. It's exactly what you colleagues have said that catastres of immovableity do their job quite well in terms of -- they've been aired, they're being recorded on copies of the plan, they're being entered into cadastrian operatives, but that doesn't mean they're changing the status of the possession list. You have as much as you want, here, take one piece of paper and you'll see that it says there - the owner, the board of the people, I don't know what it used to be called, and it's about your house that's without a building permit and it's really drawn. But that doesn't give her legal legitimacy. It's just the fact that she exists. But it has to be entered in the land book to actually exist legally. So it's just a formal existence. I need to explain to the minister what a land-book cartridge looks like. I got the impression you'd never seen it. So, the land-book cartridge has a list, a ownership list and a freight sheet. (Milan Parivodić, from the place: You are making a mistake, for which you burden me) Minister, don't speak to me like that, you can't do that. We can go outside, have coffee together and talk. I'm a MP here, you minister, and respect that. So, I got the impression that you've never seen a land-book cartridge. Now I'm explaining to you what it looks like. The list contains a description of the immovableity. It says here: the plot, the number and the number, has a grant number that corresponds to a certain cadastrian number. If it's built, then it says, "Built house of the surface and those." The owner's list says that the property on A side has either the right to use Mark Mark Markovic or the right to property of Mark Mark Markovic; the legal concepts are different. In the end, we have a burden sheet, which, among other things, registers a mortgage. That's what a land-book cartridge looks like and that's the only way to use it. Furthermore, the minister says the law will make it easier to obtain credit. No, it won't. No way. My colleagues here have talked about it a lot, I don't want to say it again, because otherwise we don't need to repeat it, we all know something new to say. So, the Minister's intention, and the Ministry and the Government may have been to allow for housing loans, but this law, in this way, did not resolve it. Furthermore, I told the minister that he couldn't tell us that we would understand something better, we understand it well, but he doesn't understand it. Now a pearl who reminded me of Gaš Knezevic in his day when he spoke of the Law on Higher Education. At that time, he said that the law was not passed, it did not exist, it did not take effect, but he is applying it, because some future law of his, and under such a law, Gašo Knezevic, Professor Vojislav Seselj, was driven away from the Faculty of Law. (Glass from the O.R.: Right.) Is he right? I'm sorry you think that, and you're trying to turn one of these discussions on another topic. Now I'm going to use it and tell you, lady who you think you're right, that Professor Vojislav Seselj is the most clever living Serb, that there are the most published works, that all the lawyers and you, who are laughing, the lady from Arangelovec, I don't even know what your name is, shame on you, should stand up when the name of Professor Seselj is mentioned, and not to laugh in your face, we don't allow you, if you brought it from where you came from. And I won't let you mention the name of Seselj, because you don't deserve to mention that man's name.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24244	Please treat each other with respect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24245	Yes, Mr. Mikhailovich, I want you to pay attention to these newspaper readings.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24246	And I draw their attention to them, and I draw your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24247	She looked up from the papers and reacted to what I was saying. So, the right to prevent construction, Minister, you told Zoran Krasic when he said he had no right to prevent construction, and he's gone, he's been abolished by the Schumarac, you said, he's got it in practice. It's amazing that a lawyer can say something that doesn't exist in the law, and it exists in practice. How do you solve it, how do you formulate in practice that right prevents construction? I will remind you, while there was a right to prevent construction, it was determined by the solution, so it is said - Mark Mark Mark Marković is allowed to prevent construction at the part of the plot the number and that, registered in the Z-K UL, the area and the catastrian municipality of that and that, which belongs to its plot to form a unique building plot. That was the essence of the right to prevent construction. So it was determined by a solution. The municipal authority established it by means of a solution. Since you're responding to every comment we've made, I'm going to ask you, when I'm done, to answer how do you establish in practice the right to prevent construction that doesn't exist in the law? I agree that the Law on Planning and Construction is not good. If you haven't been informed, we from the SRS, here in February, two years will be as we filed a motion to put out the force of that law and to pass a good, real law, whether separate planning, separate about construction, that's something we can talk about, because in time the Schumarac messed up five laws in one, and did nothing, did inapplicable law. So you agree in that part that we're right. I warn you that the same way we talked to the Woodman when we told him he was passing inapplicable law. Now I repeat, Zoran Krasic told you, this mortgage law, Minister Parivodic, God of health, we will see each other, we will meet, we will ask you, why are you bringing us a proposal to amend and supplement this law, why don't you today accept that this is an inaccurate and inapplicable law? Why don't you pull him out of the procedure? Why don't you accept our principled principles, some amendments, some key amendments, which really depend on whether this is a mortgage law or not. Let's not go into the theoretical debate that you had with Krasic again, which is a publishing facility at the mortgage, whether it's immobility, the moving thing of course isn't. The car can't be the subject of a mortgage. It is good that you have accepted this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 4, because at least you have cleared these formulations legally; it is clearer legal. Some doubtless this amendment removes. I'm saying it's okay that you've accepted, but don't be vain, Minister, I think you have to accept the fact that here, at least when this law is, we don't usually talk like politicians, we're talking like people from the profession and like people with a lot of experience in these jobs. We talked before you put this law in the procedure informally. You remember we talked about problems that can be encountered in this law. That is why I strongly recommend that the best solution, both for the citizens of Serbia and for the government, should not lead them into the delusion that this law, in this regard, will solve all its problems with enrollment in land books, about the recording of mortgages, the raising of loans, etc. He won't. You will continue to hear in our discussions on amendments, unless you realize in the meantime that it is really best to withdraw the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24248	National MP Marko Krstin. Here you go. You were looking for a replica? You'll be kind enough to introduce yourself since you're a new MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24249	Dear Vice President, I am Miroslava Gusic, I am sorry to be called again, Mr. Minister, in the presence of the previous time of one, and now the other minister, who has been put in a position to defend myself against the primitives and the prodigals that are pronounced here at the pay phone, and I am sorry that you have not responded. It's probably, tell your fellow MPs -- you crying there, that's probably, and I don't know where you come from, which I'm being referred to, it's probably the archaism of the locality from where the letter comes from. I'm just saying that I don't have that kind of idolatry at all, as representatives of the largest party represented in parliament are fostering, and my smallness has had the honor, imagine the honor, that on TV show "Sun" in Arangelovac, that's where I come from, I'm having a conversation with your greatest Serb, living and smartest, Mr. Vojislav Seselj. (Momir Markovic, from the scene: That is the greatest honor for you and was. Who said only this after a two-hour show: "Ma'am, you've prepared very well for the show, in fact you've prepared very well for the show." I said, "Mr. Seselj, I wasn't getting ready for the show at all."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24250	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24251	I think it's about time you G17 plus stopped wondering where the MP's from. Ma'am, I'm a Serbian born in Livne. I've already heard here a remark the other day that October 5th, a colleague of yours said, I don't know why he mentioned October 5th, he said -- unlike you, I wasn't in Livno on October 5th, I was already in Belgrade. I guess he wanted to boast that you from the G17 plus the 5th of October burned the Assembly, stole pictures, stole valuables, beat people, lynched people in front of the building, and now that this kind of debate was interrupted, that October 5th I was a deputy minister of justice and a member of the commission who was interrogating for a professional exam all day long. While you were tearing down Belgrade, I was sitting in the ministry doing my job and questioning administrative law, those who were coming to pass a professional exam. As for idolatry, dear lady, Vojislav Seselj deserves everything we Serbian radicals do for him, deserves much more than for Serbian radicals, but for Serbia. Serbia is obliged to take care and do everything possible to get Vojislav Seselj back to Serbia, because as long as the SRS is needed, it is much more necessary for Serbia. The fact that he once complimented you that you were well prepared for the show, he's a gentleman man, and as much as you were willing or unprepared you would certainly as a lady from him get such a compliment. You should have noticed that when you were with him on the show. What I said was that you were complaining, it's really the only expression I could use, which came to mind at the moment when you laughed very rudely at mentioning the name of Dr. Vojislav Seselj's professor. He is the greatest living Serb, he is the smartest living Serb, he is the man who defends and defends Serbian national interests in The Hague. He is a man who will defeat The Hague tribunal, which will tear him apart there, as he has already done in this part of the testimony in the case of Slobodan Milosevic. You will hear in the promotion of his book and I am taking this opportunity, thank you for challenging me to speak on the subject, to inform the citizens of Belgrade, that on Friday at 1600 hours, the defence team, which helps prepare the defence of Vojislav Seselj, led by Tomislav Nikolic, organises in the House of Unions the promotion of Seselj's book, where Mr Seselj's testimony was presented in the case of Milosevic and those who were not in a position to follow it all on TV, will be able to read in that book and to hear at that promotion what the prominent lawyers, experts and politicians of Serbia think of Professor Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24252	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic, then the replica Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24253	That's nice of you to say, ma'am. I've had the honor. You've had the great honor of sitting next to Dr. Vojislav Seselj's professor, and now you're proving that you didn't deserve the honor. Mr. Vojislav Seselj is first of all a very tolerated man and accepts to go on TV duels with those who are not even up to his knees, for the simple reason that he does not have an equal in Serbia. If he waited to find himself a match, if he went to his TV duel, then our president could never go to a duel in Serbia. There is no equal professor, Dr. Vojislav Seselj. Now let me interpret this term as a sniveling. There's a smile with irony, there's a smile with joy, and this is what they say about us in Serbia -- laughing like crazy on flour.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24254	Mr. Albianic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24255	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what you need to discuss with the G17 Plus party. Actually, we don't have anything in common. So, we work responsibly, we want Serbia to be a normal country, a democratic country, that citizens live better, we don't tell empty stories, we don't answer for a pay phone, why they can't speak freely, and the citizens know and see it, I actually care about tradition, and I can freely say that I'm a Serb, not small or big, actually a Serb. There's nothing special to add. You're trying in one wrong way to point out something like that, but since you're talking about something like that, I have to tell you that your empty story is from three parts. One is Serbia to Tokyo. The second part is, we're going to beat the whole world and, third part is, hold the thief. Of all that, all your policies consisting of those three parts, you're left with nothing but a thief. Now that you mention a set, I think it would be really appropriate for what you said in earlier periods to bring this to Tesla's secret weapon to help you both at this rally and in other activities. I really don't think it's appropriate for you to argue that way with the MP group, with the MPs, with the party G17 plus. We do our job very clearly and responsibly. I don't need to remind you that I said I'd bring you to a proper pace. The beginning is the election at Backo Palanca. See where you were, whether Tomislav Nikolic had 40%, whether you now have 27%, whether we have four times increased the number of votes in Bačka Palanca and you are counting on who and why without arguments you are conflicting. Don't do that. It'll come back to you. The longer you work and the more you flaunt here without arguments, the sooner the citizens realize they're empty demagogue stories. I'm really asking you in that sense to be courteous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24256	The People's MP, the Prophet of Radet, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24257	Here, I'll do the Krassic for them. First of all, fellow Albianic, you weren't in the O.R., we've been here discussing and discussing from 10.00 hours, in fact we've been plowing with Minister Parivodić about the mortgage law in particular, very professionally, very responsible and very serious. The minister disagrees with us, probably doesn't agree with your parliamentary group either, we have different concepts and thank God we have different concepts. I'd worry about us getting along and in one piece with G17 plus, of course not. And while I was talking about the amendment, and while I was doing one example, just to remind you, since you weren't in the O.R., explained Minister Parivodic that former Minister Gašo Knezevic was talking about laws that were not passed and applied, which Mr. Parivodić here today also said at one point, at the time, that your colleague, who had now come out, had a very rude laugh at the mention of the name of the president of the SRS. Whenever, and wherever, and whoever mentions it, or smiles and mentions it in an ugly way with the irony of Vojislav Seselj, we Serbian radicals will comment, report, defend ourselves, and because we think we have who and why. The fact that you, as your colleague says, are not idolaters, is your problem, neither are we, but you have another problem. You have a problem with not knowing who your party president is, you have three pieces, you're so well torn. Who's your president, is he the same as that colleague who just got out of the O.R., who I don't know his name, I really don't know, and that's your thing. To teach someone to be decent, Mr. Albianic, then first, if you belong to Dinkic, Labus and these others who are related to various malfeasances and financial machinations, first explain to them that being decent means being honest. Someone who's a thief, I'm not telling you personally, to be clear, can't be polite. What you're talking about is the election result in Backo Palanca, you know how you ran that campaign, you know that some of you moved there, that's your right, I just don't know whose money you spent, but we'll talk about it some other time. But for the sake of the public, since everyone has announced that the SRS in Backo Palanca has now won two parliamentary terms less than it had, but no one has published, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to say now that the SRS in Backo Palanca won 1,600 votes more Sunday than in previous elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24258	Please, replica, MP Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24259	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, first of all, I do not allow the honorable colleague from Arangelovac, Miroslava Gusic, to be spoken of. She's decent, she's a responsible woman from the Arangelovac, you can ask all the Arangelovites how she is and how she works, decent, responsible, honest, and honest and what the opinion of the citizens of Arandelovac about her. As for the remarks that I am not in the Assembly Hall, you well know that I am ten times more present in the O.R. than your head of Parliament, and perhaps more, you know that I am the head of the parliamentary group who is most present in the O.R. than the other bosses, so let the low observation really not stand. The G17 plus party, thank God, is not related to any malfeasance and your inventions and attempts to plant that kind, and the dictionary of the type "the thieves", it's actually clear now that it belongs to you and I have no intention of dealing with your vocabulary and your way of talking. As for Bucky Palanca, you certainly know the fact that, as far as G17 plus goes, I opened a campaign in Backo Palanca, and I am proud of that, because my statement then and on local television, otherwise it said that I would bring radicals to a decent pace. That's how it's gonna be. As far as our party is concerned, I really want to say that it is very responsible for doing its job in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are leading European integration. You can see the extent of the reforms in the previous year, these are also estimates of the World Bank, and of the international institutions, and of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and you can actually see which way in the whole of the Government of the Republic of Serbia runs this country. Whatever's going on here and trying to do empty demagogue stories, the grades on the outside are clearly telling which way our country is going. Why does it matter? It is important because of the citizens of Serbia, because we want our country to be like other European countries, because when you ask how these ten countries that have become members of the European Union live, you will realize that they are better living, that they are better wages, therefore, all that we would like to do in our country. There are opportunities to have free flow of goods, capital and services together with other European countries, so they have become competitive and can be partners with other European countries. That is our country's goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24260	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24261	First of all, I had no objection that, Mr. Albianic, you weren't in the O.R. in principle, but I said you weren't in the O.R. at the moment I was speaking, and that's true. I don't care how much time you spend in the O.R. That's absolutely your problem. Neither should you worry about how many heads of parliament's group, or the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, is staying in the hall. As you can see, Tomislav Nikolic has a parliamentary group of 80 MPs, each capable at every moment of representing the party's views, and of attacking the government's proposals, and of attacking certain representatives of certain parties. Of course, all with absolute consent and agreement at the MP's club with Tomislav Nikolic. So what he's doing now and why he's not here should not be your problem, because he's doing very important jobs for the state of Serbia, although he belongs to the main opposition party for now. You said the thief was our radical expression. It's not. It's a Serbian folk term, but it's used for Dinkic. There's something you didn't understand, I don't know what the misunderstanding is, a synonym, that's what Krasic is called a synonym. You're talking about the grades on the outside. It would be better to praise this people for what you have done to make this people live better and for the citizens of Serbia to notice that this government is doing something, to do something useful for the citizens of Serbia, and not to be likely, like that unfortunate person who represents himself president of all citizens, and the president is DS, Boris Tadic, going after America and complaining about the SRS, at the SRS rating. Instead of ensuring that he lobbys for Kosovo and Metohija within the Republic of Serbia, he lobbys to gain support for the fight against the SRS. As for ma'am, here's what I see here that says Miroslav Gusic, saying we don't know who she is. The woman's been in this parliament lately, and it makes perfect sense that I didn't remember her name. She just called here twice to replicate. It does not mean that he will not report, that he will not be an active member of this Parliament and an active MP. That's not what I was talking about. Just to remind me that a member of the G17 Municipal Committee plus from Arangelovac says, of course, I will not tell him his name, there is no man on the globe who hates SRS more than Miroslava Gusic. (President: Time. ) I apologize, only half a minute, it's just that member of your Municipal Committee in Arangelovac who provided us with a photocopy of that famous call when you celebrated the party's three-year existence, so it's proposed agenda: point 1 - laying down the account of the president of the municipal board for the past period, point 2 - the address of MP Miroslava Gusic, point 3 - roasting (jag, pigs, fish), point 4 - drink of choice and afinity, point 5 - music, song and play, point 6 - variety. We've heard that, thank God, that guy who hugged at point three has arrived on time and, thank God, the guy's alive and well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24262	Please, in order, slowly, there's no reason. Just a second to ask. You're the one who called, Mr. Perry? It's a business thing. He'll have the word first, Mr. Peric. Let's not fall for all kinds of documents, the noodles aren't roasting. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24263	Mr. President Markovic, I would ask you to warn Mr. Albianic, because he spends a lot of Parliament time, comes out and says G17, so he takes a real break, looks around the hall, then says plus. Whether or not you forget it, but I think you should pay attention, just look back. I think most of the time is spent explaining what G17 is, plus. Next, I answered because Mr. Albianic told a lie to the Rules of Procedure, he said that the people lived better. I think it's a lie. We should ask the citizens how they live. It's not true that people live best now. The best people in G17 live because they have cash registers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24264	How's it going, Mr. Perry? Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24265	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't say that citizens live better. It's an evaluation of each individual's lives. I'm not saying that living well, I simply said, the government of the Republic of Serbia does everything to make citizens better living, because experiences from other countries that have passed the transition and reforms talk about it. Very clear. Now dignity does not allow me to deal with different types of expressions and political controversy. In fact, I urge that we continue to work towards the agenda. I'm not going to use my replica right in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24266	Thank you. You've stayed up to your decision. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24267	It is every MP's duty to speak the truth from this pay phone. I heard here from MP Albianic that he said what is contrary to the truth, which is when it comes to the election results in Backo Palanca. To support his untruth, he said, he opened a pre-election campaign for his parliamentary group or party, as it is called, or NGOs, in words, he will honour Serbian radicals. Maybe the SRS wouldn't have had such good results in Backo Palanca if they hadn't gone like this to run their party's election campaign. We might have fewer votes, and hence, less than a percentage of the government's participation that these weren't there. Thanks to such individuals, their participation in parliamentary life, their party's involvement in power, the SRS has seen better results than previous elections. Every time the election is on a local or any other level, you show up all of you as a person, and always court the SRS and we'll be grateful to you. Mr. Albianic, I am simply forced to think that at the time of your birth, the police first went out to make an insight, and to see if you were a human creature or someone else, and later determined your sex. Don't mess with the SRS, because that's what you do to your stranger.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24268	Please, Mr. Mircic, I warn you you can't do that, Mr. Mircic, Mr. Mircic, I have to take your word for it, I've turned off your microphone. Mr Mircic, I would like once again to warn you, please, I understand that lapus when you said at the beginning, of course, in no way is the MP obliged to speak the truth in the Rules of Procedure, protects him from immunity. He speaks his political confidence. He's advocating the arguments he has. Not to mention private life, especially offensive. Please, I'll give you your time, I'm warning you not to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24269	It's not that, Mr. President, how you interpreted it. For the sake of truth, I just mentioned the fact that maybe the militia was present. Who has the authority rather than the police to confirm whether something is in accordance with the law, whether it is true or not. I didn't think for a moment that I was getting involved in a private life. Besides, I don't need to get into that kind of confusion. So, Mr. Albianic, whenever you have a chance, you go out for a pay phone and break with Serbian radicals. Each of your polemics brings certain popularity to the SRS. In your party, I guess one day this faction of yours will understand how you and how you contribute to your party's popularity and we don't want to interfere. You enter here as special units, as paratroopers, and then you open up the controversy with the SRS, and the SRS MPs turn to Minister Parivodic, a man who doesn't even hide in public that he has sympathy for the SRS. That's the kind of sympathy a man has to even say that the tax that Lafarge needs to pay depends on whether the president of Beocin municipality is up on his left or right foot. Imagine what a crush that is. Mr. Parisian, if you can guess which leg, you might come across a surprise.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24270	I'm sorry, I didn't follow up on the previous part of the discussion. I wasn't there. Compared to this, I don't see it, but the third speaker who doesn't really get called to the Rules of Procedure at all, I see it as a mockery of the Parliament's dignity. It's very important, we're all aware of that, to discuss it today. In the morning part, while I was in the building, before I went to the doctor, I saw that the expert discussion was conducted. It is our duty. I appeal to all of you to return to this kind of debate, because this is a legislative body and it is the first job of this House. Of course, political debates are also under way, but they must have a measure. Please have an understanding. National MP Marko Krstin, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24271	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, on the subject of the amendment, as we have so far. I think we should get the debate back, exactly what the president said, to talk about the laws. The colleague who spoke before me spoke about the list of immovableities, denying it...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24272	I'm sorry, I'm going to be rude, Mr. Krstin, but we have to check, since they're giving me a sign, the claim is that the amendment to the title above the Article 4 and the 4th Minister has accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24273	My colleague interpreted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24274	According to the Rules of Procedure, interpretation. You see, it's good to be clear with each other. Excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24275	My colleague may not have understood me, but it is a list of immovableities that have been a substitute for a copy of the land book, according to the Law on Preference and Cataster, and registrations of the right to immovable property since 1992. True, the law predicted that a single record, which was not set up within ten years, was to be established, which was to pool data from the catastra, which contained ownership, land-book data, which contained property data for one part of Serbia. This law applies, and I can tell you from practice that its application has shown that the cadastre has been very successful in taking over property data, not only by automatically applying data from land books, but by virtually reinventating data, because owners have brought documents and updated their property rights. Therefore, the list of immovableities is indeed, under this law, a complete replacement for an earlier copy of the land book, i.e. a land-book cartridge. It contains all the necessary parts, with them, unlike the land-book cartridge, which is alphabetically written, of course, by our letter, by our alphabet. This list of immovableities is what I was talking about and it really contains entries and those objects that are not finished, those objects that do not have a building permit, which have no construction permit, and they do not have a license and a series of other variants that can happen. As a result, in fact, this law allows one such law to be passed and that on such facilities, which have on the ground note that there is an unfinished object, it also registers a mortgage. In terms of the right to prevent construction, which the colleague here talked about, whether or not she had it, I think we all know that since 1952 and the Law on the Nationalisation of Rental Buildings and Building Land there was the right to use the owner of the building land, because of the property that turned into use, so when the owner wanted to build a house on his land, he sought the right to prevent construction, by building as many buildings as he had allowed. Since the law was put out of force and abolished, the right to prevent construction has ceased. So, the rights to prevent construction that were up to the Law on Planning and Planning of Space, remained the rights to prevent construction, and in the future such rights cannot be established. However, this law, which we are now talking about, about planning and building, practically enables traffic to be achieved by building land that is in state property, because it enables rightholders to use it to transfer the land, which they have been doing so far, but contrary to the law. According to earlier regulations, such traffic was nothing. So this law on construction, which we're talking about, allows such land to be put into circulation, which is indeed a big step forward and what is the intensity of the law -- to allow landowners, whose unfair land was taken away, to put it into circulation, until the issue of state property is resolved on that land. The mortgage law, together with this law and the Law on Preference and Catastro and Immobilizations, completes the possibility that all these possibilities that these two laws establish can be used to build people up, to get loans and to enroll them, on the one hand, and that whoever gave them the credit, if the loan is not paid, can put that property into sale, whether the country, whether it was an object, started or completed, without permission, and that it would charge it out of the price. I think this is a good law and the G17 plus will vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24276	To be clear, this was about the amendment, according to the Rules of Procedure, misreading in speech before the amendment was accepted before these political debates started. I draw attention to Mr. Secretary, with all these amendments, it is possible to accept them before reason. Mr. Humane, be nice, we agreed, tolerance doesn't hurt. There's only one kind of tolerance: either it's there or it's gone. I also draw attention to the fact that a whole series of amendments that will be accepted, as was the case before, by the proposing representatives -- Minister Parivodic, will have to be voted on, as they usually lack the opinion of one committee. Let's have an understanding. No matter what formal conditions there are, there's no reason to discuss them when we accept them. I'm asking if it's the case now. The amendment was submitted to the title above Article 5 by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative accepts this amendment. So that's it. At the same time, I would like to inform you, under Article 85, today we will be working until the hearing is over in the details of the item on the agenda at 1800 hours. The title above article 6 and article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The applicant's representative accepts this amendment. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 6th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24277	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to tell that colleague who was saying that he was going to bring radicals to some extent, that he was wrong. And he'll always be wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24278	Mr. Jojic, we've barely finished. Be kind and just about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24279	It's over, just one warning. How does a colleague think he's bringing someone to a certain extent? Here, I'll go out in the hallway now, let him tell me how he thinks to do it. Here, I'm asking him to have coffee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24280	Here you go, Mr. Jojic. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Are you going out in the hallway? No, it's a metaphor. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24281	What is observed in this assembly, when MPs make amendments, they must be accepted. When amendments are submitted by opposition MPs, these amendments are viewed quite differently and are not accepted as a rule. But we do not want to influence, nor can we, nor will we oppose such a method of work, but there is one that says: whenever, gentlemen, in power you climb up the stairs, look after those people you pass by, because when you come down from power down those stairs, those same people are waiting for you, and then think about what kind of welcome you can be. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for being coerced, because I couldn't help but say this for the reason that it was below the level of an MP to threaten MPs to bring them to some extent. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SRS, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6, where I have proposed that certain amendments be made in Article 6(1). In fact, attitude 1 is changed and it says: "On the property of a multiple person, the mortgage can only be designed with the consent of all co-owners." Why? The mortgage on the ideal part is not possible, because the principle of indivisibility of the hostage object does not allow the immovableity to be treated in certain parts, but only as a whole, or overall immovableity. The right to immovableity, the main right to provide mortgage and immovableity as a publishing facility, are different concepts. What the legislator stated in paragraph 1 was governed by the provisions of the law on bond relations and on claims on demand and certain rights. What this proposal says is that certain regulatory and certain procedures have to be regulated in accordance with the Implementing Procedure Act, I do not think that the law does not comply with the Implementing Procedure Act. In this regard, the draft law does not provide for the possibility of a lawsuit in a litigation procedure, because the Law on the Executive Procedure provides for the initiation of a litigation procedure without the court's reference, in Article 24. Article 24 reads: "The persons who claim to have a right to prevent enforcement, until the execution of the enforcement procedure and without referring to the court referred to in Article 23 paragraph 4 of this Act, to refer the trustee to a litigation procedure for the inadmissibility of the enforcement of the case". You see, there may be a need here for someone of legal interest to challenge the claim completely or partially. Therefore, it is not possible for a person to contact the court in this proposal to prove to the court that the mortgage does not comply with the legal rules and that it does not comply with all the provisions, nor with the conditions provided for by other regulations. The Law on Liabilities, the Law on Publishing Law, treats and allows citizens to address them even through appeal, through appeal, but that they can address the competent court. That's especially the case, you'll have a situation like this in practice. The problem is practice, because we've had years back of passing certain laws, but the problem is in practice because they don't come across reception and can't be applicable, many of the provisions of the law. You have provisions that say that the right of the hostage is a right to real estate. The SRS believes that the publishing right can be established in land and cadastrian books, especially in cadastrian books as a fiction of absolute accuracy. These data in land books can be monitored and controlled when they are established and checked for changes in land-booked conditions, i.e. in the land-booked sheet, in the A list, in the list B, in the C list, in whether there was a burden, whether or not someone else could have carried out the transfer of ownership rights, transfer of rights of use, etc. This must be subject to control by persons entering a legal relationship. This means that both the trustee and the debtor are obliged to follow the public book, and the cadastar and land books are public books in which all have the right to insight. It is a bit of a problem with the Tapi system, as it makes the situation difficult, there is no catastre in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. Land books are in Vojvodina according to the Austrian-Hungarian system, Belgrade is covered by land books and other districts, but the problem is in those areas where land-book conditions have not yet been arranged through catasters or land-books. What do I think the mortgage is? The mortgage is a legitimate right to immovable property based on which its titler, a mortgage trustee, may request the settlement of his claim from the mortgaged matter if that claim is not paid within the time limit, and in that case the subject matter of the mortgage remains in the sovereign debtor. The question arises when we give this bill the opportunity, i.e. the proposer, to build a mortgage on moving things, on moving and immovable things. Now it's a matter of the collapse of things, of the change of titlers, of the disappearance of things, etc., and of the matter that the subject remains in the state. The mortgage is an accessory, additional, non-permanent law regarding demand for which security serves an exception i.e. So-called a property mortgage that can exist on its own. It is, unlike the guarantee, which represents personal security, a kind of real debt security. Therefore, the SRS considers that this law should firstly apply to immovableities. What's the aim of the promoter? The pressure is still banks that have entered our country, owners are abroad, operating under our regulations, they need guarantees and security, especially if they give credit. If they give loans will and guarantees, which is perfectly normal for legal certainty to be provided in one legal state. The problem is with a real estate that hasn't been built yet. There will be enormous abuses in practice. You'll have examples like this, someone gets a loan, they've got land, they'll prove it by a similar correction, or a copy of a land book, or a copy of a cadastra, they'll get a loan, and they'll hit the ground floor. The degree of construction of the facility is extremely important to the trustee. Why? Because the debtor can play the trustee. He can lift the ground floor. Like, he took a loan, millions, and he says, "I'm raising the house, the ground floor, the floor and the attic." There may be abuses. They can predict. I'm saying that these consequences and abuses are predictable. He will build the ground floor, take credit from the bank, from the creditors, not from anyone, he has a cousin, a son, a daughter, a wife, with her fictitious divorce, she goes to another street or to another address, builds a house in her name or in the name of her son. The degree of construction of the facility did not oblige it to put the facility in a state, therefore, to foresee such obligations that it could not manipulate the trustee, under any conditions. Then it's the risk of the trustee, and then we put him in a situation and the trustee to see from the block syporex that the ground floor is walled, and he's created the possibility of building a house on the other side. I think there's got to be more security. Here's the focus mostly to protect the trustee at all costs. It is not good in the law that, in the case of sales of immovable property, lawyers and real estate agencies are involved. These are opportunities for malfeasance, for the object to lower the price, for the object to go away, for the debtor to come into such a situation that he cannot defend himself and his property will go to nothing. I think that sale, and if it does, it would have to go through court. So, the court's decision. What happens in court proceedings? The lawyer will hire his artist, his friend. He's got a receipt. The one who's on the court's list, when a judge makes a decision, when it comes to judicial authority, there are fewer possibilities for abuses and fewer opportunities for malfeasance. Then there was corruption, an opportunity to negotiate, and thus the debtor would be able to run out of property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24282	Thank you. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic tabled on behalf of the SRS amendment, asking to be deleted in Article 7(3). Paragraph 3 reads: "A part of the claim that is not secured by a mortgage can only be charged from other debtors' assets. "This particular example, which Mr. Jojic spoke of, is an ideal example. You take the place, you start building a residential and business facility, you get a building permit, this facility that hasn't been built yet, which is still lazier, you mortgage, you raise a big loan, you lift the ground floor, you stop building, in the meantime you fictitiously divorcise with your wife, your wife goes away and from that same money that you get to build another business facility. Since the facility is mortgaged, the bank that gave the loan is in a position to sell and collect. He sells the ground floor, and you have nothing in your name anymore, you have no property, because in the meantime you divorced your wife and signed everything in her name, and the bank remains denied this part of the funds. The mortgage didn't finish the job she was set up for. The debtor didn't settle the debt. The one who gave the loan couldn't settle. That's why I think this item 3 needs to be deleted. Of course, another solution must be found. Speaking of which, let me say something about the amendment to Article 6(1). He says, "The mortgage on the ideal part of the immovable thing in the co-owned owner of the ideal part is based without the consent of the other co-owners." The father leaves the apartment with his children, three children, ideal co-owners, one has the right to raise a loan, to mortgage the entire apartment without the consent of the other two. That's something to think about. And this member is not right. That is why I propose that the amendment of MP Gordana Pop-Lazic be adopted and Article 3 deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24284	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Milajic, by the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24285	Article 7 regulates the security of claims. Paragraph 1 states that any claim, either future or conditional claim or claim expressed in foreign currency, can be secured by a mortgage. In Section 2, we're talking about the realisation of the settlement of the claim - what that includes. So it covers the main debt, interest and the cost of the settlement process. However, paragraph 3 speaks of a situation where the mortgage cannot settle the entire claim and remains part of a debt that is not settled by mortgage and says the debt part corresponds to the rest of its assets. (Milan Parivodić, from the site: Part of the claim that is not provided. ) Yes, it has not been provided since the beginning, meaning it will settle from the rest of the debtor's assets. That part, so it's not about the mortgage, it's about bond relations. It's a pure bond relationship between a debtor and a trustee and it absolutely doesn't belong to this matter, in the matter of real rights, it doesn't belong to the matter of the mortgage. The consequences are different. I would like to give you a concrete example that the deadlines of limitations in bond-law relations and in real legal relations are different. Article 371. The Law on Liabilities provides that for applications of a general limitation period of five years, and in real rights these deadlines are much longer, so that the consequences resulting from bonds-legal relations and real-legal relations are different and this attitude does not fall within this matter. It may now seem like a cleavage, a little bit, but throughout the bill, the bonds law institutes are being implemented, and in a lot of members, we'll explain it through the amendments. We think that these bond law institutes, firstly, are regulated by most of the bonding laws, and if there is a need to regulate some of the relationships that come out of the real-legal relationship, then they should be regulated by a special law, not this law. This may seem to be formal trinkets, however, these are fundamental and essential differences, because if there were no fundamental and essential differences between real-legal and bonds they would be in one law, there would be no specific laws, the Law on bond relations and the Law on the basis of real-legal relations, but it would be one civil code or I don't already know how. It was the legislator and the one who proposed the laws that wanted to highlight the difference between bonds-legislative and real-legislative relations precisely because of the consequences produced by each other's relations. This will be seen through other amendments to other members, that what is regulated by the Law on Liabilities should be regulated there and should be in the Law on Liabilities, and what belongs to the matter of real law should be regulated or by the Law on the Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, which already exists, or by this Law on the Mortgage which would be biolex specialis in relation to the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24286	Anyone else on this amendment? Mr. Krasic. You'll get your word, let's just hear it from the minister first.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24287	I guess I'll explain this amendment to you why I'm refusing it, so we don't waste any time. The essence of this Article 7 item is precisely in the protection of debtors. What's this about? He says this - part of a loan that is not secured by a mortgage can only be charged from other debtors' assets. This is an affirmation of the principle of speciality spoken of by Mr Krasic. The demand is tied, the mortgage is tied to one particular claim, and that claim is, say, a million dinars. It may be that the claim is greater, that a million and a half dinar is a claim, but that what it is is secured by a mortgage is a million. The total claim is a million-and-a-half, but a million dinars are recorded for that claim. Now the next question is asked. If the trustee sells the immovable property and gets the money from that immovableity, he gets two million dinars, whether he can now be charged for a million and a half. to collect the hirographic part of the claim that wasn't secured by half a million or just the part that was provided. We felt that this provision was necessary to protect the debtor, that those half a million remaining would be paid back to the debtor, and then that half a million would enter into the general property of the debtor and then that the trustee would be charged out of that asset equally with other creditors, and not that he would be de facto extended to the security of the claim and to the part that was not abitio provided. In this way, the debtor is protected, so that he does not abuse the mortgage and retain more money on himself than he should on mortgage terms, to enter into the general property, and thus protect others equally with other hirographic trusts, which is the basic principle of the hirographic trustee, that they all be equal. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24288	Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24289	It is precisely because of these reasons explained by Minister Parivodic that the amendment should be adopted. Very simple and simple. You, Minister, missed the subject. Why? Because you haven't looked again at what the definition of a mortgage is, that it's a means of security of claims, a means of security of a classic bond, as a means of security serves immobility with its assets. It is burdened to the height of the claim and now to return to this amendment. What you stated in attitudes 1 and 2 is acceptable. Why? Because the mortgage also provides the part of the financial claim that can cover the conditional claim, future etc., and there is no dispute. Why are we asking to delete Section 3? Because attitude three can just lead to this interpretation that you've given, and it's wrong and it shouldn't be applied. Why? The mortgage is burdened by the principle of accesority and the fact that it is a means of security of claim. That means one person took a loan, say, in the amount of a hundred. As a means of security, it accepted and entered a mortgage on some immovable property and this immovableity was burdened, for example, with a table, and the value of that immovableity at the moment when the mortgage was entered was, say, 120. So the immovableity has a far greater value than the amount for which the mortgage on immovable property is put. In the meantime, things can happen, that at a time when the debtor does not fulfil his obligation to the trustee and the trustee acquires the right to activate the mortgage, to collect his claim from the value of the property, in this particular case of the table, it may happen that due to more force, elemental disasters, changes in market conditions, because by market principles there is a realisation, i.e. the cashing of the immovableity, and for that immobility by all the artis principles, 70 is charged and there remains unsettled demand, a major claim, of 30, now in this story we forget interest and some other things. This claim by the trustee can be settled from other assets, from the other set of property rights of his debtor, but it is a classic bond. That's no place in this law. It's not exactly a place in this law. You have in this law well prescribed the situation, when the value of the immovable property sold to realize the mortgage is far greater than the amount of mortgage, then in the case of sales, etc., but you are now in the mortgage law trying to settle something which is the main claim. There's no possibility, there's no room in this law. You don't lose anything to this Article 7 without heading 3, because this is understood by the general principles of bond law. So if I have a claim of my own, I can secure it and charge it with different means. So in one situation the mortgage appears to me to be the first means of security of payment, but in order to settle its claim to me, the mortgage can even appear in the last place. We can arrange to settle my previous claim by removing funds from the debtor's account. Only then in the final stage to get to the mortgage. By the logic of things, mortgage is a central means of security of claim. So don't lose anything to this calming story. I'm talking about the bond, I'm talking about the main law, about the main claim, the trustee can always set him up by the general rules that apply to bond relations, but when you put that rule into the mortgage law the way it's prescribed by Article 3, there's a confusion. Part of a loan that's not secured by a mortgage, that's another thing. That part of the claim doesn't touch the mortgage law. I'm telling you about it right now. That part of the claim is not subject to the interest of the mortgage law. I can have a claim against you 200. For 100 I'm looking for a mortgage, for 100 I'm not looking for a mortgage. Is that right? That part where I'm not looking for a mortgage, why you're putting it into this mortgage bill. It can't be charged, because, as you don't understand, in principle, how it can keep money when it has the right to a certain amount that's listed in the real estate books, so the money has a mortgage burden, so it can't keep. In your performance of such things will be. Woe to him whom ye protect. In your performance it will be because you give the trustee the right to update the mortgage and collect his claims, and that will be an example. But I'm telling you about a normal system. In the normal system, this provision is not a place in the mortgage law, but it exists in the general rules of the Bond Relations Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24290	There's no discussion during the speech. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 11th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister doesn't accept. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24291	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The draft mortgage law, by proposing that Article 2 and 3 be deleted. Items 2 and 3 provide for the entry of a mortgage on the building facility. Serbian radicals believe that the mortgage can only be entered on existing immovableity, and the publishing facility by its legal essence is what Serbian Radicals proposed by amendment to Article 3, agricultural land, forest land, city building land, building land, houses, residential buildings, business buildings, auxiliary economic buildings, apartments, business premises and garages. So these are these immovableities on which a mortgage can be entered. As I was saying, these properties are the only ones on which a mortgage can be entered and created, because by its definition, the mortgage is a legitimate right to real estate on the basis of which its holder, or mortgage trustee, can seek a settlement of the mortgage claim. Mr. Minister, real construction is not the point. Therefore, in land books, I am telling you as a practical lawyer, therefore, with decades of experience, there is a premise, there can be entered right of construction, but the notation, or burden cannot, can only be entered into immovableity and be convinced, if you do not adopt amendments to the SRS, what you have proposed, will not be applied in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24292	Following the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24293	Mr. Markovic, you've stepped up the procedure, and you've also flown this amendment through Mr. Miljko Cetrovic, so I'm going to cover it with two or three sentences. In this amendment to Article 10, we are asking that the point behind the word "judgment" be put into effect and that the rest of the text be deleted, because at this moment you cannot explain to anyone what you wrote here. "The second law-authorised body for the overing of the signatures on the immovable transport acts. "As far as I know, only the court is currently bound by regulations. If you mean those who prepare, I mean lawyers, to be unsuccessful notaries, it's nothing. Only unsuccessful lawyers can be notaries, successful ones don't want to. But if you put that on, then this law means nothing. This law doesn't need anything, because when our notaries catch it, we can't even control the court, let alone the private notaries. Don't do that, please. We ask that the position 2: "The mortgage agreement can be concluded by the owner, the owner of another right to a fixed matter, as well as by the investor and the buyer of the facility in the building or a special part of the facility etc." It's completely unnecessary here, because basically you know who can give consent and burden the immovableity. Only a real estate owner can do that. Here you have the future uncertain and indeterminate owner. Let me go back to this Article 11 Mr. Koprivica was talking about. You see, there's a difference here between the first attitude on one side and the other and the third attitude on the other side. Why? Your member has the title - enrolment. In the first position, it moves nicely - the entry of the contracted mortgage is made on request. Whoever submits a request for a mortgage, and it is well said - the owner, or his legal representative, the debtor, the trustee, but it is understood that it is someone who has the basis to submit such a request, and he originates from one contract. It could be that big deal, it could be a special mortgage contract, it doesn't matter what this story is. What's important for this amendment of ours, you're already in 2nd and 3rd positions, you're going with another matter, because that's the second area. She's not status. You see, within the first attitude you have three points where you define or specify the status of a person. It's more or less one of the parties. In the second and third you go into the methodology and the way the enrolment is done and for what, for something that's a turbo exception. So Article 3, point 6) and these are the rights, you know, ourselves, that we've been going around all day, the building facility, etc. You're giving the enrollment technique here now, but that's not the place in this article. Please, in the first position, you speak and define enrolment in terms of the applicant's enrolment request. In the second and third attitudes, you concentrate only on Article 3(6) and you do not go through the methodology of the first position that applies, but you are talking about the methodology of what is entered, how is entered, what is understood, what does it mean. They're your first attitude, your second and third frogs. If you had divided it into a member, it would have made some sense. This doesn't make any sense. He goes on to say, "If the building facility changes owners, the new owner enters the rights and obligations of the previous owner to the persons in whose favour the mortgage is entered. "It has nothing to do with the first and second attitudes. It's that copy and paste on your computer, we cut one sentence here, we transfer it to this member, and this member has no legal logic, and that's why we've proposed an amendment to stay here just as classically means enrolment, because Section 2 and 3 does not mean enrolment. I don't want to bring you back on the subject of what's wrong with attitudes 2 and 3. What you wrote in attitudes 2 and 3 means a sparrow in the hand, or to be more precise, a pigeon on the branch. No one's living this knows. This entry, I'll tell you right away, from item 2 point 1) and 2) may be carried out by someone in the catastro, Minister. But you know how. Because he thinks he's very brave and he can do anything. This type of entry in land books in court is not a judge -- who works to approve those solutions, which formally and legally only sign, we know that everyone else works in that department -- in the Republic of Serbia will not sign. That's what I'm telling you. None. Why am I telling you this? Mr Jojic gave you the views of the case-law of the Republic of Serbia on the mortgage and the collection of claims, the activation of the mortgage, etc. Mr. Koprivica told you, he told you about his experience as a lawyer, how he works in a book, a note, a note. Mrs. Radeta gave you her experience. As a longtime manager in the municipality of Zemun, who worked in property and legal affairs and directly co-operated with courts about enrolment of immovable property etc. and part of the experience as deputy minister of justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're trying to help you, get this law back to what you call traditional. It'll make sense. This kind of papazian, a mess, you see in article 11, which is a mess and confusion. This is attitude 1, 2. and 3. they don't communicate with each other. There's no liquid thought in which to expose the norm. This is literally said, come on out of two members we'll make one member. It's happening to me, no wonder, that I'm having a flake there in some attitude, and I'm just beginning to notice that he doesn't belong there. In that sense, I explain to you that with this amendment we are trying to do this as much as we can, as you say, in a traditional way. Something that's normal, something that's been around us for so many years. I don't think by adopting this amendment, you're hurting anything. Why? This is still a technical question, especially in paragraph 2. A guide is given to what is written and how is written, and when what is valid and what is supposed to be written. I don't agree with what's written. We've cleared that up. I'm telling you, he doesn't belong here. Secondly, these things can also be arranged by some sublegal act that regulates technique, technology, the administrative part of the job, which is entered, where it is entered, and how it is entered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24294	Thank you. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24295	Article 12 concerns mandatory provisions which must contain a mortgage agreement. This is what the mortgage agreement must include, given that it is a strictly formal contract and that the law should regulate and specify exactly what the mortgage contract contains. With this amendment intervention, we wanted to improve Article 12 by stressing that, in addition to those basic data, biographical data on creditors, debtors, unconditional statements by the owner to agree to the trustee to enter a mortgage or clause intabulands, precise data on demand, mortgage immovableity data, we wanted to fix, because we believe that the mortgage agreement must differ from a one-sided mortgage. A mortgage can be built in two ways. The debtor to the trustee may be the owner of the immovable property, and a situation may occur where the debtor is one person, and the owner of the property on which the mortgage is held by another person. The mortgage agreement should regulate this situation, right where the debtor matches the mortgage owner. A one-sided mortgage should be a situation where one person is debtor and the other person owns mortgaged immovableity. That is why we intervened to improve the text of Article 12. In Article 12(4), it is not possible to avoid finding that the mortgage refers to immovableities, as point 4 says, information on mortgaged immovableity, i.e. immovable property, including evidence of ownership, must be contained in the mortgage contract, and in addition to the other rights laid down in Article 3 of this Act. Following the entire concept of the SRS and the amendments to the SRS, we remain consistent that the mortgage can only be based on real estates, not on rights and some future immovableities. This is a principled amendment, and we can't, if we've already attacked Article 3 where we're listed immovableities, so we've attacked Article 3, and then we've had to intervene in amendment to Article 12 and ask that this second part of the sentence be deleted, these remaining rights and future immovableities, objects that are in construction can't be the subject of a mortgage contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24296	Anyone else? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts. At the title of chapter 3 above Article 15, MP Jovan Palalic submitted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is the amendment accepted? I don't know who wrote it. I'm reading. If you're done with each other, now let me find out if that amendment is accepted. You accept the amendment. Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. And that amendment is accepted. Thank you for your support, Mr. Krassic. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 15th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You don't accept the amendment. Here's a word from MP Petar Jojic. I'm sorry about that joke earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24297	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS has a certain position on this bill, especially when it comes to this Article 15, which we have proposed in our amendment to delete in paragraph 1. Why? The SRS considers that the mortgage should monitor the legal fate of the immovableity, not the one currently using the immovableity, whether it is the tenant and any other direct holder holding the immovable thing on any legal basis. That's the SRS' position. We will not write laws and accept opinions that put you at risk and at risk any side, or one or the other. The SRS considers it necessary to provide legal certainty and trustee, while at the same time giving the debtor the right to use his rights in terms of availability and contractual relations, i.e. entering a legal relationship based on a mortgage.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24298	Mr. Jojic, I'm sorry to interrupt, you're very convincing, the minister has just accepted the amendment. I'm sorry, I got it all wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24299	It's not my intention to influence anyone to accept the amendment, it's my intention to explain. First of all, I'm a professional lawyer and I can freely interpret the provisions of the bill, where there are certain gaps and where there are shortcomings in the bill. We believe that point 4 should be deleted. (Milan Parivodić, from the post: He convinced me, I accept the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24300	You can see you're convincing, Mr. Jojic. My predictive power. We'll see with the law, we'll open up an event predictive agency, right? The minister has accepted the amendment. I'll give you an hour's break. We stopped by the title above article 16. We'll continue at ten to three, after the break. [[After break – 14.50.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our afternoon work after the break. The title above Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment, with a legal and technical order to be implemented by the Legislative Committee for the purpose of the previously adopted amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24302	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, however many of you are in this room, MP Sreto Peric has submitted an amendment to Article 16 in which he requests that point 4 be deleted. To make it clear to you and the citizens who are following this to read this article 16. "The owner also has the right to (1) hold the subject of the mortgage, 2) use the subject of the mortgage according to the usual purpose, 3) collect the natural or civil fruits the subject of the mortgage is giving, 4) issue the subject of the mortgage and conclude the contracts which are subject to the... " (Milan Parivodić, from the post: I accept the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24303	The minister has accepted this amendment. I thank you, Mr. Markovic, for the persuasion of the presentation of the amendment. The title above Article 17 was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, and the minister accepts this amendment. Member of the 17th Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24304	I think the minister will accept this amendment too, so I'm going to say something else before the minister looks at the amendment. When Zoran Krasic spoke earlier that no court would register a mortgage in accordance with Article 11. The proposal of this law, I will remind you that at the time we spoke in the principle debate that I was just talking about this speaker at the moment when the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero, entered the hall, and when she heard what was said, when I said - ask the President of the Supreme Court if such a book was possible without the permission, or when the recording of a mortgage on an unrecorded object, she showed with her head that it was not impossible, and this speaks in favour of what Mr Krasic said would be major problems in applying this law in practice, or when it comes to being applied by the courts. In order to truly obtain the conditions for obtaining these housing loans and recording mortgages, it is necessary to take into account the booking of built immovableities built with building permit. Since I am primarily a national MP, I will give you the message of a citizen who received from the Second Municipal Court in Belgrade a solution to refuse the motion to register immovableity. Proposer's proposal is rejected for the purpose of registering ownership rights on the property of two-room apartment number 2 of 49 squares. The man was looking for a one-room apartment number two, area 38 squares. So, completely confused terms. Among other things, it is said, in a particular case, necessary to register the right of ownership at the apartment in question for the purpose of proposings to obtain conditions in the booklet of the residential building and the seller of the Belgrade-based Belgrade power plant from Belgrade. It is necessary for the applicant, in addition to the repeated proposal for the registration of the requested right, to provide the court with documents on the basis of which the seller has acquired the right to use at the place in question. Why did I read this? To draw attention to how some courts don't know or don't want to do this job, they oblige a citizen who wants to book his apartment, to provide evidence that he simply can't deliver, or have the opportunity to get to that contract. The question is whether such a contract exists and there are many such objections. This is more of a principled explanation which makes us think that this is not a good law, and which is why we think that this law should have been done in a different way, as well as in order to make it known to the Serbian public, and also to you ministers, why not, that we Serbian radicals really think that this country should not only talk but also work, or that it should not just come out and boast that every time there are new conditions for taking favourable loans. That's just not true. Nor are loans favourable, nor can they be taken as much as the citizens would like, even though they are unfavourable. Most importantly, this law will not allow that condition to be fixed. Now specifically on the amendment to Article 17. Part three speaks of rights and obligations and in the head of the first is about the rights and obligations of the owner of the immovable property. These are the owners who write a mortgage on their immovable property to raise a certain loan. Article 17(1) of your proposal states: "The owner must not physically change the subject of the mortgage (rebuilding, upgrade, demolition, merger, deob and other) without the written consent of the trustee, which the trustee will not refuse to issue without justifiable reason". Why do we think this solution isn't good? First, why would we limit the immovable property owner to doing some literally internal work in his apartment, in his house, in his immovableity. So there's a mortgage in and it's not disputed. According to what you've written, a man can't put his big living room in two small rooms if he doesn't have the trustee's consent to do so, and he doesn't diminish the value of his immovableity on which he wrote the mortgage. That's what you're saying-- consent that the trustee won't refuse to betray for no good reason. This is too general, it's imprecise. At any time, the trustee may say that he has a valid reason to forbid someone from making a pantry at the end of the hall. If the law isn't exactly restricted, it can. It's just very complicated. It is much simpler, more concrete and more lifelike, ultimately and more logically, what I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group in the amendment. So, "The owner must not physically change the subject of the mortgage -- we agree here, again I say, in brackets -- (degradation, upgrade, collapse, merger, deob and others) -- the same way you wrote it, it must not do -- in a way that would reduce the value of immovableity, which informs the trustee. "It is fully in line with Article 17 that you otherwise suggested. We have not touched the other views of this member. Let me try, then, one more time to explain to you what the substance of the amendment is. The owner of the mortgage facility, to resimplify, can re-access his large living room to two rooms, with the obligation to inform the trustee about it and not to reduce the value of that facility on which the mortgage and immovableity is entered. What does that mean? If the owner of the immovable property informs the bank, he says - gentlemen, I intend to rebuild the corridor, it's eight meters long and I want to make a spy at the end of the hall; it does, and it certainly does not reduce the value of the facility, on the contrary. So, if he's required, as I suggested by the amendment, to inform the trustee, or the bank, then that bank can send its own commission to come to the scene, to see that it's only about the fact that at the end of the corridor the value of that facility is not reduced. Here, we haven't made a man any complications in the sense that he needs some additional consent, etc. On the other hand, the value of immovableity is not reduced at all, it can even be increased. That's why we think this amendment is a more specific solution. If you look at Article 17, where you're mostly talking about not being able to reduce the value of immovableity, which we certainly accept, because that's the only way it can and must be. This attitude one is not precise enough. If you accepted the amendment to this Article 1 position, it would then be a full and clear member, who would not make life worse for the debtor or the trustee in any way that he was thinking that maybe the value of the immovableity would be reduced. So tomorrow, if God doesn't, he's gonna have to make that mortgage, he's gonna have some problems with the value of immovableity. I'm really asking you to read the whole article. You will see that our amendment is fully in line with what is provided for in Article 17, that you have no reason not to accept it. On the contrary, the amendment only simplifies what you have imagined. So that's right, that's right, we're not going to let it reduce the value of immovableity. It's pointless, I'm telling you again, to find someone who owns some immovable property on which the mortgage is placed, imagine - for every banal thing, for painting, I've gone a little too far - for painting no, but the deobo, merger, demolition, etc., it's just not logical, it's not natural, and it's not normal for the owner to be so attached to the trustee that he has to, Malten, ask him if he can paint the apartment. Minister, here's another call for both you and your colleagues who will vote for this bill, accept this amendment, to make this text as much better as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24305	Thank you very much, Mrs. Radeta. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) (Milan Parivodić, from the place: I would accept only one part, if that is legally possible. I'd like to delete attitude 6 because it's consistent with erasure of point 4. ) To clarify to viewers, an expert debate is currently being held at the level of MPs who have proposed the amendment and the minister on the possibility of accepting part of the amendment and whether such a thing is possible. In the meantime, discuss, until the end of the debate, it is possible to define it. Since you're not wearing microphones, the viewers can't hear, and we're moving on. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic. Based on consultation with the professional service, part of the amendment cannot be accepted, Mr. Minister. So, it's only possible, Mrs. Radeta, if you agree with this context presented by the minister, to submit an amendment? The Belief of Radet, from the place: I disagree. ) Simply, then the amendment is not accepted. Thank you, therefore, for the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic to Article 18, which the Legislative Committee said was legally possible, Mr Markovic reported. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24306	The objective of this amendment is to make this member of the law clearer. National MP Milovan Radovanovic asked that in Article 18, paragraph 2, point 2) after the word "skill" erase the point and replace it with another one, adding the words "at the request of the trustees". (Milan Parivodić, from the place: I accept. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24307	Thank you, the amendment has been accepted. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word. Here you go, Mr. Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24308	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 20. Proposal for a mortgage law, by proposing to be a member of the 20th. The bill is deleted. The proposed member shall be governed by the reduction in the claim provided by the mortgage on the basis of a contract between the trustee and the person whose claim is granted, even if it is stated that the contract is concluded in written form, of course, which is certified in court. However, the proposed solution is completely unnecessary, as it is regulated by the members of the Bond Relations Act, Article 436-445. The law, which regulates the system, is a member of the 20th. The proposal for this law is completely excessive and should be deleted. I urge you to adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24309	Thank you, Mr. Koprivica. People's MP Vojislav Milajic, according to the same amendment, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24310	In the Third Chapter, the transfer of individual rights and obligations, there are three members, 20, 21 and 22, so, by explaining the amendment to Article 20, I would include these two members and I would no longer appear by word, since all three amendments are related. It is article 20, which provides for a reduction in the claim, in Article 21 of the archbishop and Article 22 of the debt. The point is that Article 20 provides for a reduction of the claim, where the claim is made with the transfer of the mortgage, as an accessory, side-right, or the claim may be granted, but without the transfer of the mortgage. That's two different situations now. If this first situation, where it's just being transferred through a claim, without a mortgage transfer, it's a clean cell, a clean bond-law relationship, has nothing to do with this law. If this second situation, and this second situation arises from Article 2, where it says that the mortgage transfer contract, which is concluded separately from the claim rate, does not produce a legal fact, which means that this member binds both the claim and the mortgage as an accesory, means a secondary right, then it's an archdiocese, then it's the next member - Article 21. There can't be an indication of claims and super-hypothecies as two separate legal institutes. It can exist separately, it can exist as a cesium or as a super-hypothecary, but it can't be both. I don't know how it can be a transfer of claims without a mortgage transfer without it being a super-hypothecology. I don't know what that is. In Article 21, already in the next article, it is an over-hypothecary institute, where it is said that a mortgage-provided claim can be pawned on the basis of a contract between a mortgage trustee and a super-hypothecary trustee, and now the elements of that contract are listed, so we intervened there, we added point 5), where we only specified that the mortgage as an accesory, secondary law can only be transferred together with the request. This is the essence of the super-hypothecary and we added point 5 there) to specify those mandatory elements of the contract that must contain the super-hypothec. Exactly, the Law on Liabilities, in Articles 436 to 445, really regulates the Institute of Cession. It's not even asking for the consent of the debtors, but it's a pure relationship between the trustee and the future trustee. One trustee conveys his claim to the future trustee. The trustee is only obliged to inform the debtor that he is now in the position of the previous trustee. If there's no mortgage transfer, then it's a cessium, and if there's a mortgage transfer, then it's a mortgage. As for Article 22, taking over debt, it's a clean bond-law relationship. It just doesn't say that it can stand in this law. The Law on Liabilities of Article 446 to Article 450 regulates the institute, and it stipulates that if a debtor transfers his debt he must have prior consent of the trustee, because the trustee by nature of the matter wants to know who his debtor is and whether the debtor is insolvent and whether he can fulfil his obligations, and it is normal to seek the consent of the trustee. The contract sets out two elements, two points having to talk about the mandatory elements that the contract must contain, and it says - the contract referred to in Article 1 shall be concluded when the subject of the mortgage is estranged, in the form of a specific contract or in the form of a provision. The mortgage institute itself allows alienation. It allows alienating the immobility of the other person without the consent of the mortgage trustee. A mortgage trustee in the end line doesn't care who owns it, he ties his rights to the thing. Is the owner of Peru, Mike, Zika, absolutely irrelevant. And there are no restrictions on the transfer of ownership rights to another person. It's absolutely not about the mortgage. The mortgage remains on the real estate, regardless of who owns the property, and whoever buys that immovable property is obliged to keep an eye on whether or not this immovable property is loaded with a mortgage. If he agrees to buy that mortgage property, that's his problem. Here, by taking over the debt, the mortgage institute is literally derivated, because the debtor has to ask the trustee whether he can alienate the property or not. At the mortgage institute, it is quite legal for the owner to sell his immovableity even though he was estranged by a mortgage. Nothing a mortgage truster loses by turning the immovableity into the hands of another owner. The mortgage remains listed in some public books, whether they are land, whether they will be entered in the central register which will be formed or in the cadastre anyway, he does not lose his right, he has his right to be provided, so that I think this debt takeover is a clean bonding legal relationship and absolutely has nothing to do with either mortgage or real-legal relations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24311	Does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Minister. As regards three amendments, Articles 20, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24312	Thank you, Mr. President. Now let me explain what this is about. The adjustment of the claim is a classical cell under the Law on Liabilities. The specificity of this cell is that the claim is secured by a mortgage. It's supposed to be on the books. The new trustee, after performing the ceremony, the cessionist, should register in the land book and because of this specificity, we have entered this article in the 20th. What represents the difference between Article 20, where the request system provided with a mortgage and a super-hypothecary is said in the following. The point of the C.E.S. is to transfer the claim. It's done here, the job is done, the claim has been transferred to the new trustee. At the super-hypothecary, we don't have a stint, we have a claim to make. In other words, if the trustee is not paid some debt, then this pledge will be applied to activate and he will be able to charge from the cask of that original debtor from the first claim provided by the mortgage, preferably compared to the lender. It's a hostage relationship, unlike this first one, which is the ratio of the concession to the claim. There are different institutes, and one and the other have this specificity that the claim is secured by a mortgage and that it is necessary to enter the land book and that is why we have worked it out. The fact is that the archdiocese was very badly written in the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Law and precisely because I had to discuss this concept I entered. He says, "What's a super-hypothecary?" It's classic -- mortgage over mortgage, it's totally wrong. There can't be a mortgage on the mortgage. The mortgage-provided demand can be pawned. There are claims secured by a mortgage, and the jargon is said to be a mortgage mortgage, which is actually legalally completely incorrect. That's why I refuse these amendments. As far as taking over the debt, we again have the effect of enrolling in land books, and that is the only specificity in relation to the general regime with which I fully agree that it is regulated in the Law on Liaison.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24313	National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 21st amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Now he's just explained it. Do you need more? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24314	Col. Milajic spoke about all three of these amendments, but here I may have more power to convince the minister that the amendment to Article 22 is legally justified and that it should be accepted. Article 22 speaks of taking over the debt. In this article in the Bill's proposal, I will read for public reasons, because I assume that people who deal with legal profession and science, so: "A debt according to a mortgage trustee can be transferred by a debt contract provided by a mortgage between the owner and the lender of a mortgage, i.e. by a contract between the owner, the acquirer of a mortgage and debtor, if the owner is not a mortgage debtor." You further say in paragraph 2: "The contract referred to in Article 1: (1) shall be concluded when the subject of the mortgage is estranged in the form of a specific contract or in the form of a provision, or part of a contract on the alienation of the subject matter; 2) it shall produce legal facts if the trustee gives his consent in writing. "Now Minister, we have the Law on Bond Relations. Here, I brought it here. And the Liabilities Act, from Articles 446 to 450, speaks of taking over debt. So we have a debt takeover contract, so we have an article 447, a case where the debt is secured by a mortgage. And then the member says, when a mortgage is estranged, agreed between the supplier and the alienator that the supplier will take over the debt according to the mortgage trustee, the mortgage trustee is believed to have given consent to the debt takeover contract if he is not rejected in writing by the alienator within three months of receiving the call. In paragraph 2, a written call to the trustee shall draw attention to this consequence, otherwise it will be deemed not to be sent. We further have a change of debtors, secondary rights, objection, debt accession agreement, debt access in case of receiving some property benefit, takeover, fulfillment, all the way to Article 453, not to go on debt accession. This is the part that you provided for in Article 22, and this is how it's regulated by the Law on Liabilities. We were in the principle debate distracting you, and today it has been heard here several times from the MPs of the SRS, that you had to sort of bring this law into line. Although it does not make sense that the Law on Liabilities is aligned with another law, it should be the other way around and it would be normal for it to be the other way around, especially if we have the Law on Liabilities that have long been in force and if there are any objections to this law, not only in this part, but, of course, the Government could have come to the National Assembly with a proposal to amend or supplement this law and then we could talk about it there. I remind you that we are in a principle debate when we say that this mortgage bill of yours is neither revolutionary nor epochal, nor do I know how you want it all to be reformed. The fact is, we haven't had mortgage laws in our legal system so far, but that doesn't mean the mortgages weren't signed, that doesn't mean there wasn't any debt taking, that there was no transfer. Let me remind you, I don't know how many tens of thousands of apartments or maybe hundreds of thousands of apartments are in ransom, or bought in accordance with the Housing Act, and before, the House Relations Act. A large number of these apartments were changed by the owner, bought for up to 40 years, and such apartments were listed as a burden, i.e. as a mortgage on the apartment registered that debt to that previous holder of the right to use, so it was called, it was enterprises, institutions that assigned apartments to use, and then according to the Housing Law today, the House Act, and today it is possible, these apartments were sold, purchased, and these apartments were also further sold. We've got another problem. Where we had a written solution to the problem, a registered building, then someone from the purchase of an apartment in a registered building could register their property rights on the apartment, so with that mortgage, with that debt from the ransom over the next 40 years. It's beautifully listed in the cargo manifest. Such an apartment with a mortgage of that kind or of any other kind was possible to sell and many such apartments were sold in Serbia. The new owner who bought the apartment accepted or continued this payment in the next 40 years, or made a deal with that buyer and beat the debt to a sale price. It's already a matter of this particular contract, but I'm telling you, I'm actually paying attention that this isn't any newspaper, that it's in accordance with the Bond Relations Act and so far it's possible to solve and that it's been solved. And what counterpart Milajic said earlier, is not the subject of the mortgage Marko Markovic as the owner of the property, but is the subject of the mortgage, which is the very property on which the mortgage is registered. Of course, the mortgage facility not only can be sold, it can be bowed down, it can be inherited, it's absolutely in legal traffic of any kind of subject under mortgage, and it's all in accordance with the Law on Bond Relations. That is why this amendment to the SRS parliamentary group, with the proposal to delete Article 22, remains to be regulated further by the provisions of the Law on Liabilities, and if you think that law is not good, we have no objection, and we have repeatedly repeated this today, to discuss in amendments and additions to that law. Here is the essence, what Milajic also said is that the mortgage is an accesory right, i.e. a secondary right and that it can only be transferred along with the claim. You didn't invent hot water here. So our proposal is also an invitation to accept the amendment to apply the Law on Bond Relations, which is largely in practice, which has already been insulted in all courts, with which no judge in Serbia will have problems, because everyone has enough practice in applying this law and we do not need a newspaper just for the sake of the newspaper. We don't need anything to boast that we've now invented a mortgage law and imagine now, Serbian citizens, you can put a mortgage on your apartments. We Serbian radicals tell you, our dear citizens of Serbia, this law does not allow it, you have been able to type in all kinds so far, every type of mortgage on the apartments that are registered, on unregistered apartments or you can neither, because no court nor any normal and professional judge will accept it. We therefore also tell the citizens of Serbia that this is also one of the colourful lies of this government. You know, that sounds very nice, people are literally burdened by this mortgage law. Citizens are meeting us, asking us, calling on the phone, asking what it means, in which way I will be able to write a mortgage on one or another object, and the bottom line is that, again, in the morning, I told you to make a nice deal with our colleague, your colleague Mr. Stojkovic, to come up with a strategy on how to get justice, at least in this part of the department of books courts, land-booked departments of municipal courts, that there are both staffed and technically and in every sense these courts support themselves in such a way that they can carry out more quickly what a colleague of Christin said in catastratic operatives, mostly in Serbia, quite well done. Because it was a much easier job, it was much easier to fly Serbia out of a helicopter, film the situation and transfer it to a catastrian opera, it's a much easier job than working in a land book, but it's a job that precedes the book business. And that I'm not developing any further theory, that we're not continuing as we started to professionally convince ourselves this morning, although I believe the minister accepts what I'm saying, at least as far as mortgages and enrollment rights are concerned in land books and the necessity of strengthening land and book departments in every way. This is what we do and when we register this number of immovableities in Serbia, I will repeat about 60 per cent of the official number of unlisted immovableities in Serbia, and with the building permit built, some may not have used permission, which is a mere formality, if something is done with the building permit, a useful permit can be obtained many years later. It is enough to use the state of the project on the basis of which a building permit was issued with a situation on the ground. It's either authorized persons or state craftsmen, and based on the findings and opinions of such an institution, a useful permit is issued where it's not there and then the job of the book ends. The point is the book, and then this mortgage law is even unnecessary, but we don't mind essentially being brought in, but it has to be different. This law cannot be a parallel legal system in Serbia. What you've been through today, Minister, has said several times that we're representing some conservative attitudes, actually, I didn't realize exactly what it means to you, but if it's something good, I don't know why it would change something that doesn't have a foothold in parallel law, at least not in continental. You do, I'm sure, you know. It is not good to experiment, especially to experiment where we have really good practice, good regulations, we just have to do a little bit of what is in our, or your jurisdiction and jurisdiction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to do these jobs more effectively. That's the only problem, and by solving that problem, we'll solve this one. Then another kind of problem is what contracts will be concluded with business banks and what conditions will be given by business banks and, as you call them, favourable loans, and how favourable are Serbian citizens. So neither will this law reduce interest on these housing loans, nor will anyone who has not been able to obtain a housing loan until today be able to obtain it when this law is passed. That's the truth about this bill. And another call, Minister, withdraw this bill, make it better, bring it in line with the existing positive regulations in Serbia, and then let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24315	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Any other MPs? No, I don't. Member of the 25th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another amendment that Mr. Secretary could accept calm souls. National MP Darko Glisic has tabled an amendment to Article 25, where he requests that item 1 point 3 be deleted. Article 25 reads: "A mortgage trustee may require that he or she obtains his or her due demand to satisfy: 1) first of all from the value of the mortgaged immovableity and then from the other assets of the debtor; 2) at the same time from the value of the mortgaged immovableity and from the debtor's assets; or 3) first of all from the debtor's property and then from the value of the mortgaged immovableity. "Here, a mortgage debtor is brought into an uninvited and often unexplainable position and will depend solely on how many bankers, those who gave credit and took a mortgage, good souls, and usually not, so before we have an extremely large number of foreign banks, who offer mortgage loans and who will peel off our skin the next day. What can happen in particular. You have a three-bedroom apartment where you live with your family. Your son gets married, you take credit and you buy, say, a one-bedroom apartment, you put a mortgage on that one-room apartment, and one minute you're no longer in a position to monitor inflation, although Dinkic has promised to be nine percent, it will be three times nine percent. You are unable to track the loan and pay off the payments in continuity, and you are in a situation where the mortgage is charged to you by an object that is mortgaged. If there is a point 3 left), the bank will be able, calm souls, in accordance with this law to sell you the apartment where you live and to make peace from there. First from the debtor's property, then from the value of the mortgaged immovableity, and from that apartment where the whole family lives, and here you couldn't even build this apartment and suddenly find yourself on the street. I therefore believe, Minister, that by this amendment, if point 3 is deleted, that it does not go first from the property of the debtor, and only then mortgaged values, but that it goes first from the value that is mortgaged, so if it fails to settle, then it remains some small amount, a smaller amount, where it can be settled from some other property, by selling cars, this, that. It remains an apartment like an estate where the family will be able to live normally. Mr. Minister, when you accepted these two amendments, you could accept this third too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24317	Thank you. Mr. Milajic first reported on the same amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24318	This is about the choice of calming down. It is given the opportunity to choose in which way it will settle its due claim, so three situations are listed, that the first settlement from the value of the mortgaged immovableity, and then from the other assets of the debtors. The situation where he didn't know in advance whether the value of immovableity would cover the main debt, interest and settlement costs, so it turned out, when he sold the immovable property, that it wasn't enough, then the debtor corresponded to the entire assets for his liabilities and then went into realisation through another asset of the debtor. The second situation is the simultaneous sale of mortgaged immovableity and debtor's assets, a situation when he already knew in advance that the mortgage would not be enough to cover the main debt, interest and costs. He agreed to partially cover his mortgage claims, and the other part will settle from other debtors' assets. So he consciously entered into that contractual relationship and accepted that possibility. These two options are real, exist and are perfectly legal. The third option is to first settle from the debtor's assets, and then from the mortgaged immovableity. It's a very strange situation, the debtor puts exactly that immovableity, not someone else, but puts that very immovableity at the mortgage to ensure that he guarantees the payment of some debt he has to the trustee. He may have had some other immovableity, but he didn't want another immovableity to put in, he wanted to put it there. The trustee when he entered into a trust-debt relationship with the debtor, he agreed to that very immovableity, not someone else, but right there. The mortgage exists to individualise the immovableity that will guarantee a future claim and be a guarantee that the debt will be paid, and if not, there will be a settlement. If we accepted this solution, then we would leave a broad possibility for the creditors to simply cross over the mortgage and not activate the mortgage institute, but to go directly to settlement from the rest of the debtor's assets. In doing so, the debtor would have to put up with it. Why would the debtor suffer this, when he had already mortgaged his immovableity and had already opted for this particular immovableity, not any? This derogates the institution of mortgages, but the mortgage is just designed and, by its capacity, is individual, related to certain immovableity, not all immovableities. The debtor has agreed to be exactly that immovableity. I don't know why he's leaving the trustee with this possibility that he'll go first on a settlement from other assets, and only at the end of the mortgage. Then I don't know why there's a mortgage, there's no point in having a mortgage, if it comes from some other property. There's a mortgage, and there's a reason that if the debtor gets all the other assets alienated, the mortgage stays on this property as well. So, if you absolutely alienate all the property, the mortgage remains again, because it's being transferred to the new owner. Then a mortgage trustee can't settle down from this other asset that's not mortgaged. That property that wasn't mortgaged, it changed the owner, went to other hands, but a mortgage trustee can't be reconciled from that property. I think it's strictly tied to each other, and I don't understand why this would give the right mortgage trust that he can alternatively choose whether to settle down from mortgaged immovableity or from other debtors' assets. I think he's making the debtor uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24319	Here you are, People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24320	Legally, what my colleague Milajic said is quite enough to explain, and that means if a mortgage trustee is first calmed down from the debtor's assets, then only then from the value of the mortgaged immovableity, then the mortgage loses its meaning. I don't know what the point of enrolling in a certain immovableity is. Then you could say, "I'm putting a mortgage on everything I have and what I might have." I called about something else. I volunteered because the 25th is a very dangerous, perhaps the most dangerous member of this law. As a national MP, I feel the need to address the public of Serbia and to make sure everyone who wants to write a mortgage, to raise a housing loan over a mortgage, to think carefully and to hire a lawyer to explain to them what Article 25 means. The proposal for this law and what fate awaits them in the application of point 3) of Article 1 of this Law. I have to read it. Article 25 speaks of the choice of settlement and says that the mortgage trustee may request, and the mortgage trustee is, for the sake of public and simplified language, the bank, that its maturity settles first from the value of the mortgaged immovableity, it is the house or apartment on which the mortgage was entered, and then from the other assets of the debtor, if the borrower has more assets. The second point says that at the same time it can come from the value of both assets, which is questionable, but it can survive. Now we have point 3, which is the sword behind anyone who takes credit under these conditions, under this law. He says a mortgage trustee can demand, meaning that he will demand, which would not, that his claim be settled first from the debtor's assets and then from the value of the mortgaged immovableity. I have to explain to the public again on one simple case, I was saying that and when we talked about the law in principle, Mr. Moma Markovic explained something similar, but now I'm going to try to be as precise as possible. So our citizen has one big family house, arranged, arranged, and has one little garage. He wants to raise a loan, he has three kids, he wants to buy a third child another garage, and he's putting a mortgage on that little garage he's betraying, that moment he doesn't need, no matter, his property, we don't get into it. What's going on? If it comes to the fact that the mortgage trustee has come to terms with his claim, what will he do? He's not gonna deal with selling that garage, so he's gonna get the money he needs to get that loan back. He's going to auction that big house of our citizen, and now you're going to hear how he's going to bring it down to a minimum, and that citizen of ours from that big house is barely gonna be able to repay that loan that he's worth the mortgage on. It's related to the article. 35th and 36th of this law, which speaks of the sale of immovable property. Article 35 states that the immovableity is sold twice. For the first time, it goes to auction sales, with an initial price of at least 75% of the estimated value, so if that auction sale fails, then it goes to another auction sale where at least 60% of that estimated value of immovable property is determined. In the end, if the auction fails, it is sold by direct contract. You can only imagine what it can mean in practice, Article 25, along with Article 25. 35th and 36th. We've come to the conclusion that instead of the garrisonier, the bank is going to sell to this man of ours that big apartment building of his. You know how auctions are being set up, you know how complete the economy is and how the factories in Serbia are sold out at auction. So, the first auction doesn't go through, the second auction doesn't go through, and then this big facility sells to its big friend for small money, as much as it's enough to settle the debt from the value of that garrisoner and possibly court costs. What did our citizen who believed Minister Parivodic and the government of Vojislav Kostunica do? He ran off, took a loan. After all these abuses, which are possible, and whenever possible, we have to count and they will happen. You know, who the snakes bit and the lizard is afraid of. I mentioned earlier, while you were in, what happened to the auctions at the company sale, what your party colleagues promised in the election campaign. That first they would review all these privatisations, the Martian promised 83 specifically, the Bubalo unspecified number etc. (President: Time. () Of course, they did not engage in the work because they knew what the result would be. So, I repeat, it is also my duty, as a member of the SRS, to warn the public of Serbia, to warn the citizens of Serbia that, in the course of the loan, they will eventually be very careful, to take a good look at Article 25 of point 3 and to take a look at article on the way. In 35th and 36th, they do not want to lose 900,000 euros in loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24321	Thank you, she's a careful mother of wisdom. The 27th Amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government does not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24322	This is about a later contract. The subsequent contract is a special contract between the mortgage trustee and the owner for the maturity of the claim, and there is now a possibility that should not be left to the mortgage trustee, which is the possibility of obtaining property rights on mortgaged immovableity. And that is where point 1) says that a partial or complete transfer of property rights can lead to the fulfillment of the debt. There is a great danger of seemingly or simulated contracts, which are regulated by the Bond Relations Act, and green contracts. So they can be hidden behind this possibility that a mortgage trustee can gain property rights to immovable property. He needs to be absolutely excluded from this possibility. I think there are four other members who allow that possibility, one way to stop the mortgage when the mortgage trustee becomes the owner of the mortgage in Article 49, then the auction sale leaves the possibility for the trustee to make the offer, which should not be allowed. In Article 37, if a mortgage trustee settles by obtaining property rights on mortgaged immovableity, the claim shall be deemed to be settled at the time of acquisition of property rights. These are all possibilities for abuse and pressure, especially in green contracts, where someone's difficult economic situation or the ease of someone's, where behind these green contracts a mortgage trustee can come at a very high value of immobility. In particular, greeners can lend loans at very high interest rates and enroll in the mortgage register the principal and interest aggregated as the principal and, in the event of default of that debt, the mortgage trustee becomes the owner of that property half the price or even less. But not to be seen from the very mortgage and the legal work, because there is this very institution of a subsequent contract, where the mortgage trustee and the owner of the estate can conclude an ex post contract, where the mortgage trustee would become the owner of that immovableity in order to settle his obligation to the trustee. There is a large space for abuses and the conclusion of apparent contracts, as well as green contracts, where this would then be hard to prove in court and where the debtor would first of all be damaged and suffer adverse consequences. I think it's necessary to rule out the possibility of a mortgage trustee to become the owner of that immovable property, because there's no reason why he would become the owner of the immovable property. The debt-confidential relationship exists between the trustee and the debtor and the trustee's superior interest is to come to its claim, meaning it comes to money. Who's going to buy that immovableity, some face, pera, zika, is absolutely irrelevant to the trustee. It's important for him to settle his claim. If it's important to him to get to the motion, then it's a very strange motive. Then there's something else to hide, and then it's not a claim, it's not a debt-confidential relationship, it's another relationship between the trustee and the debtor. It is absolutely necessary to eliminate the possibility that the trustee may become the owner of that immovableity. In Article 13, it's kind of a hint. I can't say that it's decidently suggested, these are the provisions of a mortgage contract void, so in paragraph 1, point 2) it's said that if the immovableity at an undefined or predetermined price passes into the property of a trustee or a third party, such a provision will be void, it will not produce legal facts. This is kind of suggested, I can't say that it directly prohibits and prevents it, but I think that the provision is good and that it needs to be respected, may even be widely interpreted and not allow at any cost for a mortgage trustee to acquire property rights, because it will be a great opportunity for green jobs and seemingly contracts and the possibility of many abuses in legal traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24323	The word has Minister Parivodić, and we will then move on to Article 31.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24324	Now I'm going to explain why I don't think I can accept the amendment. In mortgage law, it is considered that such a clause at the time when the mortgage agreement is concluded actually brings the debtor into a green situation, in which the trustee will give him the terms of the loan by means of a lex commission, and that because he is then in need, before he gets the money on loan, there is one systemic risk of greening. That danger stops the moment he gets the money. He's no longer in need, he's got the money, and from that moment on, the lex commission shouldn't be nothing, there's no reason for this property takeover clause to be banned. This is about the situation that's taking place in the next case. First of all, as you said very precisely, the bank doesn't think it has real estate property, it's not her job. Her job is to have money. Therefore, the bank will never use this clause unless it is in extreme need. The situation of extreme urgency is that neither auction sales nor direct sales have succeeded on several occasions, that this has no alternative property from which the debtor can be charged, and they are now in front of the wall. It's a rule of some immovableity somewhere in the interior, where there are few people, no one is interested in buying immovableity and ultimately in the force of the bank god, in order to solve this issue, in fact, with the consent of the debtor becomes the owner of that immovableity. If the contract is aimed at greening, or abuse of a difficult position on the other hand, it is subject to the provisions of the law, the Institute of the Green Treaty of the Law on Bond Relations under the general rules. This ex post contract is subject to normal application of the green contract, laesio enormis, due to excessive damage, etc. The apparent contract also, simulated, dissembling, all these institutes are being applied, this is one normal civil-legal contract, which the bank enters into the extortion, to sort of resolve the issue and become the owner of God by force. I hope I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24325	Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Minister accepts the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Mitrovica. The Minister does not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24326	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS, and on the basis of Article 145. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have tabled an amendment to the Mortgage Law on Article 34. Article 34 reads: "If the debtor does not pay off the debt until the date of eligibility of the decision to record the mortgage sale, and from the date of issue of that solution is 30 days, the trustee may access the sale of mortgaged immovableity by auction or direct contract". The amendment suggested that after the word "contract" we delete the point without adding a comma and adding the words "unless auction sales failed". Paragraph 2 of the said Article 34 reads: "The choice of one way of selling does not exclude the possibility of applying another way of selling if the real estate remains unsold." The amendment proposed that Article 2 be deleted, and Article 3, meaning, "Before joining the sale, the trustee is obliged to establish the orientation market value of the immovableity by hiring an authorised court expert", becoming Article 2. In an explanation, we have stated that it is necessary to determine the order of sales in order to avoid possible abuse of creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24327	Thank you, Mr. Mitrovica. Here you go, Mr. Markovic, according to the same amendment. People's MP Momir Markovic, today's most convincing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24328	Minister, do you accept the amendment or should I explain it? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member of the law is also one of the most dangerous members. Ms. Verica Radeta mentioned one of these dangerous members, dangerous to the mortgage debtor, for she says this way: "If the debtor does not pay off the debt until the day of lawfulness of the mortgage sale record, and from the date of issue of that solution, the trustee may access the sale of mortgage immovableity through auction or direct contract." This means that the mortgage trustee will have the right to choose -- either an auction or a direct contract, and this position of this member is contrary to Articles 36 and 37. The section that MP Mitrovica asked to be deleted is item 2 which says, "The choice of one way of selling does not exclude the possibility of applying another way of selling if the immovableity remains unsold." We don't have another order. Well, first of all, with a direct contract, so his best man didn't have enough money to buy that house, that immovableity, and then he's going to auction. In Articles 36 and 37, he says, first auction, second auction, then a direct contract. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are auctions, remember all the transparent economic transformations, where sugar candies have been bought for three euros, remember all those commissions that have been taking, however, are no longer in this assembly, but they are still hanging around here, some criminal proceedings against them have been initiated. In doing so, I mean Janjusevic, Kolesara, that gang that rolled from the Bulldozer Revolution until 2003. I mean Mickey Kostic. Exhaust a man 10 euros for sugars. You'll have to sell half the city, sell the whole street at such auctions to charge for a one-bedroom mortgage. The auctions were set, the creature, until the radicals came, and after that, there will be no more. That is why I propose that the Minister accept this amendment, that this member be applicable and be of benefit to both the trustee and the debtor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24329	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister doesn't accept. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 35 on behalf of the SRS. It seems to me that the proposer of this law, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was thinking in this direction that the bank, as they say, needs money, it works with money, it does not need property, or the subject of mortgage. However, given the experience and everything that has happened in our premises, especially if the subject of a mortgage is some rather exclusive business space, why should the bank, as a trustee in this case, not be interested? Article 35(2), which requires a change, reads: "Advertising the maintenance of auction sales must be made visible in the daily list sold in the region in which the mortgaged immovableity is located at least 45 days before the scheduled sale". Now I would like to invite the minister to explain to me what the criteria are to establish the region. Is it in some law of the Republic of Serbia to tell us which regions they are? We know about the county. There are, territorial divisions have been made, but regions? It seems to me, Mr. Minister, that this part of the law was written to you by Zorica Radovic, as she sought some regions in her proposal for the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, define what the region is and will the Government, by some special sublegal act, change some territorial division of the Republic of Serbia - administrative etc.? In my amendment, I asked for a statement on the maintenance of auction sales to be published in the daily list, at least 45 days before the scheduled sale. However, in that same article 35, it is also said, in point 8: "The trustee can make his own offer at the auction." Minister, why don't you come out here and explain to me why the bank would do that, because you're saying it won't work? Then why did you leave the legal possibility that he could do it anyway? It is in the privatisation process that the psychological effect can be seen when participants are involved in the privatisation process, meaning possible owners. So often there's an extremely strong house or a person who's interested in buying some company and saying, "I'll buy it and I'll pay it no matter how much it takes." So he's willing to do anything at any cost. You know how much he pays for it? One dollar higher than the initial price. That's how he drove out all possible competitors. The bank, which must be financially stronger than anyone else who will buy a facility, a building, a business space, etc. In this way, it is certainly possible, if he is involved in an auction, that all the following participants may be eliminated in advance. So he won't even sign up. Then it is certainly a pity for the mortgage user, or debtor, and the only benefit of it can be from the trustee. I think, however, that you should consider and accept this amendment, if not now, then at least until the day to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24331	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Milajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24332	As for the previous discussion, here at auction sale, the option is, in the last position of Article 35, that the trustee may make his own bid at the auction. In the auction, two or more interested parties appear, which will offer the most favourable price for the purchase of certain immovable property, and of which the trustee will settle the main debt, interest and costs of the procedure itself. Why would a bank, whose basic goods, which deals with the sale and purchase of money and lives on the difference in the price between buying and selling money, deal with real estate, buy some real estate? I absolutely don't see any reason why this trustee would show up for auction sales. Why would the bank make a certain offer to buy real estate? That's exactly what I've exhibited in the previous members -- that creditors should absolutely be excluded from the possibility of gaining property on mortgage-loaded mortgages, just because of those jobs that are related to green jobs, simulated contracts, damage over half of them, etc. All of this is regulated by the Law on Bond Relations, I completely agree, but we as the highest home, the legislative body that makes the laws, we have to pass laws to predict controversial situations. So we can't produce controversial situations. We are not allowed to make disputes, but vice versa. We have to warn them. If a legal norm allows for the abuse of rights, it allows for long-term disputes, you know how many civil disputes are being brought before courts. No matter what protection there is in the Law on Liabilities from Green Contracts, where one Contracting Party is damaged, because of its ease of mind, the difficult economic situation, etc., we are obliged to prevent this kind of dispute that can arise from such contracts and abuse of rights. It's not an adequate answer, you've got a court, you've got a bonding law, you have to sue, so in court you'll prove that the contract was a green contract. That's not the answer. The solution is to pre-warn it, not to bring it to court, not to put people in a position to be tried, to prove that their difficult situation was exploited, that someone manipulated them, that someone had deceived them, that someone had committed abuse, and I think that in any case, it is necessary to eliminate the possibility that the trustee might gain property rights to immovable property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24333	The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The government doesn't accept. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we insist on auctioning all the time, and Article 36 says in point 1: "The trustee, on the basis of a valid decision to record the mortgage sale, and at the end of 30 days from the day of the issue of the solution, can sell the property by direct contract, at a price approximated by the market." The amendment of MP Sreta Perić reads: "The trustee, on the basis of a judicial solution to note the mortgage sale, and at the end of 30 days from the day the auction failed, can sell the property by direct contract, at a price approximated by the market." Not since the release of the solution, but from a failed auction only 30 days after it passes, then it can go to a direct contract. We know how auctions are played, there's an ad in Glasu Podrinja, in newspapers that are sold, but in very limited numbers and in other areas, there's an ad to be advertised and said -- listen, there's an ad published, come. That is why we believe that the amendment of MP Sreta Peric should be accepted and that it should be 30 days from the day of the first auction failure, not from the day of the issue of the solution. I think this correction of this member only improves the member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24335	The faithful Radeta according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24336	The amendment to Article 36 refers to position 1 and you heard a colleague of Momir Markovic, who read both the amendment and the proposed solution. Now I'm asking you, Minister Parivodich, why are you avoiding auctions in this law in real life? It's technically there. And let's say for this article, this attitude of Article 36 is set up so that there is no auction. Did you do it consciously or was it a failure? I assume it's a failure, and that's why I think it would be a good idea for you to accept this amendment. If you say - the trustee on the basis of a fair solution to note the mortgage sale, indisputable, and at the end of 30 days from the date of issue of the solution, can sell the property by direct contract, which is the purpose of Article 35? When is it applied? When is the auction applied if you won't allow it? So, it's okay, there's a rightful solution to be made. The choice of one way of selling does not exclude the possibility of applying another way of selling if the immovableity remains unsold, but here it says - if the immovableity remains unsold. It's in Article 34. We know that in article 36, it didn't stay unsold, it wasn't even an auction sale, and we're just insisting that it can't choose, but that it has to go to auctions first, first, then second, and then go to direct contracts. You know, a direct contract, Mr. Parivodic, can make a miracle for the citizens of Serbia who come into this situation. It is clear to me that it is also an irresponsible citizen who puts himself in a situation that, in this way, it is not disputed, the trustee is at peace, but regardless of which we must not protect ourselves as in this case, in this law we protect ourselves primarily, not to say exclusively, the trustee. Of course he needs his money back. It's not a dispute, but he's got a rightful solution. Now I'm talking about this position of Article 36. He's got a rightful solution. He must respect Article 35, to go to auction sales first, from auction sales he will naturally settle his debt. If we don't make a commitment to him, he'll be fine in a direct contract, we talked about it, he'll give concrete examples of how it might happen, he'll deal with his best man or friend or brother of uncles, he won't matter, he'll arrange for a house that costs a million euros to sell for 200 thousand euros, because he'll have enough to collect his debt, he'll sell that house and the difference of 800 thousand euros will be nice enough for them to share, and our fellow citizen who ran took a loan that he didn't get back, he'll be left empty-handed. So, Minister, I don't think you really have any reason not to adopt this amendment. On the contrary, you will remove some of our suspicions, which we, as you can see, orderly inform the public of Serbia, our suspicion that you and the Serbian Government are protecting creditors in this way, and that all these foreign banks brought by Dinkic and Jelasic to Serbia. We think that Serbian citizens should be protected from these and such banks. Of course, we understand everything, and the situation where citizens are in, and the need to take loans, and to accept loans under unfavourable conditions, it's the choice of every citizen, and of course we don't want to, and we won't influence, nor can we, nor can you, influence something like that. We need to protect the citizens of Serbia who are going to pass as barefoot by applying this mortgage law anyway. Even if we let the banks in this way, by direct contract, get a quick solution in court, the solution becomes a forceful one, the house goes to the era. I repeat, what is worth a million euros is sold for 200 thousand, and you citizens dear, who have run, come after you ask Minister Parivodic what would happen to your property, he will not have an answer, or he will say it is in the law, but he will not remember that the radicals warned that it should not remain in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24337	It is the same definition in the dictionary and it says: "As long as turkeys are a being and a fabric, while sheep are being cut and cut," so that citizens have to be responsible and it is very important that all this warning is that citizens must be responsible for themselves and others. Anybody else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Jovan Palalic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 36a be added after article 36a. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24338	Here is that danger, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which was spoken of by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet, and which we are trying to eradicate with amendments from this law. Mrs. Vjerica said by explaining the amendment to Article 36 - and then he agreed with the best man or brother, then the brother, thought of the mortgage trustee who sells the mortgaged value, agreed with the best man and friend and then bought at a far lower price, or far less than the real value the mortgaged property has. Article 37 allows a mortgage trustee, or bank, not to have to seek brother, godfather, and friends at all. Paragraph 3 of Article 37 says - if a mortgage trustee settles by obtaining property rights on mortgaged immovableity, the claim is considered to be settled in the current acquisition of property rights. He can't mortgage a trustee to acquire property rights over that property, he can't, he's going to auctions, for sale, until it's sold. Only money can settle a mortgage debt. Everything else would open Pandora's box, where banks who would otherwise come to peel away this little skin to Serbian citizens, which is left over, I don't mean that, but what individuals here call the finance minister, what's left after him, after God's dericocy, and when people are put into a situation that they really have to invest in credit relations and that they really have to take credits under far worse conditions, even if they're putting property under mortgage, this is where Article 37 allows the mortgage trustee, the bank, to give you a loan that you can't literally pay off the property. That's how you drive a lot of people out into the street. I see the minister is waving his head negatively, he won't accept this amendment, and I suggest you press the green button in the voting day and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24339	The word is from Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24340	Dear People's MPs, SRS MP, my esteemed colleague Milan Stevovic, submitted an amendment to Article 37. The Mortgage Law proposal, by presupposing Section 3 to be deleted. In this regard, Article 3 provides that if a mortgage trustee is to be settled by obtaining property rights on mortgage property, the claim shall be deemed to be settled in the current acquisition of property rights. Exactly we are against it, Mr. Minister, or the SRS has the view that a mortgage trustee should not be allowed to acquire property over the property where the mortgage is entered, as numerous abuses by a mortgage trustee are possible. Because, practically, a mortgage trustee can come up with property below the price, he can come up with, I don't know how different it would be on the basis of the contract, and that contract can be, and most often will be simulated, greenish, and then, when such contracts happen, the court takes effect. Just to avoid these unnecessary court disputes, which will be, if you do not adopt this, we propose and hope that we have convinced you to adopt this amendment by a respected colleague Milan Stevovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24341	Now the minister will give an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24342	This time your amendment is at the expense of the debtor. The point of Article 3(3) is that when a trustee acquires his right to property, the claim is deemed to be settled, regardless of whether it is greater than the value of the real estate itself. So this provision is just protecting the debtor from the situation. You see, if the claim is greater than the value of the immovableity, and the trustee has become the owner, then that ends with it, it says here. If a mortgage trustee settles by obtaining property rights over a mortgage, the claim shall be deemed to be settled at the time of acquisition of the right of ownership. That's it, that's what it says here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24343	On behalf of the Head of the Third, the title above the members and Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bora Kutic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister doesn't accept. The People's Messenger Momir Markovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić, then Mrs Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24344	However, there will be plenty of time for all MPs who have reported from the SRS to come out and convince the minister to accept this amendment. National MP Bora Kutic in his amendment asks for the title of the Head above members 38th and Article 38th to be deleted. The settlement when the subject of a mortgage is an object in construction. To the amendments already to Article 3 and all those members who came to this bill after Article 3, and this is a building in construction, the SRS MPs tried to prove to you, ladies and gentlemen the MPs of the ruling coalition, that the building facility could not go on mortgage for a very simple reason. A building facility can only be a building permit and a crying. You already get the right to put a mortgage on an object that you build based on the project that you have, and on that basis you get a loan. Now we're in a situation, so far we've attacked mortgage creditors, and here in this situation we have to defend the mortgage trustee and it's very simple. I've got a salary, I've got a building permit, I've got a project, so I've got this permit to build a business-house facility, ground floor, four or five floors, I get a loan for it, I dig a foundation, I build a first floor, and I stop building there. So, the son I don't live with in the household, the wife I fictitiously divorced in second place, second salary, second building permit, and the funds I got for that loan, build the facility, come the mortgage trustee, find the foundation, find the pay, it goes under the mortgage, and he can't settle. I don't have any other property. Those who build it will surely make sure that the mortgage trustee finds nothing but what is mortgaged. What's going on? It is therefore necessary to adopt the amendment of MP Bora Kutic and this article 38th to be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24345	Thank you. Next, as you agreed, Mr Vojislav Milajić first and then the People's MP Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24346	Here is the conceptual difference between the promoter and what the SRS intervened with the amendments. It's a building in construction and it's a violation of the right to build. In our previous exhibitions, we have pointed out that the building facility cannot be accepted as a real estate. The legislator believes that it can and may be an object of immobility. It will remain in the voting day for the Assembly to decide on it. As for the adjustment of the right to build, the SRS is on the view that the mortgage can only be based on real estate, and here the mortgage is placed on the right to build and all rights are transferred to the future purchaser. There are conflicts and administrative regulations that regulate the right to build, issue building permits and everything that goes with the building permit, so the question is how will it work in practice when the right to build from one person to another is transferred. One person may meet the requirements of a building permit, but the question of this person to whom the right of construction has been transferred, will it also meet these same conditions for building permit and continuing construction. As long as I'm here at the pay phone, I'd use the right to say something about the amendment to Article 39, since it's my amendment, so I don't answer twice. This is about the order of settlement of mortgage creditors. I think it's just to specify the very definition when there's more mortgage creditors. I don't think there's any reason not to adopt the amendment to Article 39. Article 39 provides that the subject of a mortgage... (Milan Parivodić, from the scene: Let's just do a little technical editorial, so let's say, counting from the moment of the first mortgage. If you agree, I accept. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24347	Please, thank you all for your well-meaning, but first, Mr. Milajić's time is running out, and secondly, if he decides to make a correction, then he'll agree on that when the exhibition is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24348	I don't think it would be any problem to adopt the amendment, because it just specifies the definition of a situation where there are more mortgage creditors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24349	Amendment to Article 39 has been accepted? So, you're the only one to record it. Here, according to this amendment, we are now continuing the conversation following an amendment to the title above the members and Article 38. I know, we're going on, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go, so there's no confusion, because you run a stenogram and there's no confusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24350	There will be no confusion, Article 38 preceding Article 37, and in that article we have had a complaint and an amendment to delete attitude 3, where it is said if a mortgage trustee settles by obtaining property rights on mortgaged immovableity, the claim is considered to be settled at the time of acquisition of property rights. We have said here that the trustee cannot acquire the right of property over the property over which the mortgage is entered. My colleagues explained how they explained it. The minister didn't accept it, and it would have been all right if the minister hadn't said something in his explanation that wasn't true. You said, Minister, that the amendment is at the expense of the debtor, and in this proposal of yours, if the mortgage trustee settles by obtaining property rights on mortgaged immovableity, the claim is deemed to be settled at the moment of acquisition of property rights. I don't see what you said here anywhere, and you said the value of the property could be less than the debt, so that you were protecting the debtor in that way. That's not what it says here. We're written, I guess, not written, and that's clear to us. The fact that he's standing here, if the mortgage trustee settles, means he's in favor of this claim, and if he settles himself, it automatically means that his property is worth at least as much debt. If he's calmed down, he's calmed down his debt and his assets are worth at least that much. This is just to clarify, because I haven't been able to replicate the minister before. Think about it, Minister, I'm right. So we suggested that the entire article 38 be deleted, as well as the title, the head, the title, etc. You say, if the subject of a mortgage is an object in the construction of its sale in order to settle it, it is determined by the law of construction, etc. Our principled attitude from the beginning, and there we disagreed, apparently, that immovableity is the only publishing facility at the mortgage. The law can't be, it's the subject of some other law. This is especially about the Bond Act. There's another problem here we've been talking about and in the principle debate, I've listed to you, Minister, in principle, how much of the law is in the balance of this mortgage bill of yours. Here's a concrete example, you say, of the body that granted the building approval at the request of the buyer of the building will issue the customer at the same time a building approval on its behalf and cancel the old building approval, so that the buyer has the right to complete the facility. I'd like you to tell me which member of the Planning and Construction Act is this. It's impossible for this to stand here without it being in the Planning and Construction Act and not standing. It's not possible. The Law on Planning and Construction is not possible, ministers are not possible, the Law on Planning and Construction is an exclusive law that speaks of the issue of approval for construction, and objects that are yet to be built and objects that have already been built in so-called "Build Planning and Construction". legalisation procedure. So it's a basic law for that area, and by some other law, you can't regulate it differently than it is in that basic law. Your problem, I don't mean your personal problem with the government of Vojislav Kostunica, is that you have the feuds instead of the ministries. Where you have ministers from other parties, you don't seem to be communicating, as if you're not talking to the government at all about legal proposals. He has his vision of the problem, the one of his, and the one of his, each according to his political views, since political programmes mostly do not have these coalition partners of yours. Of course, it's their business and yours. I'm telling you that this is legally impossible and that, despite what we said at the beginning and that we disagree in the concept of solving this problem, this position of the 2nd member is proof of my claim from the principle debate that your law is in collegiate with many laws, and here, specifically, with the Law on Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24351	Thank you. Member of the 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts the amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister has just accepted this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24352	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 49. The draft mortgage law, by proposing that Article 49, paragraph 1, be deleted. Item 1 (1) can indeed be accepted, as the mortgage stops printing, when the mortgage trustee and the mortgage debtor is acquired in the same person, which is fine. However, the proposed Article 49(2) provides for the termination of the mortgage when the mortgage trustee acquires the right of property to mortgage immovableity. Of course, the SRS believes that the mortgage trustee should not be allowed to acquire property rights on which the mortgage is entered, because, as I said in the explanation of the amendment of the esteemed colleague Milan Stevovic, there may be many abuses, that the mortgage trustee may abuse the mortgage debtor, impose on him simulated, green and many other contracts, so that the mortgage trustee acquires the property of the mortgage debtor below the price, and even at minimum prices. This has happened in practice so far, and now if you adopt this law, it will happen for sure and more, and then the courts come to the scene. Just to avoid it, we are proposing to delete this member. Analyzingly, if this claim is accepted that a mortgage trustee cannot acquire the right to property of a mortgage debtor, then the mortgage cannot cease on this basis, when a mortgage trustee acquires property rights on mortgaged immovableity. I suggest you adopt my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24353	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 50th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Part six, titles above members and Articles 56, 57. 58, 59, 60th and 61st amendments were submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister is not accepting this amendment for the time being. (Milan Parivodić, from the post: You should put this in context with the amendment of MP Palalic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Parivodic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24354	The point is that Mr Palalic has introduced in his amendments certain fundamental changes that are largely consistent with your amendments, and I accept Mr Palalic's amendments, so if that suits you, that's that. If you're not happy with it, then we can discuss your amendments as well. In any case, it is the cataster of immovableity that will keep a record in electronic form and that record does not have a constituent character. So the mortgage occurs either by enrolling in a cadastre or by enrolling in a land book. The Land Book, under official duty, delivers a catastra, which runs an electronic database, data on registered mortgages, a cadastre, within its own institution, puts it on the Internet and thus combines this electronic record, which, I repeat, has only an informative character and has no constitutional character, because we believe it would be legally insecure and we are not quite sure that the court will always send information to the cataster by official duty. As a result, however, we stick to the fact that the constitutional character has only enrollment in the Catastre, or Land Book.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24355	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 56 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Member of the 57th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. Member of the 58th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. People's MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic submitted a joint amendment proposing that they join. 58, 59, 61 and 63, the word "age" in the corresponding decline is replaced by the words "immobility cads" in the corresponding decline. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment, as the amendment of MP Palalic has already been accepted. Member of the 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Parliamentarians Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 60 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Jovan Palalic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Minister accepts this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 64 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The minister does not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, and in an exceptional mutual atmosphere, I would like to thank all the participants, does the proposal's representative, Dr Milan Parivodić, the Minister of Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, want the final word? Here you go, Mr. Parisian.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24356	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talked about the Foreign Trade Act, at the conclusion of the debate on details, I told you that it was a pleasure working together, that we were very constructive, and I am expressing the same satisfaction today. It's really been a pleasure. I think all the parliamentary groups, who participated in the work on this law, have made an important contribution to improving the text of the law. You know that in terms of the law I'm not vain, any improvement is precious, anyone who convinces me by his argument his amendment will be adopted and you've seen that I've partly proven what I'm saying now. The other day, I had a very nice situation. One of our major exporters came to me and said what you did with the Foreign Trade Act, what you changed the law and the way you changed it led to me now being a song to do business. Those jobs I've been doing in Vienna and Belgium right now, I'm working in Belgrade. The money is now coming to Belgrade and staying in Belgrade. You see, that's the point of a good law, to make life easier for people, to bring in legal certainty, not to get the money out of the country because the law is trying to bring life to a halt, which wants to stir up its natural course. It's this mortgage law that's really a big novelty in our legal system. Not because it's a separate mortgage law, we haven't had that law yet. We had provisions on mortgages in earlier laws, not as a special law, but they were included in civil laws or in the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Laws. The solutions that this proposal, which I believe you will adopt, offers one qualitative leap towards freedom of business, credit business, lending and an effective demand security system. We've made a big leap of this law, and we're likely to notice somewhere in the walk that we have a problem, and we're going to react immediately and correct that problem. I can never say that when you make a jump like this, which requires courage, you won't make a mistake. If the problem arises, we will remove this problem, but in fact we have unblocked a huge amount of national property of our citizens, which from the day this law begins to apply to a much greater extent to turn to banks and get loans to improve their lives. This was the goal and we achieved this by significantly expanding the fund of assets on which to place the mortgage, by putting the buildings in the building into the subject of the mortgage, by placing the unregistered objects in the subject of the mortgage and by installing a very efficient immovable property sales mechanism in this law, which allows banks to safely and with greater breadth and freedom to enter the credit-provided transactions. This law also came as a fruit of consultation with the Banks' Association, with courts and monasteries. We expect that it will really have an impact on improving the lives of our people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24357	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL ON DAVANJA CONTRAGRANTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA AND BLACK GORE BY THE SERVE OF THE EUROPEAN INVESTICION BANK (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of the infrastructure of flight control - Serbia-Montenegro - details) You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Vojislav Milajić and Petar Jojic on the proposal of the law. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24358	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank (Project of a comprehensive rehabilitation of flight control infrastructure), I don't know if you mind the title of this law, and I think it should bother everyone, because it is completely illogical that the Republic of Serbia gives counterguarantee to the state community of Serbia-Montenegro. This loan has already been provided with guarantees from the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and we now have a proposal from the government and the resolute Minister of Mladjan Dinkic, who is not here, and should be here when it comes to the law in particular. So we have a proposal that the Republic of Serbia gives counter-guarantee to the state community. How can we interpret this? The most logical and normal that someone has already accepted the fact that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro does not actually exist and we all know that it is the electoral programme of the minister representing, or who should represent this law, but that they see in their programme the separate Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia in no way gives them the right to, as members of the current government, which is formally, at least the Prime Minister, declares that for the common state of Serbia-Montenegro, it is truly incomprehensible and incredible that such a law could be found on the agenda of this parliament at all. We had, when last session was scheduled, a similar law, just referred to the Colubary Mine, based "The Dark One." In that whole title of the law, there was one big mistake, but when that happens on the agenda, we'll talk about it, so I don't have to judge right now. We Serbian radicals were convinced that the law was removed from the agenda, because it was removed before it was discussed and in principle debate, because someone smart realized that it was completely illogical for the republic to guarantee the state community, which had already given a guarantee of approval of a loan. This is the basic motive that led us from the SRS to express our view of this law, which is that we have proposed amendments to delete all individual members, or one by one member of this law, because this is the only way to prove that we think that this law should never be passed in this House. When it came to this law in the principle debate, then the authorised representative of the SRS, our parliamentary group, was Momir Markovic. At that time, there was a lot to hear about crime in flight control. At that time, Mr. Momir Markovic met the people's MPs and the public of Serbia with a text from the SRS newspaper "The Great Serbia", "Who controls the controllers". Indeed, after what was heard then and what was published in "The Great Serbia", I wonder how it is possible that the public prosecutor did not react and that one of the players of this big robbery did not end up in custody or that no appropriate criminal proceedings were initiated. Here we are talking about an incredible robbery and kidnapping of state property and money, which has been going on for many years, and it has been created by the former Federal Aviation Control Authority being shut down and instead formed by the Flight Control Agency, registered as a limited liability society. It was also, when we talked about it, one of the proofs as right as we Serbian radicals when we advocated not accepting a proposal to form some new agencies, because very quickly, after the formation of the agency, it turned out that we were absolutely right when we claimed and when we claim that these agencies had laid down various manipulations, robberies and certain meeting the needs of some parliamentary groups from the ruling coalition, by hiring some people in those agencies in the name, of course, what they did for their party. It is very interesting that this agency is registered in the Register as a limited liability society. I don't know if that was the reason the D.A. doesn't think the law was broken, because it's just a limited liability. Of course, we Serbian radicals know it's not true and we know what's really behind it. Here I'm going to quote just one sentence published in the article "Who controls controllers." He says, "If it is only in the light of the fact that every flyover across our sky costs a company, whose plane is about $200, and that our country is at the intersection of the airways and that at the daily level of 2002, about 850 flights have been made, it is easy to come up with the fact that a clean income of over 200 million euros is made annually. "So these are assets that are not known who manages them, how they manage, who is responsible. It seems that no one is responsible, especially given that the state prosecutor did not react, and he had to react in accordance with his authority. Then I really wonder what this Article 2 means, whose erasure I have proposed with this amendment. Article 2 speaks of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia and says that the counter-guarantee under Article 1 of this law is given to Serbia-Montenegro, on behalf of the obligation of the Serbian Agreement to support the project between the European Investment Bank and the Republic of Serbia, concluded in accordance with the Financial Treaty between the European Investment Bank, as a lender and the Aviation Control Agency of Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. as a borrower, concluded on 10 June 2005. So it is obvious that what is written, which was published in "The Great Serbia", which Momir Markovic was talking about here, preceded this bill that we are discussing today in particular. It is obvious that, as always so far, we Serbian radicals had real and full information and that we wanted to animated the public, primarily the public prosecutor. But here is how it has not been responded in accordance with the powers of the public prosecutor, I hope that you colleagues, and we have all given you the "Greater Serbia" list in the voting day to vote for these amendments, by erasing all these members from the adoption of this unconstitutional law. Because this law, above all, does not comply with the Charter, does not comply with the fact that there is a state union and it is inexcusable and unforgivable that someone who participates in the Government, someone who rules in the Republic of Serbia, proposes such a law. Because this gives us the circumstantial knowledge that part of the ruling coalition already treats Montenegro apart from Serbia and the state union only sees it as a mere formality. Of course, we Serbian radicals have an attitude about it. We think that the state union of Serbia and Montenegro must remain as a single state and not even as this monster of the state, as it is now, but as a single state, and we are fully convinced that in the end it will be, and until then we ask fellow Members of Parliament to accept these amendments, not to participate in the play of the works of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you adopt this law, then you will really have to explain how you see the existence of a state union, because it is not logical that one member guarantees something that the state community has done. So, once again, I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment, since there is no minister to suggest that he withdraw this unforgivable, unconstitutional, anti-state and whatever law you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24359	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24360	This amendment requires the removal of Article 3 which regulates the borrower's obligations in three positions. The borrower under this proposal is the Agency for the Control of Flying of Serbia-Montenegro d.o.o. Yesterday I received a copy of the Agency's registration for this, it was once the Flight Control Board, and the registration on those lists can be found to be true that the founding capital is indeed 9:8 in favour of the Republic of Serbia compared to the Republic of Montenegro. That list 2 also lists the amount of value of assets in things, it's a very large number, and a portion of the foreign currency is entered, which is a modest figure. But what's important is that the founders of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, with registered actions, which are not only concerned with these classic jobs that were done by the Board of Flight Control, but with one extended list of activities, so I would even say that there are commercial jobs that enable the agency's market behaviour, which suggests that if this happens in the management structure so much abuse, and privatises and plays known volunteerism when it comes to money, then really anything can happen. Those who say they are a state-of-the-art party, and they draw their state-of-the-art from the fact that they participated in the destruction of the SRJ and the creation of the state-level community, a formation that has not been known so far in history, I would remind them, since few of them are in the Oval, they have now escaped, however, some have long fled, a month ago, that they were also forced, in addition to the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, and here in this assembly have passed the Law implementing the Constitutional Charter of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. And now there is one very interesting member, which is a member of a regular number of 15, which has 19 points, starts with an introductory sentence -- until the definition of their final status, the following authorities and organisations continue to carry out operations, so there is a Federal Aviation Control Board on a regular basis. There is the Federal Plants Institute, etc., the Museum of Yugoslavia, the History Museum, the Archive of Yugoslavia, the Port Captain, and even the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Of course, later in these bilateral talks, I use the term from international law on purpose, because what happens at the Serbia-Montenegro relationship is representatives of the government in Serbia and representatives of the government in Montenegro. In this communication, they made a state-owned shareholder society, with 92% of the Republic of Serbia, 8% of the Republic of Montenegro. But, essentially and formally, in the registration, I didn't notice that there are those two letters of JP, nor anything that indicates that they are performing actions of particular social interest. In that sense, what is stated in the light of this proposal for a law is a constitutional basis for the adoption of laws, then practically cannot exist. So, the one who submitted the bill was a completely wrong constitutional basis, he found it in Section 1 of Sections 1 and 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and where it is said that the Republic of Serbia is prescribed to regulate and provide, among other things, relations with other countries and international institutions, as well as a system in the area of economic relations with abroad. I don't know what this law does to abroad. This is where the counterguarantee is given for d.o.o. This means all those who run an agency or some company with an organisational form d.o.o., in which there is a share of state capital, can also conclude some foreign borrowing contract, and that through the National Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro and through this National Assembly, they are looking for a guarantee there, here a counterguarantee. I cite this in order to make it clear what all the legislators had to forget, what they had to go through or pretend they didn't exist in the legal system in order to make the borrowing of 34m euros. I must say that in this proposal for a law on the issue of counterguarantee, we do not see any elemental parts, nor any indication of any clauses of this agreement with the foreign partner, the European Investment Bank, or this part called the Serbian Agreement. So whoever proposed this law has placed in five members standard provisions concerning counter-guarantee, and we don't even know how long Serbia's counter-guarantee will last, which is a lack of view of the Public Debt Act, which the majority adopted several months ago. This law was passed here in the National Assembly, and then there was a long round of applause because you won. See, neither did you bring in the text of the counter-guarantee law nor did you find it appropriate to quote it. We don't know how much our counterguarantee will apply here. Our counter-guarantee, the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia, cannot go on forever. We had to get a report on the material and financial operations of this agency along with this bill of law, but we also had to get a balance sheet on the company's situation, because this is a real company, a company, and even more precisely, if we had a balance sheet, we could see what property this agency has. If we got a balance of success, we'd see what her business is like and whether she can raise funds from her current business. It's regulated by Article 3. The bill, to which Mr. Sarovic submitted the amendment and asked to be deleted, because the SRS is asking to delete this whole bill, since nothing is wrong with what is written here. Uncontrollably, you enter into debt and an unauthorized National Assembly gives counterguarantee. I couldn't even repeat everything Mr. Markovic said a few days ago, Momir Markovic, from this pay phone, and it concerns internal relations in that agency and the state of property and business of the agency. I remember very well that there were data on non-domestic business, on the distribution of funds, by the system probably there are also family relations, friendly and party parceling, or sharing everything that has to do with civil aviation. It is a public secret that what is called the maintenance technique belongs to the party's interest sphere, whose president and minister are. It is also known that what is called air traffic in our national JAT house belongs to a party whose president is a minister, but in the state community. It is precisely known that what is "Belgrade" Airport belongs to an interesting sphere of an encrypted association or a voluntary society. It's not the Trieste Committee, it's not Bildeberg, it's just something that starts with G, and I see that in Vojvodina they're trying to ban it. You who vote and you citizens who read the copy of "Great Serbia", where the original data on the business of this agency has been published, which would always have to be the Flight Control Board, even if it changes its name to - agency, is its original form of activity, controlling flying in the jurisdiction of the state. This would have to be one administrative organisation, because it carries out professional affairs of interest for the state, especially if it is in the light of and rigorousity of air traffic safety regulations and the obligations our country has undertaken, so why not say not how many ten years ago, when there has been an expansion of aviation in Europe and in the former Yugoslavia. The agency now, the former Administration, is a profitable administrative body. Every fly they charge and have enough resources and I don't see any reason why the state would be in debt, when it comes to a single company, with a clearly defined property structure, where the Republic of Serbia has 92% stakes and the Republic of Montenegro 8% share. Just to remind you that Mr Markovic has brought here a large amount of data on blocked assets, technical means, and even referred to some quotas that are in a technical and technological sense very important for the efficient and secure functioning of this administration and aviation on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and not only Serbia, given that the observation zone exceeds both the territory of Serbia and the borders that exist with us. So, there are a number of formal shortcomings which are why this law cannot be passed. There's no constitutional basis, what's listed here is a failure and it's shooting at blanks. Furthermore, in an organisational sense, this agency should be a administrative organisation, not a limited-responsibility society. If it's a society of the so-called. The state property, two Member States, two member states, then had to apply the Law on Public Enterprises and Action of General Interest here, then it had to happen a completely different way of borrowing the company abroad. Because if this logic is applied which is represented here, then any society that has more than 50% of the state property in the interests of that society can, with a lot of rights, address the request of the Republic of Serbia to provide counter-guarantee, and the Assembly of the state community to provide guarantees and, of course, to conclude an agreement with one of these financial institutions abroad. For these reasons, I must say, yes and when the Public Debt Act was passed, no one had in mind, but here something got too tight. The official is as far as I can see in this paper, and it's called the bill, it's the finance minister. The law tried with a stick and a voice and with its presence to defend the minister of capital investment. When Momir Markovic's shelling started and he set fire to it. So, it's all clear to all of us, it's much more honorable for us to attack, and you think about what it's like to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24361	National MP Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that this amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24362	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, MP Zoran Krasic said the political consequences of voting such a law, and I will also propose to the National Assembly that this amendment, which was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic, accept. Because accepting such an amendment to Article 4 would, in fact, prevent the vote of this law given as a proposal. So it's about the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, giving Serbia-Montenegro flight control agency d.o.o. a 31m-euro counter-guarantee. The reason why you don't have to accept one of these legal proposals is simple. By giving counterguarantee, we allow one of the thieves' families to get even richer. That's the only real reason why this counter-guarantee doesn't need to be voted. After the bulldozer revolution and on October 5th in Serbia, there was a division of the spoils of sponsors, friends, participants of the bulldozer revolution, etc. I don't want to pick it up. So some decided to deal with roads, Ljubisa Buha, called Chuma, some decided to deal with kidnappings and ransoms, it was Shiptar, some decided to deal with sugars, there was Miodrag Kostic, and many of them, in fact, had done some damage to the state and retreated, some had protected witnesses, and some had maintained the functions and positions they had received after October 5th. At the post of Director-General of the Aviation Control Agency, Nikola Stankov was appointed, a man the employees say is a husband by profession, because his basic recommendation for this place was that his wife was a secretary in the cabinet of Zoran Djindjic, then Zoran Zivkovic, and finally again in some cabinet of the government. After being enthroned, the Director-General begins general preparation for flight control. For starters, he offered that everyone who wanted to leave the facility could leave with the severance. Twenty of them take 24 personal incomes. Those whom the director wanted to be freed, and they did not fish in severance, the Dosmanian leadership eliminated in a different way. They simply get jobs out of work, so they can't see what's going on, what decisions are made and where the money is going. If anyone rebelled, he'd go ahead of discipline, and then he'd go on a pre-constitutional and dilute procedure outside. Since the company could have been so stuffed, it could've gone into serious business. To begin, more than 100 new workers were employed, with one recommendation and qualification being to have a membership card, primarily DS, read on - thieves' families, or at least some of the DOS coalition parties. So organized they could go into general kidnapping, robbery, arrogant spending and crime, or as it is now popularly called, organized crime in the right sense of that word. So here's what it looks like when democratic power takes matters into its own hands. First, workers who are qualified, able to do the job, eliminate, and then bring their party councilmen and move into one big robbery. It has already been said about how much the Aviation Control Agency earns, over 200m euros. Did anyone ever wonder how much money Mr. Stankov paid or the thief Stankov? About a million dinars, no less. Mr. husband has a million dinar salary. What about the money that was blocked in the Swiss banks while there was federal flight control and flying control over Republika Srpska and BiH. What about the funds received for flying control over Macedonia and Bulgaria? What about that money? Due to economic sanctions, imposed by the UN SRJ in 1992, flying control could still only work for our Fleet Control Authority and controlled the sky and over some neighbouring states. Since we were under sanctions, that money was being paid into special accounts in the Swiss banks and was not unblocked until October 5th, or the Bulldozer of the Revolution. What about that money? That's two or three years' worth of income. Where did he end up? This should be answered by husband Stankov, director of some kind of agency doo, he is still represented as a public enterprise, and the shareholder company is with limited responsibility. So, the Republic of Serbia is not behind one such institution, which is now controlled by thieves and thieves, to whom you plan to give 32m euros. Next, it's supposed to be some kind of rehabilitation of the flight control infrastructure. What this rehabilitation of flight control infrastructure is looking at. Five radar systems were purchased, no less from Vietnam. I've never heard of Vietnam dealing with the production of radar systems. I know it's Russia, the United States, Great Britain, France, Canada, but I haven't heard of Vietnam. Perhaps Mr. Stankov bought the radar systems that the Americans left 74, 75, 76, when they fled Vietnam, but then certainly did not cost 32m euros, or there was a difference between cost and 32m euros, with an oligarchy from the DS, in his pocket. It's more like it is. Nevertheless, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or the People's MPs, especially those ruling majority, because the SRS will not vote for one such bill, should allow Mr. Stankov's husband, to be stolen even more and richer. It was already said that there was a complete radar system built on the Kopalnik, allegedly disrupting NATO, so we can't activate it, but it didn't bother Mr. Stankov's husband to buy a sledgehammer. Why? Let him explain it. Further, from that debate in principle under the proposal of this law to the day of today, six officers working in flight control, under the orders of Mr. husband Stankov, were expelled, or otherwise, from flight control. Mr. Stankov suspected these officers of giving SRS information for this debate. So what the authorised representative of the SRS was saying on this agenda point, Mr. Momir Markovic, was correct. All the information the SRS provided was accurate and this is evident from the reaction of Mr. Stankov's husband. So, officers working in flight control are fired, and the only reason is the discussion of the MPs of the SRS. He was probably afraid he wouldn't be able to steal with his oligarchy anymore, so he decided that these people, who are from the profession in that facility, were the busiest from work. It is time for the republican public prosecutor and interior minister to ask what's going on with our flying control and what's going on there. Is there really a desire to stand in the way of one thief's oligarchy, a thief's family, who does nothing else, but at least 200 million euros a year steals, so it's little, but we have to give them another 32 million, to find their allowance along the way, while these big capital thefts are carried out in action. So if it depends on the MPs, this law should be rejected, returned to the Proposer, should not give counterguarantee to Mr. Husband, and the republican public prosecutor and interior minister, Mr. Jocic, it is time to act on official duty and put that oligarchy where the name is, in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24363	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Legislative Committee propose that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since our colleague Momir Markovic currently has certain party obligations, I will read another part of his article, which he wrote in the list of Greater Serbia and regarding the robbery in flight control, to draw attention once again to this law and to the article to which this amendment has been submitted. It is said that a normal man, he says, immediately raises the question, which is why all these new systems are being built, and it is about the systems that Veroljub Arsic was talking about here. The answer is very simple - because of the commission around the tender. The first was built and fully equipped system on the Kopalnik, of course tenders by the director of Stankov and his camels. Only when the centre is finished has it been established that it cannot be used, because it does not allow, imagine who - KFOR. Then begins a new purchase of complete equipment and construction of a new centre on the mountain of Murtenica, in Zlatibor. And whoever put up the tenders and selected the bidders, the contractors, of course, the director of Stankov again. At the same time, he enters negotiations with Bulgaria and plans to build a system on Bulgaria's territory, on the Rila Mountain. It's amazing that someone's building their systems on the territory of another country. I guess that's the only way he can do that. It's clear what motives are and what love is at stake here. Of course, there is no love other than love for money, which is obtained from the chosen equipment provider and, of course, it is no wonder that complete leadership is held cramped for political parties and their leadership. As said earlier, the management of this agency was in contact with the DS, and today they are in full love with Velija Ilic, Labus, Dinkic and Vuk Draskovic. So, besides the robbery of state money through a tender for the purchase of equipment, for the construction of a radar system, for which no quality of equipment is important, and then here is the equipment of antiquity that has been purchased from Vietnam, the acquisition of the most luxurious equipment for the purposes of the facility itself is also carried out, or, more specifically, the director and the closest to it. In addition to the already mentioned two purchases of the most luxurious cars, worth a million euros, a couple of motor sleds were purchased, under the pretext that they are necessary for the operation of the system on the Kopalnik, and that after the knowledge that the Kopalnik will never work, the radar system will not work, but the hotels, ski routes and the entire tourist offer will certainly be very active. As the "Greater Serbia" list puts it, this is the tip of the iceberg and the tip of the criminal pyramid, which we Serbian radicals, through this newspaper, have tried to expose. How much this robbery really is, we hope it will determine the authorities. This time I publicly urge the republican prosecutor to do a little bit of work, to read the stenograms, to take this "Greater Serbia", number 2354, to collect documentation, to do a little work. Indeed, it's about time some people, who rob the country this much, went to jail. What are you doing with this bill on granting counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro? You give these thieves, if you vote for the law, 31,280,000 euros. In addition to all the terrible things we've heard, even though the government thinks when it proposes some law of five members that there's nothing to talk about, and you see how much to say about those five members, here's something that's scary, I'd say scary. It states in the light of this law that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 72(1) and (4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Fellow MPs, and this is more for Serbia's public opinion, to see what the position of the Serbian government is, because regardless of what Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus signed, Vojislav Kostunica does not amnesty. Yet this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is obviously their attitude towards the common state of Serbia-Montenegro. Because Article 72(1), which was the constitutional basis for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose this shameful, terrible, criminal law, is: "The Republic of Serbia is governing and ensuring sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and its international position and relations with other countries and international organisations. "Ladies and gentlemen, the government of the Republic of Serbia has called here on the position of member 72, which speaks of Serbia's international position and relations with other states and international organisations. So, Montenegro, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia, expressed through this bill, is another foreign country compared to Serbia. For us from the SRS, this is unacceptable, and we cannot have a positive view of this idea or this law or the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is merely a revelation of what we have long spoken of and what we fear, and we express our fears and attitudes. That is why we said, among other things, that this law must not survive in our legal system, that it must not be passed by the congregation. That is why we have proposed all these amendments, and that is why this amendment, which may seem pointless to someone because it refers to Article 5, and Article 5, says that this law is in effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Of course, this is a constitutional category, it is in accordance with Article 120. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but provided that what is preceded by Article 5, and this bill and other members in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Constitutional Charter, in accordance with Serbia-Montenegro's interests, as a single state, not to mention the state union. And that it is not a big robbery that the Republic of Serbia, or the Assembly, will help if you vote for this law. Of course, the five of you in the ruling majority don't know what the position of the ruling coalition will be, and you can't know, but if you vote for this bill, then these criminals, as I said, I repeat, will be invited by the Attorney General to do their dirty work, you will assist with 31,280,000 euros. It's a debt, it's a loan, it's a loan that will repay citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what we in the SRS think is devastating, not only in economic terms, but also in economic, but also in general state and general, because this law is not even a little harmless. As bad as it is for so many billions of people in charge of Serbia, it is even more devastating that this law exposes the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which has been called by the government in the light of this law to Article 72, and where Montenegro has called another international state, as stated in Article 72, paragraph 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So please, colleagues, the five of you from the ruling coalition, tell your other colleagues to read the stenogram from this session, let them read what's written in "Great Serbia". Do not let it be you who will officially say for the first time that Serbia-Montenegro is not one state, that there is no state union, even if it exists, because if we have a guarantee of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, then Serbia's counter-guarantee is not needed, even if it is a legally valid job, let alone, when it comes to oiling criminals in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24365	Mrs. Radeta, what you said to five of the coalition, then your SRS has six. Here you go, replica. Since you started counting, count the people who are here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24366	Mr. Chairman, first of all, you have no right to communicate with the MPs. That's not in line with the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying what I think I should say here. You go ahead, if you happen to have someone to replace you in that place, answer your word. There are 15 MPs here. We have amendments to five members, we've talked about all the amendments. We're the biggest opposition party. There are three times more of us here than you who will vote for this law which is, in fact, the adoption of criminal acts. I just don't understand why you're reacting now, since we've been saying that this dirty shop is involved with Vuk Draskovic. It's not like you're back to the old flock.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-21-0.u24367	Mrs. Radeta, since you've already counted yours, there are nine MPs of the ruling coalition here, so you have the exact number. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a review of the Bill's draft amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby set Thursday's Rules of Procedure, December 22, 2005, at 10.00 p.m. as a day for voting on all points of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005.
