ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23079	Thank you, Mr. President, for being in the mood for work and good communication today in the Assembly. I would take the opportunity to, above all, thank the Minister of Health for adopting two amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, the one that I submitted on behalf of the SRS and the other who submitted to Mr Nemanja Sarovic, which explains that the proposed amendment improves the text of the proposed law, i.e. when it comes to my amendment, that the amendment is accepted for the reason why the Red Cross of Serbia's activities are more fully demonstrated and thus improves the text of the law. So, as far as the Minister's objections are concerned, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party who are against the principle of voting of this law, and later on, when they vote completely on the law, and how they have the right to submit amendments, not only by law, Constitution and Rules of Procedure, but also because these amendments, as you can see, can also improve the bill. Since the minister was not present when we discussed the amendments, I will use his presence to try to convince him that some more of the amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, when it comes to the Red Cross Law of Serbia, have been adopted. In the name of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 because the position 1 defines that the Red Cross of Serbia is a humanitarian, independent, non-profit and voluntary organisation established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is an integral part of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as national society). The Serbian Radical Party's amendment is defined as changing Article 1st position and reads as follows: "The Red Cross of Serbia is a humanitarian and voluntary organisation established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is an integral part of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as the National Society) and that St. 2 and 3 are deleted where it is said that "The Red Cross of Serbia carries out public powers established by law and carries out other tasks of public interest, in accordance with the ratified international contract, the law and other regulations and general acts, and in the exercise thereof, has the position of an organisation that assists the competent state authorities in the humanitarian field. The Red Cross of Serbia enjoys the help of competent state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units in performing its tasks." The comment of the Serbian Radical Party is that it is not disputed that the Red Cross of Serbia is a humanitarian and voluntary organisation and should remain in the bill. We know that they have written a complete text from international organisations and that this bill is based on this, too, but I will try to prove that these words "independent, or non-profit" should not exist for many reasons. The reason for this law is that the Red Cross of Serbia, as an independent, voluntary and humanitarian organisation, is part of the national society – the Red Cross Society of Serbia-Montenegro and a member of the International Federation of Red Cross and the Red Crescent Society. It's okay. First of all, we need to determine what sources they are. Here it is defined as the very reason for the law to be passed to finance itself from the Serbian state budget. In addition, it is also necessary to provide for individual powers of the Red Cross, which is not disputed again. Is this how, if we finance the Red Cross from Serbia's budget, the position of an independent and humanitarian organisation is ensured, and this is at the same time an auxiliary body in the humanitarian field? If it enjoys the assistance of the Republic of Serbia and if it is on the budget, then this organisation cannot be independent. If the funds are provided not only from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, but also from the budget of the unit of local self-government (every local self-government gives a certain amount of money to the Red Cross), then the organisation cannot be independent, as the first member of the law stands. The funds for the operation of the Red Cross organization are provided from the following sources: membership fees, gambling revenues allocated and allocated to humanitarian needs within the framework of the Republic of Serbia's budget under the law that regulates gambling, and through the Red Cross budget fund, from providing services, and by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities, as well as local self-government units. If it is financed from providing services, then it cannot be said that the organisation is unprofitable, because it means that it has a certain profit from various events. It is also financed from specific activities and actions to raise money and material resources, from contributions, subsidies, donations, as well as from some other revenues. Another proof that the organisation is not independent and non-profitable is what is defined in Article 21: "The fine of between 10,000 and million dinars will be fined for a violation of an organisation that does not pay the funds prescribed in Article 15 of this law. "It is okay that there are criminal provisions if those obligations that stand out of the budget towards the Red Cross are not paid. But it is proof that the organization is not independent and that it is not non-profitable. The government has defined the financing of the Red Cross of Serbia and states that the funding provisions, under Articles 13 to 18 of the Law, establish a comprehensive system and provide for sources of funding according to the nature of the work, but also entities that have an obligation to provide financial resources, as well as a way to provide these funds and their allocation to the Red Cross of Serbia. The funds are used to finance Serbia's Red Cross programme, which again gives consent to the government of the Republic of Serbia. All funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget for public authority shall be allocated to the Red Cross on the basis of a programme of work and financial plans to be delivered to the competent authorities of the state administration and, above all, to the Republic Ministry of Health Affairs. So it is also related to the republican authorities, that is, those who are executives of the budget. I do not want to repeat what they have defined in their own reasoning, to provide funding from different sources: from membership fees paid by members of the Red Cross; the revenues from gambling which are allocated to humanitarian actions within the Republic of Serbia's budget; the actions that the state authorities and the regional authorities, as well as the units of local self-government, are entrusted to the Red Cross of Serbia; the action for the collection of funds that the Red Cross is buried; subsidies, donations, etc., as well as that, under Article 2 of the 15th Act, they are charged additionally on tickets in the airline, railway, ship and bus traffic, postal traffic, as well as tickets for cultural, entertainment, sports and fairs. These amounts shall be determined in certain percentages. Why are we making all this possible? Because the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro is financed from the budget, and we have plenty of examples where there has been budget abuse, primarily by the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute, with the help of the health minister, Prof. Tomica Milosavljevic, who was at his head, and as health minister, he is also at the head of all institutions when it comes to health. Since blood cannot be imported or artificially produced, the institution of voluntary giving, where a voluntary donor is a central figure of every country, including ours, has been patiently built for years. The construction of the institution and the voluntary blood system is attended by various entities, and the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the law, is normal to organise, stimulate and plan such activities of voluntary blood donation, as well as the implementation of a blood reserve programme, which is of general interest to all citizens of Serbia. The health ministry was obliged to stimulate the above-mentioned activities by means of budget funds, but to channel international donations in this direction. Did experts feel that blood could be a very lucrative business, so instead of stimulating, they came to an organized dispersal of the entire Serbian voluntary blood system, or was it purely political amateurism, as well as irresponsibility, primarily towards the nation, as well as the population of our country? These answers can only be obtained from the professional public, as well as from the competent state authorities. The questions asked to many ministers, as well as Minister Tomica Milisavljevic, is that the funds of European taxpayers have been used against the interests of Serbia's citizens' health, which we have not been given an answer to today. On 12.12.2002, when considering the budget, the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded that budget funds were intended for the Red Cross to stimulate voluntary giving paid to the Institute for Blood Transfusion by the Ministry of Health. These funds are intended for the realisation of the law of general interest and have been used unintendedly, and above all for the purchase of equipment of the Institute, without the accompanying quality certificate for use in the blood transfusion service. Worse still, this equipment is an integral part of the international organisation programme, i.e. the European Agency for Reconstruction. Budgetary control found that Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic accidentally spent 300 million dinars for these purposes at the time. This is just one example that if it continues in this direction to act, the erosion and destruction of the entire health system will continue, as this example has shown that the destruction of the Serbian blood transfusion service is obviously now in place. Hopefully that'll stop it soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23080	The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23081	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, as representative of the G17 Group of MPs, I'm going to express something different than my esteemed colleague who spoke before me. So it is disputed here whether in the definition of the position of the Red Cross Serbia should stand as an independent and non-profit organisation. My predecessor explains that since the organization gets funds from the state or local self-government, it means it's addictive. I would, however, as far as addiction is concerned, define against some other facts and traits of the Red Cross, which are just defining this law. The Statute of the Red Cross, this is Article 4, which provides that the organs, modes of work and organization are governed by the Red Cross itself. So, what these organs are going to look like, who's going to be in them, what decisions they're going to make, is just being decided by the Red Cross organization. It is a reflection of her independence. Why the state's funding the Red Cross, that's another remark. Because the state transferred its powers, as public authorities, to the Red Cross. In order for the Red Cross to do these powers, the state has to finance it. The state will not transfer any authority without providing funds for its operation, for its functioning. Therefore, the state's funding of something that should otherwise be done, but as public authority entrusted to the Red Cross, does not affect whether the Red Cross will be dependent or independent. Otherwise, the modern tendency in the administrations of all modern states testifys that the state is increasingly transferring the number of powers to other organisations and funding their work. As for the word "independent", I think I've given enough arguments that it's really about an independent organization. She herself forms her structure, her organs, self-finances her actions, except for what the state has entrusted her as public authority. If the state, on the other hand, provides assistance to the organisation, it still does not mean that it is dependent on the state. The state only appreciates that the organisation has a role that is very important to the state and therefore helps. It's a different kind of vision. Also, it does not affect whether she is dependent or independent. As far as profitability is concerned, it is clear that the Red Cross is not a company, it is not registered as a company, there are no bodies as a company, it does not carry out other obligations of a company, so it does not carry out economic activity on the market in order to obtain profits. Therefore, I don't think the amendment should be accepted. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote in favour of this law and will not vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23082	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23083	It's just a different concept, nothing more. I have indicated that this Red Cross bill has been prescribed by other countries. Since many amendments follow this amendment, I am obliged to give only a brief explanation, because the position of the Serbian Radical Party is that the Red Cross of Serbia cannot exercise public authority, as well as carry out public-interest tasks, because this is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia should do through the competent ministry, precisely because it is financing and is on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So, unlike many of the situations where we criticise the Minister of Health, we now believe that, independently of the person who runs this ministry, he should be in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. It's just a different concept, although I can see that a colleague is not interested in listening to the opposite attitude, but it's his business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23084	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23085	Here, we continue the second day; "The Marathons are running an honorary circle", could be called this session, with all the characteristics that are contained in that section. What we said in the principle debate, for which we didn't have enough time, is that we won't vote for such an imaginary Red Cross bill. We haven't been able to be clear enough to explain, because of the lack of time, which is why we're doing it. Now that it's an opportunity, we might be able to sort things out. In addition to working unnecessarily on Saturdays and Sundays, when we bring a package of five laws from the health field, three of which are systemic, for which DOS government had five years to bring them in time and in normal procedure, with the consensus of the profession, I can't take another impression, which is yesterday, that if we adopt what we heard from the health insurance law promoter, in today's Serbia we deny the right of the citizen to choose his doctor. Serbia is a country we say is a democratic country. In that country, a citizen can choose a political party, he can choose a bank, a TV program, he can choose almost anything, but he can't choose a doctor for his own money, because the possibility of him being identified as his private physician is excluded, so that he can be compensated in private. Another strange thing that I have left as a striking impression is that the concept of a private physician involved in a good system doesn't collapse and that system, especially if you have a clearly defined package and if you have regulated how insurance companies should work. But let me get back to this. It's strange to us why there's been a change of law. In fact, what doesn't make it clear to us in principle? First, what is the Red Cross of Serbia? We understand that he is a member of the above, which is the community of Serbia-Montenegro. We do not understand what is a member of the Serbia-Montenegro community, the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro. It's known that there are three organizations that interfere strangely. Now we don't know what we're a member of. There is an International Committee of the Red Cross, which has existed since 1863, and there are members of 80 countries. There is an International Federation of the Red Cross, which includes 180 and several organizations. In the end, there's a Red Cross movement. By this law of yours, you did not clearly distinguish whose member you are, through that body above - the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro. That the matter is not quite harmless, it is quite clear, but by the fact that 80 members of the International Committee of the Red Cross, which has a completely different seat, are a completely different purpose than the Federation of the Red Cross. We also know what these purposes are. These are the purposes to help and intervene in the event of war conflicts, to help detainees, to insist on human rights. We understand that there is an organization that unites this, so it calls itself a movement, but it's not clear in this legal project of yours at all. The principled attitude of the SRS, which he expressed in the previous presentation, is that the Red Cross should exist, should be a humanitarian organisation, to help the state, we have nothing against, but should not be given public authority, because it is then transferred to responsibility. The state must be responsible for the key problems it wants to deal with and the Red Cross. In your answer, you say this: the seven basic principles of the Red Cross adopted in '65. For years, we are obliged to transfer powers. Then we went to see those seven principles. It wasn't hard for us to read too, to see: 1st humanity; 2nd Impartity; 3rd neutrality; 4th Independence - Independence; 5th Voluntary Service; 6th Unity - Unity; 7th Universality. You must have come from this independence - independence and you've stuck to it. Let's see what that principle of independence says. It looks - the movement is independent. So he's independent. National associations, since they're auxiliaris, humanitarian services, since they're an auxiliary body, they know what an assistant is, is not an administrative body, so you're helping, there's no public authority. He says, since it's an auxiliary body for the government's humanitarian activities, it falls under the law. That's not controversial. We have the law, we regulate his activity. He says - but he must always remain autonomous, not independent. The Duke's is an autonomous province, but it's not independent. And this clause here says the same thing -- an autonomous, not an independent organization. You're mistranslated or you don't know those terms. He says this, too, we have to be quite clear, that there must be one balance nice, balanced, that all of this is brought into harmony and order. Of course, I didn't just hang on to this, this would be a very lame explanation when you read, but I went to further clarification, theoretically, in detail, of this principle. There's that too, you can find it nice. It's about autonomy, not independence. Why autonomy? That he makes his own decisions, but he's not independent. What you're saying as financial independence, that's not all we're thinking. I want to tell you why we don't feel that we need the powers for which the state has to answer to be transferred to the back of the Red Cross. It's unnecessary, let them do their activity, we don't mind, be funded from the budget. We never object that the budget will separate that item and we do not object against all those activities that it will do, but we do not want it to be responsible. You will see in later opinions and articles where it comes to a ridiculous situation that too much authority wants the legislator to give it to him. In one of the later members, we'll talk about it. It is even mandatory for legal entities or individuals to provide information to the Red Cross in their activities, which are of interest to carry out activities from public authority. There's an official business secret. Why are people obliged to reveal what they do and how they do and what they do and how much traffic they have? You can't make them. You're now giving something to the Red Cross, and a concept of these public powers, which is the sole jurisdiction of the state. The state should not have that jurisdiction, except in exceptional circumstances, such as natural disasters, such as war conflicts. Why are these 188 members of the 80 movement not members of the International Committee of the Red Cross? They don't trust much in this organization, because mostly, where that organization appeared, they weren't always citizens satisfied with the activities. A representative of this organization... If you remember that shot from Vukovar, Sljivancan and a gentleman, where there's a very unpleasant conversation with an elevated tone, they're representatives of these organizations. I don't know if it's completely clear what we wanted, I don't know, we can open up a debate, which is why Mr. Secretary is here, too. If we're already leading a united, and as I say detrossed, debate on a very important set of health laws, this is an opportunity to exchange views. In Article 2, I pointed out that, a literary solution was given, so it is said: "The Red Cross aims to ease human suffering"; so you suffer further, but it will be easier for you, we are with you. It's a moral category. First, you can't measure the suffering, you can't quantify it, you can only use descriptive terms to express yourself about it, and then, how are you going to come to make it easier or not to end it? I guess we should... There's one more thing. This article, which is full of things, says, what bothers us – performs its activities, related to achieving the objectives and tasks of the Red Cross, in accordance with international contracts and rules adopted. What does that mean? We don't know what it is. You have to be taxing: that, that, and that, and then we say -- that's right, that should have the law. You, I don't know why he took it, so you prescribed some principles. If you're talking about goals, if we're part of the movement now, let's agree. So it's part of the movement and it's clearly defined, but the movement has four strategic goals since 2002. If this is your modern law... I don't want to read you what your goals are. I don't want to translate. He's standing right here in front of me. You've been obliged to write four strategic goals here, not like this one galatis of everything and everything, in which it's very difficult to cope and I think a lot of verbalism is unnecessary. Where are your four strategic principles behind the movement and which it adopted in 2001? That's what I'm asking you, and this isn't personal to anything like this. So this is not a criticism for criticism, this is a conversation about principled things. I appreciate what counterpart Kristin tried to explain, respect his attitude, and he thinks so, and we think so. A colleague, Cvetanovic, pointed to a major problem. We'll maybe talk about him a little bit more. Blood transfusion, where did we come from? We now have a drop in blood donation, we have threats from blood donors, who threaten not to give blood, not from the Uzice area where it started as a flame to spread between donors, but now you have in Novi Sad and read the press. The minister says he quotes the press. Who am I going to quote? I don't have any other information. You have more information, it's easier for you, and we're informing ourselves from the means of public information. I wouldn't judge the press if she wasn't good and she was a bad source. Civilised society doesn't know other sources, better. I'm not saying they're perfect. That print is often shared between us in the yellow press, with right or no reason, but please, we have no other way of informing ourselves and don't mind us. If it were more transparent, as you like to say, what the government and government are doing, then we probably wouldn't have reached for the press. We know again that you hold press conferences, that you use these media, that it's your way of communicating with the audience, with the people. Or maybe you're saying there are similar or inappropriate. There's nothing I can do to help. So, the Serbian Radical Party, for these reasons, is against defining the Red Cross, and not against the Red Cross, is not against funding the Red Cross. We don't want them to be held accountable, and we don't want any distractions going through everything and everything, movement, Federation, committee, bringing in something we don't like here. Maybe later I'll tell you what it is that we don't like.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23086	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Zoran Krasic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 6 and 6. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23087	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the beginning of today's work, the President of the Assembly has come to us as if we are a humanitarian organization, so we have come because we are people of good faith. No, it's because we've been imposed on such a agenda, because the president of the assembly and the majority of parliament misjudged that all of this could end by Monday when they plan to adopt the budget, because you don't work out of the assembly majority and the president of the assembly or in a business like this, how bad it is that you adopt it. Then the president complained that some newspapers said the president of the assembly was sitting almost alone in the assembly hall, reading the amendments. Someone wrote that this is how the Assembly adopts the laws. Then the president said, he thought it would go undetected, that he was almost alone in the O.R., reading the amendments, because the decision of a parliamentary group did not continue to discuss the amendments. That's just not true. The parliamentary group whose amendments are covered by the SRS parliamentary group. It was in that night two days ago when we worked late here, when there were only five MPs in the hall when there were no ministers. He took a walk in jeans and an easy sweater, so he went to change and didn't come back. We informed the public who did not sleep at that time that for this reason we no longer want to participate in the work, because the work is completely unthinkable. This is just for the truth. As regards the amendment to Article 7 which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, Article 7 speaks of the fact that the Red Cross of Serbia is entrusted with the exercise of the following public powers and is then listed: the launch, organisation and implementation of or participation in regular and extraordinary solidarity actions in the Republic to help endangered persons and victims of natural, environmental and other accidents, armed conflicts; the training of citizens who are voluntarily organised to carry out civil protection activities; the organisation, training and preparation of first-aid teams, hygienic and epidemiological protection, the care of injured and sick; the gathering and organisation of voluntary blood donors, as well as the establishment of conditions for granting recognition to voluntary blood donors. So, in four points, it's quite broadly listed which jobs and powers are entrusted to the Red Cross, and we've suggested that this whole member be deleted, because this member, as well as some of the members we've also proposed, is in college with the first position of the first member. I am therefore particularly surprised that the amendment of Goran Cvetanovic, which had slightly different arrangements for the first position, also deleted the second and third positions that are in collegiate with the first, because if the Red Cross is a humanitarian, independent, non-profit and voluntary organisation established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, an integral part of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro, that is fine, but all of this remains completely unnecessary. If it is a humanitarian, independent, non-profit and voluntary organization, then all that is placed in the jurisdiction of the Red Cross in this law cannot be in accordance with that attitude. Then you had to change that first term so that you could completely regulate the existence, work and function of the Red Cross or bring the whole law into line with that definition, which is, of course, more logical. You say you do not accept this amendment for the reasons you stated when you explained the amendments to Articles 3 and 6. I will read only two parts of the government's argument, to show the indifference of the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the Red Cross: "Besides the reasons set out in the reasons for the amendment to Article 1, the reason for trusting the public authority of the Red Cross of Serbia is that the Red Cross of Serbia has been trained professionally and has built capacity to exercise public authority in an efficient and economical way than the state authorities that would have had to form special authorities." This just isn't true. There are state authorities, there is a government, there is a resolution ministry, there are people employed in that ministry. Will a group of people from that ministry be doing this job that you predicted would do the Red Cross and charge those services, because you say that the Red Cross will work more efficiently and economically than the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This is worrying. I guess the government of the Republic of Serbia should be the most efficient, and certainly economical, to take care of its citizens. This isn't as good as you wrote it, and it's especially scary if you really think it is. When you explained Article 1 you said, among other things, that the Red Cross is the auxiliary body of the humanitarian authorities and can therefore exercise the public authority entrusted to him by the state. This, Minister, can't do this. It's simply not possible to regulate the work of the Red Cross. We, unfortunately, have had bad experience in the work of the Red Cross so far, primarily because of the most terrible fact that about a million citizens from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska had to leave their hearths. Most of them have passed or stayed in Serbia and, unfortunately, any of these people living in Serbia today can tell you the saddest story of the Red Cross relationship, or people who have been hired and employees of the Red Cross, about many abuses. It was written about it, there was talk about it, and it was probably, among other things, because it wasn't well regulated at the time, and you, in the manner of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, are proposing another law, and yesterday I was telling you about that law... By the way, I can't accept it, nor can I understand your reasons for not allowing citizens to choose their own doctor for their own money. It's something I've been listening to comments about this morning when I came here and I think it's a very bad move for you. When I talked about that law yesterday, now about this, and I'm talking to all your colleagues, we can't think of it as an accident anymore. Intentionally, you're going through the wrong laws of parliament so that whoever is applying them could abuse them and abuse them through these jobs and through all the jobs you're predicting for the sake of a criminal act. There's no other explanation. If you do not accept such reasonable amendments, legally clean and clear, then I really don't understand what else might be a motive for you to do exactly what you're up to and not to be allowed to explain that it's not good, that it's not good for the citizens of Serbia either. We'd be the happiest if the Red Cross didn't have much work to do. These terrible years have passed and all those people who have passed through Serbia, but today we have a second wave of those who were born here or those who came in the meantime, it takes a lot of humanity, human people, to help unfortunately a large number of Serbian citizens. I remind you that 20% of Serbian citizens are poor, another 30% is on the verge of poverty. So, 50%, half of Serbia's population is in a situation where he needs humanitarian aid in one form or another. So what do we have from real humanity in Serbia? We have that Karic humanitarian number 9694; indeed, every citizen when he sees that ad, if his mobile phone is in his hand, turns that number when he sees that some child needs help for some operation, that in any way the normal conditions of life are possible, for difficult health reasons. Then, of course, it is learned that Karic is taking a good part of the profit from that number, that he also cheats on Serbian citizens. Or, he participates in various humanitarian organisations through his Stajkovec and the lady, I can't remember what it's called, with two last names, but I remember how in the election campaign she told Serbian citizens that the euros were harvested on fruit trees in Grocko; then they participate in humanitarian actions. And why not participate, when Karic takes 7,000 euros a day from the citizens of Serbia and out of it doesn't split a million dollars for some humanitarian purposes, but gathers others as human as he does. Why am I saying all this? Because many of these actions are being led under the auspices of the Red Cross and then, of course, we question the functioning of such a Red Cross, or those people who work with such "humanitarians". I hope you agree with this, Minister, because this is indeed true. You should never have predicted such an opportunity to cross the Red Cross before... So then Karic will organize with the Red Cross that the Red Cross organises an education on some subject from the humanitarian field and people will pay for it, and then he will share it again with someone from the Red Cross. So, the Red Cross must be and remain a humanitarian, voluntary and nonprofit organization, and that can be done if all these members we have suggested are deleted. So, we did not erase all the proposed members, not to be confused, but only those who in fact lead the Red Cross into a situation that tomorrow, by applying this law, we read in the paper – abuse of this, abuse of this, embezzlement of this one, embezzlement of this one, and it would be very scary to hear that the Red Cross, or someone who is employed in the Red Cross embezzles some money, etc. Humanity in action should be shown when it is really necessary. These days, unfortunately, we have read all over the newspaper for this boy Mark from Zemun who needs 300,000 euros, and some hundreds of thousands of euros are needed by January or February of the month, until he becomes an adult, in order to get in line for the operation. That's where you're supposed to show your so-called. humanitarians. You know, those who take so much money from this people need at least where it's necessary to get your money back. Of course, in such situations, it is evident what this Serbian people are, what they are like. Indeed, citizens themselves are human and they help as much as they can, with 10 dinars, with 100 dinars, and whoever really can doesn't have it in that situation. This is how it's been. It's like this. It's like this. So, Minister, I hope that with all these arguments I have convinced you that you should accept this amendment and leave the Red Cross to be a truly humanitarian, voluntary, non-profit and independent organization, as you predicted it, because we will read very quickly what you neither need nor this government nor that future government nor the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23088	The word is a Messenger of the people, and only by order are we, Miroljub Maric, and the messenger of the people is Zivodarka Dacin. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, First People's MP, Zivodarka Dacin, the authorised representative of the SPS, I'm sorry, because I didn't really see you come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23089	Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, to say the least, I'm shocked after all these words I've heard about the most qualitative and only true humanitarian organization, which is the Red Cross of Serbia with all its branches, by the circuit board through the municipal organisations of the Red Cross. I have reported on this amendment to say that there are two totally different concepts here and that this is why the SPS parliamentary group cannot vote for any amendment submitted by the Serbian Radical Party. I understand both their attitude and their policy, because they have followed the whole of the law in relation to their attitude and it simply stems from one another. Here, therefore, colleagues of Radeta are proposed to virtually delete the public powers provided for in Article 6, and I will later speak on the next amendment a little more about it. I would absolutely agree that the Red Cross of Serbia is the way the government has explained... For the sake of the public, I would like to read once again the reason for the refusal of this amendment – that the Red Cross of Serbia has been trained professionally and has built capacity to exercise public authority in an efficient and more economical way than the state authorities, who would have to form special organs and bodies, to materially train them and organise special education for them. I really resent and think that maybe all these amendments and stories like this wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been a merger debate and that the Red Cross Bill was here on the agenda in May and June, when we got it, because obviously, this is an issue that absolutely deserves the attention of all of us and the citizens of Serbia who have been and that in the last 10, not 15, 100 years met with this organization and absolutely no one can ever say that the Red Cross was not the first in the place where it was supposed to be. I won't go back much, but it's not a waste to say – both during the war and while the refugees were waiting for the first ones on checkpoints, who took care of refugees, the first ones who later cared about displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija were not professionals in the basic organisations of the Red Cross, gentlemen dear, but volunteers, and therefore the most powerful fair organization this country has. You know, power is power, but honor is honor. The government is politics, and the honor is all volunteers and professionals who work in the organization of the Red Cross. When I say politics, I won't say that she can't be honorable, but these are things that shouldn't be politically colored, gentlemen dear. Please, we insult anyone who knocks on the door of a municipal organization every day. Here's just one example: the last events in Vojvodina. We are all very excited here, we have done everything we can to help, and, thank God, these days we have seen this happen, when it comes to all these floods that took place in Central Banat, Yasa Tomic, Međa; of course, the Serbian Radical Party has contributed there. Who was the first to provide help? Who was the first to respond to this situation? Believe me, the Red Cross province organization with all its municipal organizations and their volunteers. It was only a day after the Executive Greater Vojvodina asked for help on how and what to do to help these areas with threatened floods. Gentlemen, when that people turned around, go, ask them, talk, when they had nothing to eat, the municipal organization of the Red Cross of Kickinda, and I'm proud of it, she came and she's already brought the bread trucks. Ask if this is true what I'm talking about. Ask if it's true when it was the last earthquake, where the epicenter was in Mionica, who was the first to come out and who helped these people. Ask what happened during the war. Ask if we could survive this difficult economic, social situation if there wasn't a Red Cross organization that works the way it works. It's the only organization that's capable of calling an army of thousands and thousands of people to really help unhappy people. I really can't accept it, because that's how I felt, that here in any way in a negative context is talking about these people. You know, we can all love someone, we don't love individuals whether we respect them or not. In every grain, there are dolls, and if there are those who have sinned, and they work professionally in any organization of the Red Cross, my God, there are executive and judicial authorities, so let them decide. But we're generalizing that tomorrow we're going to read in the paper that there's been an abuse because the Red Cross organization has public authority in these affairs, it's absolutely not true. This is a small but significant law. This is a law for which all municipal organisations, the circuit organisation and the Red Cross of Serbia and all those citizens who can't live without these organisations. I think this is one of the few laws that would deserve to be adopted with as few stories and as few comments as possible, if we think of the well-being of all those who are right at the border or better to say below the limit of social being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23090	Replica, the People's Messenger of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23091	I really don't know why I shocked my colleague. She's really said a lot of things here that might shock her. First of all, I don't know where you came up with the idea that there would be no debate about this law and there would be no amendment if it wasn't for this package in a united debate? When was it on the agenda of some law that the Serbian Radical Party didn't have its position, its amendments and that we didn't talk about these amendments? That's really amazing, and you shouldn't have allowed yourself that conclusion, colleague. None of us, I, nor our colleagues who used to say anything bad about the idea of the Red Cross, about the organization of the Red Cross, but about some people, about certain things that happened within the Red Cross actions we are and we will talk about. No one has the right to hide behind it. You say – if someone did something wrong, there are state authorities. Of course they are, but no one has the right to hide behind such a humanitarian organization that they can do whatever they want and say – no one can criticize me, I am an activist, or this is not about activists but about those paid people from the Red Cross. Does that mean we can't criticize a doctor if he's taking a bribe, because he took an oath, because he's a humanist by vocality? Does that mean we shouldn't have made a decision yesterday to allow that judge's arrest, because my God, he took an oath, he has to be used by law. My colleague, dear, you have a completely wrong approach. You've set a lot of examples here where the Red Cross did react as you say. You said you were glad that even the Serbian Radical Party reacted in Jasa Tomic and Međi. For your information, and I'm surprised you don't know, the Serbian Radical Party first built houses and the first houses to be built by the Serbian Radical Party in Jasa Tomic, Međa, and Leskovac in one village, etc. I'm going to give you a very scary example from the Red Cross. Ask the people I talked about here, and now I'm going to tell you specifically, when they moved from Republika Srpska to the Republic of Serbia, ask them who charged them, and then the stamps were, like, 10 marks a cup of tea in Kuzmina, dear colleague, people with the Red Cross sign. That doesn't mean it's not a good idea, the Red Cross, the humanitarian organization. Of course it is and we're not talking about it, we're talking about people who abuse it and talk about a bad law that creates conditions for even more of these things to be abused. We are saying that it is necessary to pass a clear, concise, precise law - the Red Cross humanitarian, non-profit, voluntary organization, without public authority, without the possibility that several people handle a lot of money in this way because it is a broad organization. Of course, the Red Cross activists are mostly honest and honest people, but I would also remind you of those who opened stands and sold humanitarian aid intended for refugees and exiled Serbs from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Unfortunately, I'm a lot of things, I won't say it myself, but the members of my closest family were in that group of people and a lot of things quite reliable and quite accurate and you don't have the right to speak. I don't mind if you oppose my position, the position of the Serbian Radical Party, but not the way you said it – that even the Serbian Radical Party helped Jasa Tomic, so that we don't talk about this if it didn't come into the package, so we obstruct, we don't know what we're doing to Predrag Markovic, which he put into a package of five laws and that's why we're talking about the Red Cross. So, dear colleague, you've completely misread me, and the way you've said it, it leads me to doubt that you've even done it on purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23092	The word is "Live Dacin," according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23093	I'm not used to it, nor do I want to enter any replicas of this nature. It's not true that I said that, you misunderstood me, and you want to potentiate it politically again. So, I didn't say that it shouldn't have been discussed in the package so that you wouldn't have submitted the amendments, but rather, that the individual law had to have its place in June of the month and that all of us, first of all, were to talk about it in principle, and then in particular, because then it would probably take a much less general principle story to be in particular. What you're saying is that I said "even the SRS" -- I belong to people who, as you understand it, can't even imagine. All those who know me well, because I welcome every single person, every political party that in any way shows its humanity and concern for our loved ones who are in an accident, whether they are in our country or outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23094	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23095	Dear colleague Dacin said she was shocked by what she heard. The two of us, the three of us, I don't know who the shock is and what shocking words are, I don't get it, and I can't be completely accurate. Based on what you said the position of the Serbian Radical Party is about to be such that it is wrong, that we do not support Red Cross actions as a humanitarian organisation, it is not true and do not twist the basic idea. We recognize the Red Cross as an organization. We ask for a clear interpretation of his jurisdiction, his goals and tasks, according to the internationally adopted principles we have read to you here. Read the government's explanation, it calls for this document, and the document makes it clear that it's an auxiliary and autonomous organisation and we've only intervened so much. Why and where are you shocked? We're just saying that there should be no current failures that have occurred in practice and that we will talk about later, and we think that the state must be responsible for the important problems that concern the health of our citizens, concerning the organisation of the rescue service. You can't give public authority to a water and mountain rescue organization, just that organization. The state has to stop to be responsible; we agree that they may be working extravagantly, that they may be doing more than extraordinary. Therefore, the SRS is not against the Red Cross, it is not against the humanitarian organisation, it is not against humanitarian function; it is to be the Deputy Authority of the Government, it is to be funded by the Government, but not to be independent, because it is not and can be difficult. What is most important in the whole thing, if you look at the reasons for the reasons why the law was passed, the promoter says so – to bring our legislation in line with the revision of international regulations. That's the first one. Then he says, secondly, to regulate the functioning of the Red Cross of Serbia. Only one forgets, when it puts it first, that there is still the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, that we still have the organisation of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro, which is responsible for interstate arrangements. In this way, the indirect legislator destroys the state, the state community in the form it is in and as long as we do not know. For these reasons alone, we make it clear – we are absolutely not against the Red Cross and all the activities it is carrying out, but it must define the responsibility more precisely, which is the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23096	The word has a folk MP Goran Cvetanovic, has a replica, he says, in one sentence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just to resolve this misunderstanding, given that I had the longest exposure, and I'm assuming that Zivodarka Dacin was shocked by my exposure. I don't think the honourable Serbian Radical Party MPs Verica Radeta and Mr. Paja Momchilov interpreted you correctly. You are shocked because you support the government of the Republic of Serbia, whose health minister accidentally spent 300 million dinars, so I really don't think this relationship between us and you is controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23098	National MP Miroljub Maric, please, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23099	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is obviously a lot of political charge in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to compromise with colleagues and colleagues who are undeniably highly experienced politicians and much more experienced than I am. I'd like to go back to the law. On the occasion of the amendment to Article 7, I would like to say that the G17 plus party will vote against Article 7 being deleted. I want to say from three aspects all the best and most affirmative as far as the Red Cross of Serbia is concerned. First of all, as a doctor, I have participated in many Red Cross actions as an activist, I am a voluntary blood donor and I am a participant in the war in Kosovo, where, in addition to the great problems we had in the sanity and our army at the time, it was unable to provide us with large resources and material, sanitaryly and others that we needed in the two surgical teams that I led, undisputedly that the Red Cross had very much helped us. I don't think we should erase this -- public powers, which actually have the seal of a long-standing quality work of very responsible and very honorable and proud people who are activists of the Red Cross. It's normal that I have to agree with those who say there was a crime and a failure. In every grain there are weeds, as our people say. I think this bill, which intends to arrange for the Red Cross to work even better and better, is not in charge of dealing with crime and failures that will be in the future work of the Red Cross, but are not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23100	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Health and Family has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23101	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, this is the amendment of counterpart Veroljub Stevanovic, who is not there, which reads - the popularization of voluntary blood donation and, in collaboration with the services and health institutions for blood transfusions, participates in organising actions of voluntary blood donation. This applies to the practical and voluntary giving of blood being within the scope of a member’s section on public authority. I had the exact same amendment, just maybe some other order of words. That is why, and since I have no problem which MP from which political options will submit the amendment, I have withdrawn mine. The SPS parliamentary group will vote for the amendment of counterpart Veroljub Stevanovic. Why? Yesterday at the end of the working day, the minister said that in all these laws that are on the agenda today, we are actually moving forward. I really wish that were the case, but if that's the case, then why in this part of it are we taking a step back? What are the arguments that contribute to what we say today? First, now in the current law of Serbia there is also that voluntary blood donation is their motivation, practical public authority and that will apply until we adopt this law, unless we adopt this amendment as well. Should we do something to make any new law worse; if it doesn't get better, then let us not change what stands. I want to say, and this has existed in this law since 1979, and also in federal law, this still belongs to public authority. If all these laws are to be harmonised, as it stands in explanation, with federal laws, then it would be logical to end it. First of all, I have to say that we have jobs that are entrusted to the Red Cross, and they're trusted through volunteers who and how they work and do this education, and they, for sure be, go to school, work organisations, because the real basic national goal of every country, including ours, is that there's enough blood and that all the sick and the poor can help. We know that about 4% is an ideal percentage of the population that every country tends to have voluntary blood donors. In our country, on average, that percentage is way below. I have to say this time that the percentage is over 4% only in the AP Vojvodina. Of course, in the principle of solidarity, it was never a problem, that blood was provided to the one who really needed it. Since 1954, there have been trained volunteers, who have been tasked with training, educating, and speaking primarily to young people, as well as those who have never faced such problems, how humanly willing it is to give blood. Believe me, on the Day of Voluntary Blood Givers, which is May 11th, usually turns on, at least I'm talking experience from my middle, from kickinda, some high school. These are young people who are 18 years old then, which is mostly the fourth grade of high school, who for the first time voluntarily give blood. Ask them who the most influenced them, who did the right motivation to volunteer for the first time their blood. Believe me, they're Red Cross activists, and above all their peers. It's not just voluntary giving of blood action that the Red Cross keeps going on and on, day to day, and it's in the interest of all those who need that blood. There are many other activities and actions that the Red Cross leads. There is another positive moment in all of this, which is that it animated young people and that through its workshops and through their education they are making that army of volunteers who must never disappear in any highly developed country, not us. For all things, we really believe that the amendment of fellow Members Veroljub Stevanović should be voted on, at least not to change the situation already in place in the 1979 Law, which still applies, because that way we will not take a step backwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23102	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23103	A colleague, Veroljub Stevanović, submitted an amendment to Article 7. Otherwise, in Article 7(4), it is said that the Red Cross is entrusted with the exercise of the following public powers, which means, as regards blood transfusions, that is, the problems of "gathering and organising voluntary blood donors, as well as establishing conditions for granting recognition", etc. Col. Veroljub Stevanović gave a slightly wider definition – the popularization of voluntary blood donation and, in collaboration with services and health institutions for blood transfusions, took part in the organisation of voluntary blood donation actions. There is nothing to object to the amendment given by MP Stevanovic, but this is an opportunity to say that whatever was entrusted to the Red Cross in the area of voluntary blood donation, it will not help, because in the past few years, the Ministry of Health has made some moves that have voluntarily given blood back. Nothing means popularizing blood donation among citizens, if the state does some of its solutions, systemic measures, the organisation of the transfusiological service demotes people to voluntary blood donation. We Serbian Radical Party MPs, represented by the Health and Family Committee, have indeed waged a difficult war with the health minister, because it has started reforming the transfusiological service even though the relevant law has not yet been passed. Regardless of the law has not been passed, it is clear that the health minister's intentions are to organise the transfusion service so that Serbia becomes an addictive country for products of fractionated plasma products, that Serbia will become an importer of these preparations, instead of being able to carry on producing these extremely expensive preparations on its own. Among other things, the organisation of the transfusiological service is going in such a way that strict centralization is being carried out. Practically, only centres will exist in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. You know that old story about these other transfusion services being used only to collect blood, to transport them to these three centers, where they will be further processed. Then, according to the Minister, the daily needs of medical institutions would be met by sending blood products back to health institutions. There's so much flaw in that concept that it's really too much to say about it right now. What's scariest is that the Institute of Blood Transfusion is incapacitating itself for the production of blood plasma products. As I said, these are extremely expensive preparations, and the European Agency for Reconstruction is timely, citing some of the basic objectives involved in transfusiological service reform, saying that Serbia must become able to produce these plasma products. She calculated the need to invest in the twom-euro blood transfusion institute in the necessary equipment to raise the production to the needed level, to meet domestic needs. Instead, the ministry is doing nothing about it and therefore Serbia will slowly become fully dependent on the import of these preparations. What is shocking, now that I use the word that my colleague Dacin used, it is estimated that Serbia will need 11m euros per year for importing these preparations. It's only because the Ministry won't invest two million euros in our blood transfusion institute in the necessary equipment. Despite my good intentions as my colleague, Stevanovic, I had the need to say that the Red Cross, no matter what its powers are, has been defined, however described in the area of blood collection, that Serbia does not have roses, the prospects are dreary, if politics in this area of the root does not change.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23104	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23105	My party colleague, Nedeljkovic, explained what Mr. Stevanovic wanted. Let's get things straight. He saw all the absurdity of the situation to now be the responsibility for blood collection transferred to the Red Cross, which should remain a voluntary humanitarian organization. He then said that not only can they be responsible, but he says so – together, a red cross with services and health institutions for blood transfusions, to participate in these actions. So he wanted to reconcile what we want to fully define. The state is responsible for such an important matter. Why? The government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for health. Blood transfusions, the provision of sufficient amounts of quality blood and blood derivatives is vital, strategic, state and health. Therefore, there is the responsibility of a couple of excellencies of the government. It can help whoever you want, and it's welcome, but responsibility must rest on the government. The minister's gone again and we can't have a good debate right now. Our ministers don't respect the Assembly. Well, I thought I'd commend him that he is one of the few, besides Mr. Justice Minister Stojkovic, who holds the debate with the MPs. But the way it is, we have to work. There's been a lot of dust about the blood transfusion project. Believe me, I've come to a very awkward situation. Mr. Rodoljub Sabic's cabinet informed me, asking me to receive this letter, that there is a letter of the following content, says: "Respected, under the Law on Access to Information of General Interest, we have sent a request to the President of the Republic of Serbia Boris Tadic, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and the President of the Health Committee and the Family of the Assembly to provide us with information on what they have done to prevent the use of funds intended for voluntary blood donation and attempt to commercialise the blood of voluntary donors." Then he says, "In the legal deadline provided for by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica and the chairman of the Health and Family Committee have not delivered any response. The President-in-Office of the Republic's Council is a clear example of avoiding the provisions of the Law on the availability of information of public importance (the letter attached) because donors are not interested in the position of office and secretary, but in the honesty and personal position of the democratically elected president in the protection of the institution - voluntary blood donation. "A serious criticism has been made at the expense of the president of the Health Committee, that person is me, that I did nothing within the legal time limit to respond to their demands. The fact is, on October 17th, a letter was sent, which was not entrenched by the regular route, with no seal that it was being seduced. I found that letter. He says: "Respected, according to the law on the availability of information of general importance, Article 5(2), we demand that you provide us with full documented information from which we can see from which measures and steps you have taken under our letter of 16 August, in which we have publicly indicated the misuse of European aid funds and the unequivocal management of donation funds in the context of the project of the transfusiological service reform financed by the public funding of European aid. Since voluntary blood donation, the foundation of the health care of the population of Serbia, these procedures are seriously threatened, and you in our area and the divided international relations, the information must be made available to the public. "It is true that in August of the month it was addressed to the Committee's address and my personal name a letter which was not re-enacted neatly, regularly. I found that letter, too. The point is, it is said this way, and this is bold: "We ask all the competent institutions of this country, public figures and political parties and NGOs to prevent, in their domain of work and authority, corrupt interests in healthcare from voluntary giving, and in their midst, examine the state of giving and help prevent persecution that has been established by the management of the Health Centre of Užica, as well as institutions that cover the entire Zlatibor County. "This was signed by the Vice-President of the Committee of Volunteers of the Blood of the Zlatibor County and by the chairman of the Committee of Voluntary Donors of the Municipality of Požega Mr. Lazar Panic. What made me most of all talk about this problem is that I now have a letter sent to Miss Beniti Ferrero Valdner from the European Commission, where there are three signatories: Mr Fadil Delic, blood donor 110 times, Mr Vladan Popovic, blood donor 115 times, Nova Varoš and Lazar Panic, blood donor 76 times. I don't want to read the letter, the letter is extensive and addressed... When He had guided him, Ciprian. So, the person in charge of health at the European Commission and the Union sent Miss Benito Ferrero Valdner this letter and said she was in her jurisdiction. What does that mean? This means that she is in charge of international relations and human rights violations. The correspondence is conducted between voluntary donors of the country's blood, and those who are the most prominent voluntary donors, and European institutions, without doing anything here, it is not allowed. I'm also carrying part of the responsibility that I may not have hired more. The board has made clear conclusions. I have nothing to add. The Commission, multilateralally, is composed of a free choice of Committee members based on discussions and opinions carried out by certain people from the transfusiological service. I thought the Committee's activity was over and we don't have the legal authority and the ability to do anything more. But what the press writes again, I return to the means of public information – blood donors threatening with a boycott. Well, then, not to read everything I've got here. I'm only interested in what the problem was, why the gentlemen addressed Rodoljub Sabic and why they accused me as president of inactivity. Here is what they were looking for: the names of authors and participants in implementing the transfusiological service reform, which has been paid by means of assistance to the citizens of Europe for four years; an insight into the full content of the reform solutions that have been implemented for four years; thirdly, an insight into the budget lists from which we can find out which of the public office holders has been paid from the funds of the help of the citizens of Europe, and what the funds from this assistance have been spent on. So, three clear positions that have been requested. Whether they got or didn't, I don't know, probably didn't, as soon as they had to go the way of Europe. I don't think that's a good situation for our country. Just a few words to say again about this project. It's a project that's made a lot of interference and a big alarm between blood donors. The alarm has now moved from the Užica region to Vojvodina, which is absolutely not good. There is also a signator of this, a certain Mr. Pozega, who is an absolute Yugoslav record of the number of blood donations. Over 160 times a man has given blood and he's a signer and we need to take these things seriously. What's the problem? The non-transparent project, which appears to be quite burdensome and some corrupt actions, in its initial document, made it clear that the project will focus on enabling the work of a blood transfusion institution in Belgrade, which has its own blood collection plant from derivatives. Where's it stuck? First, it was stuck in moving the production of derivatives derived from blood plasma abroad, and the original solution was said that with very small investments we could train our center to do so. Another problem, a centralization that doesn't suit us, of which people from the inside are scared, and these are problems that must be clearly spoken of. If we are a democratic society, if you say transparency is important, if we really have passed a Law on the availability of public information, then these data must also be available to voluntary blood donors, including our public.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23106	The People's Messenger, Bogoljub Pejcic, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I apologize for taking my word this way, but I would like to deny writing some newspapers that I am leaving my Parliament club and declaring myself an independent MP. It's a notorious lie, and secondly, I think that the one who declares himself an independent MP is the same as having called a public tender for himself, that he's in public check, so who gives more. I would also like to warn this parliament and the citizens of Serbia that the Ship's lobby not only works in the US Congress, but also works in this House. You have seen certain MPs already advocate Kosovo's independence, so when they fail to do so, they leave the assembly. The Ship's lobby works through some extraparliamentary parties, whose dirty money is funded by the purchase of MPs. So, buying MPs to destabilise the Serbian parliament, that the government would fall, so that we would be left without a negotiating team at key times when deciding on Kosovo's fate. You've seen the radical voices being hijacked, but they're being kidnapped to psychologically shake the radicals as the largest parliamentary group. So, these extra-parliamentary parties, including the scary Shipatarian lobby that turns billions of dollars, want to negotiate a position with Marty Ahtisaari and only the Albanians from Kosovo take over with contact, without our Serbian representatives. We'll see if that's how it's gonna be Monday when we vote on the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23108	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23109	On the basis of Mr. Pejcic's mention of the Serbian Radical Party. Of course, I have no intention of replicating him in the sense that he said something wrong and that he was wrong. Of course not, but since he mentioned the SRS, I am reporting to say, i.e. to repeat what Aleksandar Vucic said yesterday about this pay phone, that indeed the MPs who are offered money, whom Bogoljub Karic offers money, and they are indeed sincerely resisting it, and it is clearly very much being talked about, and apparently it is actual, to appear, to come out for this pay phone, to warn the public prosecutor that Bogoljub Karic is trying to corrupt, to offer bribes. It's a felony, and that's what you go to jail for. I think it is the only way to get in the way of such things, to stop those who would eventually betray their party, the one on whose list they came to this parliament, and to stand in the way of this Bogoljub Karic who tried to enter parliament, even though he had no party at the time when these elections were called, did not even participate in the elections. It's a very dangerous phenomenon. If that takes hold, then there's a problem why we're even going to the election, why we're doing election campaigns in the first place. Then Bogoljub Karic can buy the entire government with so much money, and what we did then, which is why we're even dealing with politics, if someone who steals people's money, someone who steals 7,000 euros a day to degrade this parliament and ultimately the citizens of Serbia. Of course, it is not disputed that whoever accepts the invitation of Bogoljub Karic is a moral misery, a niche, as well as the one who buys them, but if we want to seriously oppose it – we Serbian radicals are uncontested to want to, I see that such a mood is at all in parliament, at least as regards those who participate in the work of this parliament, I do not claim these Tadics, because they do not have them, because they do not, I call on the MPs who were indeed in a position to give them back the money they took from the people to come out and say it publicly and that finally the public prosecutor responds according to their powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23110	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic. Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23111	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as an independent MP, I feel called by Mr. Pejcic, and I would like to say that I have nothing to do with all these stories. What I said about this speaker, about the press and about television – that I will not go into the hall to vote for the budget – I stand by it, I said that there is no need to repeat it. There is no need for you to tie me to that, and as far as Mr Kostunica is concerned, he now has a chance to team up with the right patriotic party, for the sake of Serbia's salvation. As far as I'm concerned, I've had offers to support the budget, to come in here and vote or not to vote, but I don't want to reveal it, I don't want to go into personal conflict with anyone. I only had offers to get into the O.R. when it was going to be a budget vote. Another offer I didn't have from anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23112	Does anyone else want a word on the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to talk about the amendment I filed on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, to say that we are getting calls from people and that, Mr. Minister, they are reacting to citizens, in the sense that they cannot choose their own money for their own doctor. This is quite indicative, in addition to what Serbian Radical Party MPs last night have said in the afternoon debate, that this is not a good solution in the previous health insurance law, which the debate in particular was concluded last night. It is also inappropriate, and we in the SRS parliamentary group have been talking for days about planning the work of the National Assembly, this high house, so that deadlines cannot be met in advance. You want to adopt the budget by post Monday, allegedly due to the IMF, by November 28th, and now we have to... The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party are not difficult, you can see that we are active in the morning, in the evening, we go out for a pay phone and we offer reasoned criticism of your proposals for legal solutions. It is inappropriate for everyone else to plan the work of the National Assembly in such a way. In addition, this Red Cross law of Serbia is about the adoption of the 2006 budget law. You tie it up by directing the Red Cross funding from one side to the state and the budget you are planning for 2006, and the Red Cross is projected as an auxiliary body in humanitarian work. We in the Serbian Radical Party, and the SRS MPs have told you a lot, especially Dr. Paja Momchilov, we don't mind. It is not at all controversial for us Serbian radicals. The dispute is that the Red Cross of Serbia, as part of the Red Cross of Serbia-Montenegro society and as part of the International Red Cross Movement, cannot exercise public authority. Furthermore, you refer the Red Cross to additional funding, that the Red Cross of Serbia as part of the International Red Cross Movement can find other sources of its funding. So, parallel sources of funding, on the one hand as Serbia's state, on the other hand, in carrying out the humanitarian and voluntary action that the Red Cross should take care of. In that sense, regarding these activities, the Red Cross is authorized, which you suggest part of this bill, to additional funding. Just now, Miss Radeta mentioned certain cases related to one man; so don't mind me, we in the SRS have a custom of calling events real names, so I'm going to say, but don't ask too many questions, because you're used to us using adequate names for certain phenomena. One of the biggest thieves in Serbia, a man who is in various circumstances and in a single-party system, in a socialist, or leftist system, and now allows him to rob, steal a large amount of state funds, some MPs already mention his name, of course, it is Bogoljub Karic, steal large amounts of state funds, and via "Mobtel", and through loans for the rebirth of Serbia, for Kosovo and Metohija and from other sources, announces that, if necessary, he will be a donor for the fight against corruption. He wants to enter politics to preserve his assets acquired by stealing state funds, instead of offering possibly a Red Cross to Serbia part of those funds, so that the Red Cross of Serbia can carry out its humanitarian character mission. This Article 8 states that in the exercise of the public powers laid down in Articles 6 and 7 of this Act, the Red Cross shall keep appropriate records and credentials. Of course, the amendment reads that Article 8 is deleted. In the only line of reasoning of this amendment, we have stated that we have given an explanation when submitting amendments to Article 1 of the same law. Article 2 and Article 3, which points to the reasoning of my submission amendment, says the Red Cross of Serbia is exercising public authority under the law. What law? Is this draft law on the Red Cross of Serbia or some other law? Even if this law on the Red Cross of Serbia indicates that the Red Cross of Serbia has opportunities, it can exercise public authority, it is not enough to have the authority of a state body, because in the end, what is the Red Cross of Serbia in the right sense, is it an association of citizens, is it an NGO, is the state body or is the Red Cross of Serbia a humanitarian, independent, non-profit and voluntary organisation? Already one Serbian Radical Party MP explained in detail that the Red Cross of Serbia cannot be an independent and non-profit organisation. How can the Red Cross of Serbia enjoy the help of competent state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units, which rights can be enjoyed by state authorities? Mr. Minister, you are giving too much authority to the Red Cross of Serbia. In the end, I will list some examples that I will answer to MPs who have mentioned something contrary to the views of the Serbian Radical Party, that it is not so and that they are wrong. So that the Red Cross of Serbia in Article 7 is entrusted with the exercise of the following public powers, including providing material, financial and other resources for those actions. So, are you telling the Red Cross of Serbia to introduce fees, some fees, it can't, because other than volunteering can provide financial resources. There is therefore a request, a request for legal persons, i.e. economic operators and companies, for individuals to participate in the financing of certain actions, missions carried out in that part. It can, anyone can, but in a way that is resolved by this bill that the Red Cross of Serbia can and especially has the right to do so. Furthermore, since we in the Serbian Radical Party feel that the Red Cross of Serbia should not and cannot have public authority, then it cannot even keep records and issue assurances, which is the essence of my amendment that I asked to delete Article 8. The competence and expertise of someone in the Red Cross of Serbia to issue beliefs and other public documents absolutely or almost does not exist. So there are almost no people who can give out beliefs on behalf of the state and on behalf of the state. So, in addition to not being appropriate, which is not necessary for, besides the Ministry, the authorities of the state administration, someone else to exercise this authority and issue assurances, as you stated and predicted, the Red Cross of Serbia really can't do it, it's not going and it's wrong. When it comes to people in the Red Cross of Serbia, many of them are not qualified to exercise public authority. Don't forget this either, Mr. Minister, that there are very bad experiences about the work of many committees, i.e. the organisation of the Red Cross of Serbia on Serbia's territory, as well as abuses. The Red Cross of Serbia cannot as an auxiliary body have public authority, and thus cannot keep proper records. Ms. Verica Radeta was right to point out in response to the MP Mrs. Zivodarka Dacin's many abuses and crimes, I can say openly, in the work of the Red Cross of Serbia. Perhaps Mr. Minister or colleague Zivodarka Dacin will say that Serbian radicals mention it without foundation, or if there are grounds, these are individual cases. So, the tragedy is, unfortunately, that these individual cases have many, so it became a rule of conduct in the work of the Red Cross of Serbia on municipal committees. I'm going to give an example, Mrs. Dacin, Mr. Minister, of the case where the first man of one of the Red Cross municipal organizations was held guilty. It doesn't matter that he was a member of the SPS, it could have been a man who was a member of any party, it's less important, but he was in prison because of the abuse just in the Red Cross, he was still trained to issue assurances and to exercise public authority, and he was constantly doing it in an alcoholic state. He may know, but he's not capable of doing it, he's not capable, because he's under the influence of alcohol. Of course, I don't want to list places of these phenomena, but they really do exist. This area should be regulated as appropriate to our situation, respecting all the recommendations and orders of international norms that regulate this area, but should have a measure in all of this, and this is the measure that we point out in the Serbian Radical Party; our intention is to give improvement to the appropriate solutions to this bill. That is why it is justified, Mr. Minister, to accept this amendment that I have submitted to Article 8. The draft law on the Red Cross of Serbia, as well as other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, because trust me, by accepting all other amendments, the quality of the Red Cross law will be much better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23114	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23115	I'm reporting on this same amendment. You see, he's rebelling again, so let's point one more thing to you only when it comes to public authority, if it's a voluntary organization, how can you give him something, if it's something voluntary. When it is based on the principle of volunteering, is what the task of the state administration is possible to connect with voluntary work, so to say, if it is voluntary work, and he now says – now I will, and now I will not. So that's another thing that confuses us, but I'm not answering for it. I'm reporting precisely because of what I was saying, the minister wasn't here, but, Mr. Secretary, you can ask your associates to inform you and tell you that you don't have to intervene personally and be out of this debate, because you see, we're discussing important laws, and you're not here. I read what I was accused of not doing anything about the action of voluntary blood donors asking you to give clear information on the transfusion project. You weren't here, and I won't say it again, but there's been a big problem. I said I didn't feel responsible for it, although I was attacked with a lot of ugly words that I acted irresponsiblely. I've read these appeals here, and the matter has reached the international community. I also have a letter from Benita Ferrero-Waldner from voluntary donors. We also have reports in the press that he's threatening voluntary blood donors. We've come to the point where your officers are threatening to sue voluntary blood donors, and that threatens the biggest donor we have, some Mr. Požega of Novi Sad, who's given blood 169 times, says - because of an attack on a possible lawsuit reform. I'm not making anything up. It's not a newspaper post. We talked about the newspaper not being a big deal. You serve them. You invite them to a press conference. You host them in different places, so we don't list where and how. Mr. Dinkic is taking the team with him again. Well, when you're not good with the press, why are you taking them with you? That's what Labus does. You seem to have a commission of your own that selects – these are good, these are not. But the bottom line is that your directors have allowed themselves so much insolence to persecute people who have opposed some reform solutions through this project, which are bad solutions. I don't have time to talk about it right now. That will be our parliamentary question in the end. He can't in the pleasure region be replaced by the head of the Transit Service... I'm saying that because there's one point here about blood transfusions, so I want to let you know because you weren't there. I have to explain to the Minister, he doesn't know what we're talking about. The Head of the Transfusion Service, who had the opposite opinions and was forbidden to speak, was appointed. It wasn't changed because she wasn't doing her job, which she did badly, which is reckless, because she was late for work, no, but because she had the opposite opinion. What's done? They put him in charge of the urologist. That's scandalous. What else did they do? They retired from the transfusiologist's pension so the service could work, because they were afraid that Dr. Rada would leave and not work. He can't behave like that, Mr. Minister. That's a big problem. That is why we insist, I guess, that these public authorities must be the authority of the state when it comes to blood transfusions. The state is responsible and no one else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23116	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 9th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Zivodarka Dacin and Veroljub Stevanovic. The government has not accepted this amendment. The Committee on Health and Family has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23117	Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, of course, I have throughout the law followed that fundamental idea that the popularization of voluntary blood donation and participation in the organisation of voluntary blood donation actions should be public authority for the organization of the Red Cross. Since the gathering and organisation of voluntary blood donors and motivation have entered the Red Cross program, but the programming activity is something that is limited in character, which takes some time, as in "a week of solidarity", "a child's week", "a week of the Red Cross", and this motivation is practically something that is necessary 24 hours a day to implement, so I follow through the law this thread that we continue to represent that the existing state, at least as regards public authority when it comes to voluntary blood giving, should not be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23118	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23119	I thank you, Mr. Mihailovich, although I think you could have left Mr. Paja Momchilov for a few more seconds, because it's obvious that the topic we're discussing today is extremely important. I really don't understand such a haste of the ruling coalition when it comes to a package of health-related laws. In campaigns, you're all formally saying it's one of the most important areas for you, that you will, of course, take care of it, but it seems to be one of the few areas where there's still no democracy like you promised. It is very strange, and I must repeat this, which in all other areas is true of what is the basic postulate and the basic principle – that everyone can choose for his money who he will go to and who he will use the services with – it is simply amazing that you deny such right to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to healthcare, so that a citizen cannot choose which doctor he will go to. As for the amendment to Article 10, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by MP Momir Markovic, this amendment envisions that in Article 10(2), the words "as well as their membership" should be deleted. In fact, the whole of Article 10 refers to services that can be provided by the Red Cross of Serbia, while Article 2 says: "The Red Cross of Serbia in its facilities can provide temporary accommodation and nutrition services to persons who need such a form of assistance for health or social reasons, as well as to their membership. "We from the SRS parliamentary group have proposed that these words "as well as their membership" be deleted. So, essentially, in what should be the function and activity of the Red Cross, nothing will change, or leave them with permission to provide temporary accommodation and nutrition services to persons who need such a form of assistance for health or social reasons. So what belongs to the work of the Red Cross in no way will be broken, but these words "as well as their membership" we think absolutely should be deleted, because it is unclear what was going to be done with it. In this way you practically through the law give yourself the right to sleep and eat in your own house, as you would say. If the Red Cross is a voluntary, humanitarian organization, if it's independent, and we've seen through these previous members that it's not as independent as it should be, or as much as you're declaring it, but in the good part of the Red Cross, the government is interfering, so they want to ask about this, they want to ask about it, then this could only, in our opinion, lead to some abuses. Because it is amazing that you, as a special basis, give the Red Cross the opportunity to provide food and accommodation services to its membership. The question is rightly asked whether, through possibly some symbolic membership in the Red Cross, there should be something else that should not be the work of the Red Cross, which none of us would want anyway, because I remind you that this is not about the categories of endangered persons, it is not about the unemployed, helpless, homeless, or the sick, but rather about the membership of the Red Cross. If we see, in paragraph 3, which we do not dispute, that this provision of food and accommodation services in St. 1 and 2 is not considered to be a catering activity, then it is even more doubtful what you and how you are trying to undertake under this point 2. Whether someone will remember tomorrow to make special facilities, join the Red Cross and split the people's membership cards, make a hotel, and whoever sleeps, he doesn't have to pay taxes or anything else, but he'll say – that's our member of the Red Cross, pay a daily membership fee of five dinars at the entrance to the hotel and you've finished the job. So, in one clear way, this must be separated and in the opinion of the Serbian Radical Party the ideal way would be to delete only these few words from item 2 as proposed by MP Momir Markovic. This would eliminate any confusion, eliminate the possibility of abuse. I don't see any reason why the government wouldn't accept this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23120	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23121	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 10 of the Law, it is ensured that in providing assistance to persons who need a certain kind of help, the Red Cross of Serbia can provide temporary accommodation, as well as nutrition, but that the kind of assistance needed in Articles 1 and 2 is necessary. Under Article 10(3) of the Law, these services provided by the Red Cross of Serbia do not constitute a catering activity, which would fall, above all, into taxes and other fiscal obligations. I think there is a misunderstanding by the representatives of the Ministry of Health when it comes to the amendment of the SRS, because in an explanation why the amendment is not accepted is that accepting such an amendment would increase the cost of performing the Red Cross affairs. In fact, when sending members of the Red Cross to do business, they need to ensure accommodation and nutrition. There is no doubt that this would be significantly more expensive if security were to be carried out in public facilities, not in the Red Cross facilities that already exists. At no time did the representatives of the SRS feel that members of the Red Cross of Serbia should use other apartments or accommodations, as well as nutrition in the other area and in other restaurants, but right where you defined it. We absolutely insist on erasing: "as well as to our membership", for the simple reason that members have all the rights, as well as obligations, in association with such an organisation. So they shouldn't be even inferior to others and not be able to use those services, but they shouldn't be potent, for the simple reason that I think it's too high, and thus there's the possibility of using someone just for that reason to join in having some benefits, not because they want to volunteer to do work in an organization that is primarily a humanitarian character. I think that, as you have adopted some amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, you will also have the understanding to accept this amendment, and I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23122	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23123	Thank you very much. Let me explain: if you had written here "as well as your membership hired on assignments", then it would have been another thing. When you write this general "as well as your membership", then that means anyone. Just what Mr. Sarovic was saying. We're just saying, if you want that option, you know, you say -- people hired on assignments, normally, that moment. Then that's clear. This is unclear and must not interfere with temporary accommodations both with food and with people who need social spending. That's all we wanted and that's what we're asking you to do, and you're probably not going to accept, and most of our amendments. That's already your problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23124	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic. The government, the Health and Family Committee did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I don't know why you needed this Red Cross bill, completely unnecessary for the National Assembly, which is burdened with many other problems; I don't mean the Assembly as an institution, but the citizens of Serbia who expect the Assembly to solve much more important things. And that this is not a good way to edit the Red Cross area, when you are already on your way to this solution, it is seen from the amendments submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs. From the first term, you deny yourself in both 8, and 9, and here in 10. Whether it's a directive, whether you need it or not, so you have to do everything they've ordered you to do, I really don't know. Such powers, such as Article 10, Article 4, which I ask on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to be deleted, which are now legally given to the Red Cross, are so suitable for various marifetteluks, abuses and corruption, which we have spoken of in various examples, are that these are unprecedented proportions. As on the spot, you gave them the opportunity to do whatever they wanted and to make individuals rich, as they did, and unfortunately they continued to work, most hard, the hardest time when our people had to flee their hearths from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. I remember that period in 1994 and until 1995, when it lasted so-called A blockage on the Drina and when only through humanitarian character organisations, such as the Red Cross, could be referred to as some help. At the time, my colleague, and also a good friend, a woman who is truly Serbian and who has lived and worked in Athens for many famous Greek companies and organisations, gathered together with a group of people on dozens of hats, not to be minimized, but perhaps up to 100 speedboats of various assistance for our country and its compatriots from Republika Srpska and Republika Srpska. Although one of the experts who works with children who have certain distractions, the only such expert in all of Athens, had to leave his job and his family, because, as she told me then, there is no, of course, evidence today, trust in these Red Cross thieves. I can't say that all the people who work there and run that organization are watching how and where they're going to steal and what they're going to pick up and buy themselves an apartment, a house or get rich for their own account and the bill of their family members. If this is already a phenomenon, perhaps this degree of crime in the Red Cross as an international organisation, i.e. it has a separate legal status here in Serbia, is regulated by the fact that it has been contained in Switzerland, Italy, France and other countries that you are calling for to exist in this and similar legal regulations, but the degree of theft and crime is not the same, it is here in unprecedented proportions. I remember, I was still a primary school student, our teachers and school principals had no confidence in what we as children, like all of you in the O.R., were doing, and what was reportedly going across the Red Cross. Any action, any activity that we did to help someone, human character, because today we still need children in Serbia to educate and in this direction to develop our society, we had to control and follow closely. Because ever since that Broz communist time, those who possessed the top of the Red Cross, and by sectors, by the districts, by the cities, were in those communities, as such, infamous, because people have always come with numerous objections that help has not reached them. As it is possible, then, when you yourself said that the Red Cross, as proposed by your law, is in Article 1, is non-profitable or non-profit, as you have written, an organization, that they are given the authority under Article 10, according to all views, that this is taxively listed in paragraph 4, which I am asking, on behalf of the SRS, to delete, where it is said: "Under conditions and in the way established by law, the Red Cross of Serbia may, if this does not raise questions about the exercise of public authority established by this law, provide other services to interested legal and physical persons, and especially those relating to... ". So it's a public authority given to the Red Cross, and it's a possibility that they provide services to various interested legal and physical persons that will be charged. It is a question of "1) organising and implementing the professional training of first aid lecturers, keeping records of training and issuing appropriate assurances about the professional training of lecturers", which will cost 100, 200, 500 dinars, how much do I know, but it has its tariff. "2) organising and conducting training from first aid candidates for drivers, conducting exams, keeping records and issuing assurances of the first aid test." Where are you going to get a better chance of getting a profit? These are hundreds of thousands of people who are going to ask for this, and the Red Cross is going to appear in the role of someone who can do it and will have a certificate, or legalized their business through the law. "3) organising and conducting first-aid training for persons performing safety and health care tasks", which we talked about a lot. So badly done is the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which we talked about for days with Lalovic, we still need to involve the Red Cross and the situation is complete. You'll do well to protect workers in Serbia. I have to go back again, since now dear colleague Dragoljub Anastasovski entered the O.R. when Dr. Paja Momchilov spoke about the case and the people who made heroic exploits for me and for each of you. Some of you are afraid to give your finger a drop of blood, let alone do such a human act. When we talked about the Labour Act, which was only three months ago, he went out for a pay phone and said he was proud because the hundredth time, it was then, he voluntarily gave blood to someone who needed it most, and now I'm about to let you know that he did it six more times after that. So, 106 times he gave blood and I thank him for it and congratulate him. Such kind of help and humanity in action and such behavior, that someone does it with an open heart, it's the right thing to do for the state and for the people. The fact that he is going to do the red cross and organise all sorts of things, that is, individuals, to be rich through these things that are clearly listed as profitable activity, is something that nobody only from the SRS can justify, but millions of Serbian citizens cannot justify. Especially hundreds of thousands of those who cried out for help and did not get it, although they may have been on a list, in the record, or they were told that they would get it, because they were left without their own house and had to leave their eternal hearth. They were told that they would win for collective accommodation – and there are such centres in Kragujevac and all over Serbia, now several hundred people with family members are forced to spend every night at the Technical School in northern Kosovo Mitrovica each night and this winter – for example, a new mattress. Suddenly, the new ones magically disappeared, which are part of some donation or passing through the Red Cross, people get some scraps or get nothing. You only remember cases of a major tragedy, a natural disaster that struck Yasa Tomic, when several thousand people in despair sought salvation. They just needed to get a pair of rubber boots. If they were to come now and if we were to send them a public invitation to tell us what kind of abuses happened there by the Red Cross, I believe there were, there would be no end. Then don't give them the opportunity to do more so through Article 10(4). That's pure profit. This is what certain agencies and teams do in normal countries in the world. People who didn't have a chance to see it or didn't travel to those parts could at least watch some of these videos on TV, whether documentary natures or, as their cinematographers like to put in a movie and use these specialized teams for it. This is point 4) - organising water rescue and rescue services in the mountains, conducting rescue training for those services, keeping records and issuing appropriate assurances. Is that what the Red Cross is supposed to do? We don't think it's supposed to be the Red Cross. There are many examples and many countries in the world where the Red Cross does not. The humanitarian mission and action that should be present and which in many cases is not as expressed by those who lead the Red Cross organization should serve as an example for the future, that such things do not continue to happen and that all the negative phenomena that happen are prevented. Find me in the cities of Serbia, here, to record those people who ended up in the Red Cross's leading positions, that they waited for a deep age so that they had nowhere to live and had no bread to eat. Well, there's no such thing. All people will confirm that there is no such case in all towns and municipalities in Serbia. Humanity at work. Speaking of which, I'm going to end up with what took as long behind the prison bars today, Bogoljub Karic, who would have learned here to have that possibility, but thank God and the consciousness of the Serbian citizens, he will never be able to turn from the assembly pay phone. I really want to talk about it, his alleged humanitarian mission and the theft that happens through calls through numbers that he publishes on his TV. To me, colleague Dragan Colic, our MP from Smederev, at this point, I do not have the memo, but it is an authentic file, brought about about a month and a half ago a memo from a troubled mother from Smederev, who repeatedly addressed the famous Serbian tycoon, who is not yet in prison, and should be. In fact, she sent a memo for the necessary medical intervention and asked to be helped. Imagine what they said to her from the "Karic Foundation" that they don't have the means she asked for. She asked for minimum minimums, a thousandths or a millionths of his annual earnings. Then what are we talking about? Serbia has been robbed by such people as Karic and similar to him, and we are talking about humanity in action and that people need help. They do need help, but the state is different about taking care of it. Just turn the pages of today's daily newspaper. Here, you have in the daily newspaper, I don't want to advertise them today, on the front page and the big text inside – in the Belgrade homeless shelter, for people who have nothing to eat, who don't have a roof over their heads, this year there's twice as many people who want to settle down as there was last year. Look only in cities where there are no such shelters and where the soup kitchen has been abolished, as in Kragujevac, as people live. Unfortunately, there is an increasing number of poor people and the standard of living is getting worse and worse. Those people who perhaps five years ago were able to provide themselves with a basic minimum of existence, to buy those basic provisions of life, to pay for electricity, communals, now they can't do it, because it's something that requires their three or four average salaries. And not to mention those who have no salary at all and who are on the verge of poverty and poverty and live below the poverty line, and according to the record and statistics of such is 2,400,000. Of which, ladies and gentlemen, there are 800,000 children in Serbia who do not daily eat the normal meal they deserve and who need for their age and development.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23126	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23127	With this amendment, we return to our first dilemma, that is, the dispute regarding the Red Cross, whether it can exercise public authority, as an organization that is so defined by law. There is no doubt that the state must do those jobs that are listed as public powers entrusted to the Red Cross of Serbia. The dilemma is whether these tasks can be done alone, directly through the competent state authorities or through these tasks can be entrusted to the Red Cross, and if he already trusts them to the Red Cross, whether the Red Cross can then be defined, so organized, with such powers and with such management. The State can also carry out these tasks directly through the authorities of the state administration. For example, there are countries that have appropriate ministries, no matter what they are called. There are countries where there is an emergency ministry and then there's a completely clean situation of who's responsible, who's responsible and who's possibly guilty if these jobs don't work the way they need to. How is the Red Cross internally organized and capable of performing these public powers? As for the internal organization and the way the Red Cross works, it's a very smut regulated by this law. We have article 4 – the statute of the Red Cross of Serbia. The statute is said only this: "The Red Cross of Serbia has a statute that, in accordance with the law, regulates the area, tasks, jobs and way of working its organs and services, its organisation, as well as other issues of importance for the work of the Red Cross of Serbia. "In this article, neither further in the text of the law, it is not predicted that anyone outside this organisation gives consent. It is unusual that the government does not give consent to the statute of the Red Cross of Serbia, as if the Red Cross is an NGO. So, the Red Cross of Serbia exercises public powers that the government trusts her with, and the government practically has no role, as regards some kind of surveillance, control. Here we have Article 19, as prescribed, and how surveillance of the work of the Red Cross is foreseen. Here, I will read this whole article: "The control of the work of the Red Cross of Serbia in the exercise of public authority is carried out by the authorities of the state administration in whose work the area of public authority is established is entrusted to the Red Cross of Serbia. "So nothing wider, nothing operational. In transitional and final provisions, we have Article 22: "The Red Cross of Serbia will comply with the provisions of this law within six months of its entry into force. "So, the Red Cross will harmonize. So, no consent to the statutes, and absolutely nothing is foreseen what if the Red Cross won't align or fail to align. What's going on in that case? The only thing we have in Article 13 is something that's a little specific about some kind of surveillance function of the state organized by the Red Cross. That's in the final position of Article 13. It says – funds transferred to the Red Cross of Serbia from the Republic's budget are subject to the control and audit system in a manner established by the law governing the Republic's budgetary system. However, it is one general norm and that implies if some abuses of budget funds occur that the state will be able to interfere. An open question remains whether an organization like the Red Cross can exercise public authority. As we have already said, we think that the Red Cross should be an autonomous organization; autonomous, but not independent. It cannot be independent, because it receives funds in part from the budget, and part of it collects funds by allowing this organisation to raise funds in certain ways. The state must not transfer to the Red Cross responsibility for any failures in the conduct of those transactions defined as entrusted transactions by the State. I think we've got a little debate back on track, because some MPs from the ranks of government-backed parties tried to argue with a dilemma about who's in favour and who's against the Red Cross. Whoever has some objections to this bill, to concrete solutions, is against the Red Cross, and those who are for the Red Cross, of course, they don't even have to read the text of this law and thus prove that they are for all purposes, all tasks, all the jobs that the Red Cross does.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23128	Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23129	Dear People's MPs, here comes the President of the Assembly, rested. We didn't have that option, unfortunately, but as it is, we need to move on, we need to discuss the laws that absolutely didn't have to be in the package today. The question is, why are they packed here? The question at all is why is the whole set conditioned by the budget, the question again is whether the argument holds water that if this budget is not passed, and it will not be passed if there are no laws like this... Is all this true – we argue that it is not necessary, that a deliberate confrontation has been made in order to be in the general crowd, and I am free now, I am fully convinced that, to state the opinion of our Serbian radicals, take advantage of opportunities and laws that could never, in the ordinary procedure, go through with this artificial binding and conditionality in the package, vote under the sea. So it's a kind of pressure, and when under pressure laws are passed that don't have a consensus of the professional public, then it's not good for the citizens and for the state. We come to what will justify our reserves regarding the solutions that have been given, we primarily think about whether it should be independent; we think it should be autonomous. If she's voluntary, whether she should have the authority of the state, whether she should have public authority. I'm going to read article 12 for the citizens. It's short. "At the request of the Red Cross, the Serbian authorities, organisations and persons are obliged to provide information that they have in carrying out their activities, i.e. those they possess, which are necessary for the exercise of public authority under the article. 6th and 7th of this law. "Then it goes on to say, "Organs, organisations and persons are required, under official duty, to deliver to the Red Cross Serbia all data determined by Geneva conventions and supplementary protocols on persons protected by those conventions and protocols, within 15 days of the day they exercise control over those persons. "These are the obligations of organs, organizations and faces towards the Red Cross. Is it possible that this is required, that the Red Cross has the right to ask private persons, of the organization's data from their work. It's just amazing. Where did they get that authority? What about the business secret? How do you think that can happen? I don't want to read to you again these four points that you have placed in public authority, so it says: launch, organisation and implementation or participation in regular and extraordinary solidarity actions; training of citizens who are voluntarily organized to carry out civil protection activities; organisation, training and preparation of first aid teams, hygienic and epidemiological protection and gathering and organization of voluntary blood donors. What of these powers makes you give the right to the Red Cross to ask organs, organizations, and individuals to give information? What information and about what? Absolutely illegal, it violates human rights and constitutional rights. I won't say which, but I can prove it. This second, Geneva Convention, is it that convention that speaks of war, prisoners of war, which speaks of the wounded and the conditions of war? If that's the case, I guess it's the jurisdiction of the state, I guess the military has the authority to have information about it and that the state communicates with international communities itself. Or they'll be bypassed by the state, so they'll be through the Red Cross i.e. The Red Cross official also performs this communication, which absolutely falls under the authority of the state? I don't think that works, that it can't and that you absolutely violate the basic principles on which the Red Cross organization rests. This becomes an agency, so we don't call it "freer" words, "spy" in this way. That's quite clear. In war conditions, the Geneva Convention prescribes how and what is done. When you collect data like that and collect data from the work of a company, a private individual, what it is and what it looks like. So it's been taken too much from the state and this member is, in my opinion, the most ferocious example of illegal. How can you defend that I don't know, I'd like you to explain it to me. Enter the dialogue. You're avoiding dialogue, there's no dialogue. He wasn't on the board either, because you weren't on the board either. We also pointed to the Committee, there is no real dialogue. Go out and say - you are wrong, according to this and this document, explain to the citizens of Serbia, explain to us Serbian Radical Party MPs. Don't just accuse us of making obstructions and telling stories for the sake of it. Don't always encourage evil intentions and empty party bickering. Come out and explain. You didn't explain in the public hearing, she wasn't there. You didn't explain on the board, there was no debate. Your officers, neither guilty nor indemnity, were exposed to our questions on which they provided answers they considered appropriate, but you are responsible for this law. They're not. I respect them, respect their knowledge, respect their efforts, and they are inserted into a machine that grinds people. What do we have as a result? Nakarad's laws. If you think that with this will and artificial mathematics you can do anything here, you can do it right now, but think about the future days that are coming and think about how to apply this and what all this can bring. You're a civil servant. In the division of power between the executive, legislative and judicial parliament, there must be primate. That's what all ministers don't know and don't respect. They don't have to know, they don't have to respect either, but why you, as an executive official, derogate the state, why you are introducing rules that are essential tasks and functions of the state in this way that you are pushing and destroying. Explain that to us. The Geneva Convention, the war, the prisoners, the Red Cross is competent to collect data and, of course, to give the central, I don't know which central, possibly committee, not the Federation or movement. Why are you putting it in? Why are you destroying the legal system and the authority of the state? You're an executive officer, that's our question for you, and you're not answering us during this whole debate. Some MPs think we have something against the Red Cross. No, we don't, we don't think that this organization should exist and do a job that it's doing and it's supposed to be humanitarian, and we also don't think it's right when the Red Cross is taken away from the executive power part of the funds. So that's exactly what we blame the executive. You can't afford it any way you want, and if it's a fee – now that they've taken some money that's been allocated to you, now we're going to reward you for something that absolutely doesn't stand. I don't think that's it, I think it's something else, that it's including totalitarianism called the new world order, and that's the real point of passing one of these laws. You belong to that movement, we don't mind, it's a legal option. We Serbian radicals believe that this is not a good option for this people and this country, and for that reason, I say to other parliamentary groups who are surprised and shocked by the attitude of the SRS, I don't think totalitarianism of the new world order is going to do us any good and has done us any good. Five years have passed since the inauguration of so-called. Democratic authorities and regimes in this country, travel visas still apply to us, we are still "black sheep" in the Balkans, we are still told that we should go to Europe. However, yesterday you said well that it was not the European Community of Europe. That's 54 states. Right, but why are you holding this badge on the lapel? I agree that Europe is Russia and other countries. We radicals see Europe, in this dioptria, but don't when you need some legal solutions that suit you, all of a sudden you say that it's not the European Union of Europe, and you're taking us to the European Union and insisting on it. To conclude, explain this article, how it is possible to give these powers to the Red Cross. We'd be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23130	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, the Prophet of the Faith of Radet. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23131	Comrade Momchilov, you will hardly provoke here the present minister to communicate with the MPs. He will be in the manner of Kostunica's ministers at the end of this debate and giving a lecture to the MPs for half an hour, but we are already used to it, so we are not paying attention. We're here to say what we think about government proposals, about the promoter, about government, about ministers, and, as you can see, we're doing it neatly. Before I start on this amendment, I am obliged to say one correction, because I was called by some people who were at the crossing to Kuzine, when they crossed from Republika Srpska; so I said this morning that a cup of tea was paid for 10 euros, they corrected me, they told me that people who wore the red cross mark were charging 10 marks and a cup of tea of 50 marks. So much for the humanity of certain people. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, when talking about her amendment, mentioned her friend who followed humanitarian aid because she had no confidence in representatives of the Red Cross. Of course she couldn't even trust herself, because all of us, especially us who are in a way, originally related to those areas that are now occupied by the Ustasha Croatian state, know what was happening on these fields at the time of the war, we know that humanitarian aid has been collected both in Belgrade and across Serbia. We were all involved in the collection of this humanitarian aid and then we learned shocking facts, say that in some villages and cities, in those parts where the humanitarian aid was sent, representatives of the Red Cross opened their shops, and then out of here they were taken together a few tableclothes of flour, and then there in their shop they sold 100 marks, at the time, a bag of flour. That kind of thing happened, we know all that, and that's why we have this kind of relationship, not according to some humanitarian organization, of course not. We are talking about concrete cases that have, unfortunately, occurred and have no citizens of Serbia trust in such organisations. Today, citizens of Serbia do not have confidence in the Red Cross, because when it comes to some concrete humanitarian action, why no aid is collected through the Red Cross for little Mark Teodorovic, this Zemun boy for whom 300 thousand euros for heart surgery is to be collected. People will not do it through the Red Cross, but of course, the humanity of Serbian citizens is shown in action. I hope, I am convinced that those 300,000 euros for Mark Teodorovic will be gathered and that he will go to the operation, but of course not because there is something the Red Cross has done, but because Serbian citizens are human people and have compassion for Mark and his family and will do a good deed. So we're talking from a completely different aspect of this problem and this law. The amendment I submitted to Article 13 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group is a logical trail of amendments that I submitted to Article 7 and all amendments discussed by colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party. This article refers to the funding of the Red Cross. In light of the law on this last page, it says: "The funds for the implementation of this law are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and within the heading of the Ministry of Health - the budget fund for the financing of the Red Cross. "If this is like this, what will this Article 13 tell you now? So, I'll repeat what I said this morning, your whole law is in collegiate with itself, and some members of each other are in incredible collage, first of all, with the attitude of the first member of this law. You say, among other things, in financing: "The territorial autonomy or units of local self-government can provide additional funding for the funding of the Red Cross programme and the work of Serbia not covered by the position of the 1st member. "First, what are extra funds, which means in law - I can. The law has to say something, something's gonna happen, and the law can't say something can happen. If the law says he can do something, it means he doesn't have to, it means we leave someone at good will, and that still means abuse. What further does it mean to be able to raise additional funds to fund the Red Cross's programs and activities? Why would they be gathered to fund the Red Cross's work, because if local self-government can raise those funds, then they will give them in particular to some humanitarian action like this humanitarian action to save the lives of Marko Teodorovic from Zemun. So, you don't need intermediaries, you have to show humanity in action, and in particular you don't have to legally predict the possibility that whoever applies the law can be nice and abused. I cannot accept these formulations, Mr. Minister, in law – that something can. Something has to. If it's in the law, then it has to or doesn't exist. That "can" just doesn't match our legal system. Where you copy this from; maybe it can do that, but in Serbia it can't, in Serbia's legal system it can't. We must pass laws with clear, concise, precise legal standards, that there is no abuse in the application of this norm, no broad interpretations, that the law can be applied, not misused. Furthermore, you say in the last position: "The funds transferred to the Red Cross of Serbia from the Republic's budget, the AP budget and the budgets of the local self-government units are subject to the control and audit system in a manner established by the law governing the budgetary system of the Republic. "It is only in this we do not trust, because three days here the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, as we discussed the budget in principle and in particular, drew your finance minister's attention to the budgetary inspection, to the budgetary control, to the appeals, to the calls of the president of the municipalities of the SRS who have been presidents in their municipalities for more than a year, and did not act as the budgetary control of the finance ministry to exercise control of certain abuses. When Serbian radicals took over in these municipalities, they found certain abuses, but demanded that budgetary inspection be established so that certain procedures could continue. Of course, the budget inspection has no intention of doing that. The finance minister also has no intention of doing it, because he does it as well as he does it where it suits him. So, I would like to stress that we Serbian radicals, not to be misread, because I expect you, Minister, to speak in the final word on the subject, to turn water on that well as we are against the Red Cross organization, etc. No, we're not. Just because we don't trust you personally, in your government doesn't mean that we don't want humanity to be shown in action, because first of all, we're all human people and we show it every day. To support why I said we don't trust you. A colleague, Goran Cvetanovic, spoke about it. We have a piece of paper that says that. I can read everything, but it's about December 12, 2002. Among other things, he said, "In considering the government budget of the Republic of Serbia, it was found that budget funds, by law intended for the Republic of Red Cross to stimulate voluntary blood donation, were paid to the Serbian Blood Transfusion Institute by the Ministry of Health. These funds for the realisation of the law of general interest have been used without purpose and for the purchase of equipment for the purposes of the Institute, without the accompanying quality certificate for use in the blood transfusion service", and worse still, this equipment is an integral part of the EAD donor programme. Budgetary control, therefore, was budgetary control, found to be the current one, and that is what you, Mr. Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, have purposelessly spent about 300 million dinars of national, national money for these purposes. So, that kind of thing motivates us to talk about the laws you're making this way, because you like to do what you did and what you intend to do, and what's contrary to the law, frame in some of your new laws so that you can defend yourself tomorrow when finally the state of Serbia becomes a legal state, when the law enforcement authorities and the judicial authorities are doing their job, and when finally all those who misused the function, all those who robbed the people's money will be and answer. Of course, don't get it wrong, neither you, nor your fellow MPs, nor the public who listens and monitors the work of this parliament, we do not threaten Serbian radicals with any political retribution, because we have never done so. We are only threatening, conditionally speaking, that is to say, promising Serbian citizens after the next election (it is clear to all that we will be the ones who will form the government and be the majority of the assembly) the unfavourable fight against crime, against all those who in any way and for one dinar have damaged this people, damaged the citizens of Serbia. In an explanation of why you did not accept this amendment, you said it was for the same reasons that the amendment to Article 1, 6, 7, 8 was not accepted. All right. They are similar, with the same motive and amendments, so I have no objection to that kind. To just cut the job short, you prescribed it, but you added another sentence, you say, "as well as since public powers are necessary financial resources." Well, we've been saying that since 10:00. Here's how long it's been, we keep saying it here and saying it can't be done, that when it comes to the Red Cross it can't. And you, at the end of the half of this sentence, explain to us that we are in fact right, but that, for our unknown reasons, you do not want to accept this amendment and all the amendments that Serbian radicals have submitted, that you would have finally had a polite and applicable law on the Red Cross, when you have already, as Natasa Jovanovic said, not the most difficult thing, but when you have already put it on the agenda and when you will adopt it then at least be a law that will be applicable, easily applicable and without opening up the possibility of abuse. In this assembly, since this current government has been a proposing and also concerns the previous two governments, and Zivkovic and Djindjic, you have not passed a single law, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs who vote for the laws without having to intervene in two or three months with changes and additions. And, mostly, amending and supplementing the laws are those amendments that we Serbian radicals are proposing, and ministers as representatives of the government will not adopt them because they have animosity towards our parliamentary group. I guess they have a complex from seeing that we Serbian radicals know a lot better what the ministers here represent than the ministers themselves who are trying to present it here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23132	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Health and Family has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by the MP of the People, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23133	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment to Article 13 says, in paragraph 1, the words "and 8" are deleted. Normally, logically again, we pass on that because we still feel that the public authority of the Red Cross should be given precisely to motivate and popularize voluntary blood donation. It says here, "Your five minutes -- someone's whole life." So in Serbia every 100 seconds, it takes a blood donor. We need to become donors. Is it the strategic interest of every country to have enough blood donors to react at all times? Yes, it is. Is there enough blood in Serbia today? There isn't. Is it important, then, to whom the state will transfer its public powers and allow all those who need to get blood on time and when it is necessary? For us in the SPS parliamentary group, there is really no doubt about whether this should be public authority or not. I truly deeply believe in the organisation of the Red Cross of Serbia, which is a humanitarian, independent, non-profit and voluntary organisation and which, unfortunately, in all these difficult times behind us, and has not returned, played a truly very serious and responsible role for the state. I'd say they were on a big exam, anyway, just like all of us, and they absolutely passed that exam. The Socialist Party of Serbia will, of course, always represent a concept in which the Red Cross of Serbia will have its place in our society, because we really look at and see that this independence that this organization has, with its complete network and with its army of volunteers, is necessary for a country like ours, not to say for all states and states that are and much higher standards than ours. She's proven herself several times in action. We have no doubt that they are ready, that they are aware of the burden of responsibility that would bear this public authority for them, but rest assured, no matter how much this authority of the state from its means should be financed, we should not fear that these funds would not be used properly. Believe me, I am convinced, and that the state absolutely does not single out a single penny and that this assembly does not adopt these amendments that I have submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I am sure that both the Government and the RES ministry and all, and professionals and volunteers, in the Red Cross will equally securely and responsibly carry out tasks that will be ahead of them, both with money and no money. I'm not going to say that there are no individual cases that can truly tarnish the honor of all organisations, of all people, of all citizens, and of all parties, but I really cannot accept the impression that such individuals can destroy and arm the entire system that exists. Indeed, let us do everything possible to enable the Red Cross of Serbia to finally get the law it deserves, the law for which all volunteers, all the Red Cross organisations, are called upon and that will enable them to function in the right way and help people and their country in the best way they can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23134	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23135	I had the right to speak after the amendment for 15 minutes, but I appreciate the auditorium, even a small number, which is working hard to follow all of what we're doing today. We feel that the law is important, and even if it is Saturday, we have to do what needs to be done when one important law is passed. In order for there to be no confusion, we Serbian radicals are not against the participation of the Red Cross, we have to repeat this for the 100th time, in the action of voluntary blood donation, the motivation of the public through educational programs, through the sharing of propaganda material, we are absolutely not against it. If we were Serbian workers for voluntary blood donation, this is also an example of our MPs, we are all voluntary blood donors and there is none of us who is not a voluntary blood donor. I don't know if in all MP groups the same situation. On the other hand, when a recently passed law, which you wanted to vote for, to reduce the number of free days by voluntary blood donors, Serbian Radical Party MPs insisted their amendments not to abolish that right by voluntary blood donors. So, when you specifically need to give blood, we're here and there's nothing anyone can blame us for. We understand the problem. But there's one document, again in this affair that's about blood transfusions, about reform, about this whole project that's been done under a great deal of secrecy, which is probably loaded with some of the corruptive actions that are being talked about, and you heard that from the budget one year there was no idea how much money, so they were spent getting some equipment, which is absolutely illegal under the law. What I'm saying is it's been brought in so-called. A strategy; at a meeting this year at the Hayat Hotel, you got a nice book. It is said that the government of the Republic of Serbia is now responsible for safe blood in sufficient quantities. Minister, I don't know if that's what it says. Is the government responsible for the safe amounts of blood? Therefore, do not transfer the public authority that the strategy, written by the experts of the transfusiological profession, has given this right. The minister says it's what the experts wrote; once it's good for the experts, it doesn't work for him once. I'm not getting into whether or not he's doing well, I'm just saying that the solutions given by a project led by a Swiss gentleman, a sociologist by profession, who denies it, but doesn't say what's up to the profession... He's quite young and someone has bid that he was 24 years old when he headed the project, and he says it's not true, and he doesn't say his age. But what's absolutely true is totally incompetent to run this project. Well, it's a matter of the international community and those who set it up. He showed by his actions, by his actions, as well as the project itself with its results that led to him being incompetent. I'm not saying that the strategy, which focused its attention on the government, that it was responsible for safe and sufficient amounts of blood, was not brought first by this document. Just so we understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23136	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Petar Jojic, following an amendment to Article 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23137	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as compared to Article 13. The bill draws attention to the ministry and the minister's view that the funds transferred to the Red Cross of Serbia from the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province budget and the budget of the local self-government unit are subject to the control and audit system in a manner established by the law governing the budgetary system of the Republic. I suggest there have been a number of abuses in practice. These abuses are seen in insufficient or no control of budgetary inspection. If funds to finance Red Cross's operations are allocated from the budget, full budgetary control must be established as it is available with the financial resources allocated from the Republic's budget, autonomous province and local self-government. In practice, you have a number of abuses, since regular inspections on the ground are not carried out as to how these funds are used and how these funds are monitored and directed and in which direction, as to which authority has spent these funds in relation to the Red Cross. That the Republic of Serbia and the financial inspection are not doing their job is best seen by not being controlled by a budgetary inspection for years. If we have thousands of those who collect taxes from citizens, and if you only have 27, how much information do I have, budget inspectors at the level of the Republic, i.e. in the Republic, then there is something thought out, organized, and I don't know what the intention is in that case in the Republic that there is not enough control of the use of budget funds, and not just in relation to the Red Cross, but in general how budget funds are used. On more than one occasion, I am as a national MP on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party and the voters who elected us asked the finance minister to send a budget financial inspection from the republican authority to the Pancevo municipality to determine where the money is. I repeat, although I have said this before, and I have been forced on this occasion, that the municipality of Panchevo is by budget of the fifth in Serbia, after Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, with about two and a half billion dinars, adding here 177 million dinars allocated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, adding here an environmental tax that has been valued for hundreds of millions over the last three or four years, without us in Panchev knowing where the money is. In the cities of the Republic of Serbia, you have the opportunity to see something being built, to build a wall, and especially where Serbian radicals are in power. As an example, we'll re-emerge Novi Sad. You can see, it's a construction site that can be compared to the constructions that were in the happiest times i.e. Between the 1970s and the 1980s, when it was built across Serbia. You can see that in Kikinda, whose budget is 730 million dinars, and we in Panchev have a budget of two and a half billion almost. Now that you see what has been done in this municipality where the radicals are in power and here where the coalition is, you can see that citizens are appalled, contact them, ask people – well, why for those funds that have been allocated for sewage, for roads, for electricity, for gasification, for children's kindergartens, and also for the hospital center of South Banat in Pancheva... Mr. Minister, if your options allow you, visit the Southern Banat Health Center and all health facilities in South Banat County. You'll see to it that it's unbearable. You'll make sure our patients are covered in war blankets from 1914, you'll make sure they're lying on those iron military beds from World War I. You'll make sure that after seven days, patients don't see a piece of meat when they're lying in the hospital. If you do one more thing as an additional check and go to one of Serbia's district prisons, you will see that the patients do not have food that prisoners have in the penitentiary institutions. Of course, prisoners have to have food and they should have food and that's fine. I've had opportunities on several occasions lately to have citizens and patients come to me and tell me that they haven't seen a seven, eight-day piece of meat and that their cuneiforms are being divided there, some soups, who knows what they look like and a piece of bread and I don't want to count it, I wouldn't want to vulgarize it anyway. It's inappropriate for a situation like that to happen at this time. Mr. Minister, I'm taking the opportunity, because I'm coming from a city that's the most endangered in terms of health care, i.e. from Pancheva where the southern zone has endangered the lives of 130,000 Pancheva municipality residents. Go to Panchevo and make sure there are no more cemeterys or cities with millions of inhabitants. If you read the local list "Pancevac" you will see the obituaries, hundreds of them, die, but the state, the Republic of Serbia does not allocate funds to rebuild and repair the southern zone of Azotari, Refinery and Petrochemia. Mr. Minister, the citizens of Panchevo municipality deserve special care from the Ministry of Health because they are threatened by the dirtiest industry in the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that only Panchemic Petrochemy exports products annually for about 150m euros. The funds are extracted from the Panchevo municipality, but in return for improving the health and environmental protection of Pancheva by the government absolutely gives nothing. Last year, we in this assembly, the MPs of the SRS, asked whether the emigration of the citizens of Panchev would stop, when there was an ecological disaster and pollution of the city, because the citizens of Topola, Vojlovica, the Lower City, and the city center began to emigrate. In the election campaign, there were thousands of promises, even the president of the municipality promised to change the rose of the wind and that no more pollution would go towards the city, but would go south. But that didn't end up happening. Nothing happened to improve the situation with regard to the health protection of citizens in Pancheva municipality. When we asked that question here the next day the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Labus went to Panchevo, he visited the southern industrial zone, convinced himself that the situation was catastrophic. At the same time, he promised and said – we will need 360m euros in order to restore the southern industrial zone and prevent the pollution and death of a city and destroying the lives of people who have done nothing wrong, and profit draws the state from Pancheva. I've been telling you for years, and that's 40 years as it's been happening in Pancheva, the state isn't building anything, it's not doing anything, it's not taking steps to prevent this disaster from happening to the Pancheva municipality. On local television in the Panchevo municipality you will see almost every night, citizens complain. What happens when it comes to health care and environmental protection? What did the state of Serbia, or the government, do? Nothing. What does the government say or what we listen to in the media? All we have is a finding that we've secured pollution measurements and nothing more, three measurement stations needed to be placed in Azotara, Rafineria and Petrochemia. Mr. Minister, this isn't a laughing matter. I have to tell you, unfortunately, you realize that 130,000 people in Panchev are at risk, local self-government is doing nothing, the government and the Republic are doing nothing, money is intended for environmental and environmental tax is not known where they are. On the other hand, the Ministry of Health does not take measures to single aid at least 20, 30, 100 million to the Pancheva Health Center; visit, Mr. Minister, the hospital center in Pancheva and you will see that it is a disaster. That is why, when it comes to budgetary resources, I have mentioned only in relation to this amendment, Dr Dacin, that a detailed control should be carried out in this direction, because everything is not seen from Belgrade. Only stories can be told in the government building, but it has to go to the local community, to the health station. If you were to visit health stations in southern Banat, you would be wondering if it is possible that someone here provides health care to the citizens. I'm not saying this by heart. Go around the field and help the southern Banata, especially the Panchevo municipality and raise more money than is common where there is no situation and disaster, as it is in Pancheva. As for the president of the municipality and local self-government, that is, the local government represented by a coalition similar to this coalition in the government, i.e. in the Assembly and in the Government, you will see, there is nothing done but empty and hollow talk through that local television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23138	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. Thank you. On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23139	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Prof. Dr. Milet Poscurica submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party an amendment to Article 14. It is just a continuation of this story, illustrated by many examples of life related to the work of the Red Cross and for our understanding of what we have explained to you, Mr. Minister, in Article 1, what, by definition given by the Serbian Radical Party, should be the Red Cross. Again, I ask you, why did you need this law? It was nice of you to come out and say - that's the directive, the European Union told me. You are in Serbia a well-known tender master. Even now, to set up various engagements for the Red Cross, there's no end to that. If you give the option, according to Article 14(3), The Pokupica asks to be deleted, to provide funds for the Red Cross from services provided by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units to trust the Red Cross, in addition to all those services and profits that will be well-provided under Articles 10, paragraphs 4 and 10, that is unacceptable. First, the units of local self-government, here are the many presidents of the SRS municipalities, and we expressed that attitude for the first time and demonstrated it when President Seselj became President of Zemun Municipality in 1996, are not obliged to finance the Red Cross at all. They're doing it not by instinct, but because they're putting them in a body called the so-called Corps. NGOs. These aren't small amounts. The local self-government unit doesn't need the citizens' associations to finance at all. Not to mention the various other non-Red Cross associations, which are classical organisations engaged in other activities, primarily in spy activity in our country, which is being subdued under the non-governmental sector, which is financed by Soros, outside the state institutions, and then placed by some units of local self-government, as we have a case in Kragujevac, several of them, to be financed by the city of Kragujevac, i.e. the local self-government unit. What are these jobs and what is this activity that a city or municipality needs to trust the Red Cross and that they get money from us? I just have to tell you, Mr. Minister, it's frantic that what happens in Kragujevac, and everywhere in Serbia, you have such examples. That's where the new Red Cross secretary came in. It's about a woman who's a member of the DS. In the Red Cross rooms, whose alleged humanitarian activity should be the basis for his dealings, Vesna Pesic held a political tribune in Kragujevac 20 days ago. Can you justify that and then how will you react as the minister of power? What are the rooms of the Red Cross – places where some will fail politically, both morally and in any other way, the personalities to hold their political stands and try to sow their hatred among citizens and behave like that? See what is in Article 9 of the proposed law, that the Red Cross of Serbia implements the programme and activities arising from the objectives and tasks of the International Movement, and in particular: first... What happened in Serbia, or SRJ, the newer history and civilization did not remember, is the 78-day bombing of our people and our country. When you talk about their customs and what they are, if they were so human, I mean those countries and countries that you're calling on, they wouldn't have ordered NATO aggression on our country and that women, children and our armies were so unfeelingly killed that civil, economic and other objects were destroyed. I'll take the case out of the town of Kragujevac again. This is the point of point 3 where the Red Cross delivers a plan and implements a programme of preparation for operations in accidents, in collaboration and in coordination with the competent state authorities. What is the Yugoslav Army but a competent state authority? When the officers of the Yugoslav Army came to the Red Cross secretary at the time in Kragujevac, because they needed help, since the state was at war with the largest military alliance, the lady who was then the Red Cross secretary told them – get out of here, leave, don't let these strangers see you. Foreigners not to see members of the Yugoslav Army, who at that time are fighting for the naked survival and defending the lives of their countrymen! Please don't tell me that these are all humanitarian activities and that they are responsible for defending citizens' interests at all times. As a result, Professor Mileta Posukica reacted and considered it absolutely scandalous and inappropriate to keep this point 3 in Article 14 and to keep it in line with certain services, imagine, and by doing these services and programs, for the sake of the units of local self-government, the Red Cross still receives later money. The position of the Serbian Radical Party since our establishment, when it comes to any NGOs, sectors, the International Red Cross, the Red Cross of Serbia, the SRJ of the time, as regards revenues from the budgets given to them and their actions, is absolutely identical as it is now in 2005. That is why we feel that we need to end our arguments and these amendments to defend that position, because it is the only right way of thinking. You yourself, as a promoter, through all the other members, when you said that it was an alleged non-profit organisation, you denied, and also this Article 14 and point 3), and in particular to Article 10 and all points, from 1) to (4), in the position of Article 10(4). It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23140	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23141	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. We're here all the time, the presidents change. The circus goes on. Our chairman comes to sleep, and we, many here, are quite tired. But what's there? You can't get out of this skin. We wanted to, and we shouldn't complain. After all, we're pretty good and paid. That is what the people know, so there is no place to complain. The complaint, namely, was intonated for other reasons. When you do this all the time, marathon, for three or four days, you don't sleep at night, when you're here for up to two hours in these benches, then you can't use your brain with full capacity in the right way, and then maybe you're having a bad argument. As the ultimate result, you may also have bad solutions. As a doctor, I have to point out that the capacity of the human organism, when it comes to the mental part, and the Assembly is involved in mental work, it has only this jurisdiction, we are not engaged in any other activity, except mental activity that, through these speeches and replicas, comes to our citizens, is not programmed to work like this. It's programmed to work eight hours. I'm surprised Mr. Minister, as a man who promotes health, then prevents diseases, which know the definition of health, psychophysical well-being, doesn't object to it. I'm not saying he's an advocate of it. I don't believe he's an advocate. That's why it's Mr. Markovic's fault, not the gentleman who currently runs this assembly. Mr. Poscurica has requested the removal of point 3 which speaks of funding. It is said: membership fees, gambling, and then it is said – from the budget. It says here – from services provided by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units entrusted to the Red Cross of Serbia. What are those duties? It's completely indeterminate. In particular, you finance the powers that you transfer to the Red Cross and you say it comes from the budget. All right. What are your extra assignments? Tell me we know what this is about. It's very vague. On the other hand, if you're watching, I said that this law is no good, there are no four strategic goals of the 2001 or 2004, I can't do it anymore, my brain isn't working properly. You didn't install that, and you say you're making modern law. What does the International Federation of the Red Cross say? It says, what is a basic mission – to facilitate life for sensitive categories of people, mobilising the power of humanity. Then it says – it is the vulnerabilities of people who are at great risk of surviving or their capacity of life being satisfactory in the social and economic sense and human dignity. It says - often these victims are victims of natural disasters, poverty caused by socio-economic crises, they are refugees, and victims of medical emergency. That's the mission of the Red Cross. Where is it described here in this law of goals and tasks? From what I've said, where are your refugees, where are your people threatened by emergency medical conditions? That's the point. It's not in your law at all. So what do they charge for when they're not doing what's the basic goal and the task and the contents of their work? If we look at relevant international documents, I read it from a relevant international Federation document that says what the basic objective is, there are no targets in your law. He's got a partial and he's got a bad one. Then what? Now when you look at this, the prices, then really the Red Cross looks a little bit like not the humanitarian, nonprofit, but the one company that's most shown here by doing various tasks that it can gain revenue. It's in proportion to other goals and tasks, which should be dominant, not this, by finding funds in this way. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23142	I thank the People's Messenger Pai Momchilov. Otherwise, I completely agree with you, Mr. Momchilov, that it takes eight hours to work and that over that it's unproductive. Who further picks up the word after this amendment? Here you are, MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23143	The amendment, submitted by Professor Milet Poscurica on behalf of the SRS, asked to delete the part to provide funds from services provided by state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units to the Red Cross of Serbia. The government explained that it does not accept the amendment, they say – since there is often a need for competent state authorities, territorial autonomy authorities and local self-government units for certain transactions carried out through the Red Cross of Serbia, these transactions must be financed, and then it is an example that the humanitarian aid of the Serbian state for Kosovo and Metohija is mainly implemented through the Red Cross of Serbia, because no state body at this point has access to all areas in Kosovo and Metohija, so it is necessary to finance the part. A lot of jobs are done through the Red Cross. A Serbian Radical Party had a humanitarian action several months ago to donate one computer to every school in Kosovo and Metohija, somewhere around 110 schools, where Serbs and non-Albanian populations mostly go. It was a humanitarian action; in addition to these computers that were delivered to each school, packages for children were provided. At the time, it was a suggestion to go over the Red Cross of Serbia, but it was only one reason, which is not to pay the value added tax. We have just done this action on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, not through the Red Cross, because we believe that and when the Republic of Serbia, or individual local self-government, then certain local self-governments should also pay all obligations to the state, and if the state considers it to be a true humanitarian character, then it should exempt such actions from paying the value added tax. Since Mrs Dacin has repeatedly focused attention on some amendments to the SRS, saying that humanity is seen in action, not in words, I am responsible for saying that all SRS municipal committees in all Serbia, including the Central SRS during this year have organised voluntary blood donations, and it always happens in Leskovac. In addition to the SRS and the G17, because the chief is now from G17, otherwise he was in JUL, then the DOS, so as the government changes, there is now a G17. In the next election, he will demand, since he is my schoolmate, to come to the ranks of the SRS, but unfortunately we will not give him the satisfaction, because we value people who are competent, honest and who do their job professionally, not by joining the G17 to reach the post of transfused chief.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23144	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has been made by the MP Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23145	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to article 15 formulates additional funding of the Red Cross, which is really necessary, because we know that we have had 15 years of economic crisis, which is still going on, and wars. We know that the Red Cross has funded a lot of donations. Of course, the budget continues to finance itself. In the future, we will have no funding from the diaspora, which has made the biggest contribution all these years, and should also highlight our public figures, especially athletes, artists, etc., literally the whole of Serbia has been involved in all these activities. Now we will not have these donations and additional funding, so it would be necessary to single out of these events, sports, cultural and fair, according to this proposal 3% to finance the Red Cross. That doesn't mean anything to the organiser himself, 3%, and for many poor people in Serbia, unfortunately, it has to be acknowledged that it means a lot. Of course, all these 15 years we've had donations, which doesn't mean we'll have them in the future and we should support it in the voting day, on Monday, this amendment. The law should also be commended, as the law formulates the international role of the Red Cross of Serbia and formulates and more control of the work of the Red Cross itself. You should also point out all those people, volunteers who have been doing volunteer work all these years for the Red Cross. And, of course, you have to support a proposal like this, because it's European law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23146	On behalf of what MP club? In the name of the unclassified. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23147	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I would just like to say, I suppose that my colleague Veroljub Stevanović would have accepted such an amendment, with the same idea that 3% of each ticket from the sports and cultural events would be singled out and defined for the functioning and implementation of activities in the Red Cross, and I have appreciated the opinion that I received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that it would really affect the young population who attends cultural and sports events in the first place, in order to collect these maps, and already they are not cheap and young people are very little at this very moment. I'd like to say that I can simply understand that there's always a legitimate concern about how this Red Cross has so many financial resources and how much it's all very much. What counterpart Stevanovic suggested is also in the current Law on the Red Cross of Serbia, which still stands today, and I would like to say what the amount of funds was. For example, for 2004 of these dedicated funds, so 3% of each ticket sold, the total amount paid in a year is only 489 thousand dinars. Of course, the Red Cross of Serbia has its own rules, according to which it deploys not only the Red Cross of Serbia but also the Red Cross province organisation and all municipal organisations, so in 2004, only 55,000 dinars, the Red Cross of Vojvodina 15,000 dinars, and the rest of the 419 thousand dinars were distributed practically to over 160 different Red Cross organisations in Serbia. It just says that we shouldn't be afraid that it's some profitable organization, that it's got a lot of money there, and more than it should be. Given the reasons and the fact that I withdrew these two amendments, at the same time I would like to express my satisfaction and gratitude first to all the members of the Health and Family Committee and, of course, the Minister of Health, because as far as I understood Vice-President Mikhailovic at the beginning of this session, although there was little marble, he said that the amendment of the Health and Family Committee had become an integral part of this law. A compromise solution has been found that at least for all these events that are of international character from sold tickets during the year 2% will be allocated to a budget that is strictly dedicated to spending in the Red Cross of Serbia, which is of course always subject to control by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry. I just wanted to say that because of this and this fact, I suppose my colleague Stevanovic will, but he will not have the opportunity to withdraw the amendment and you understand why we will vote against that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23148	I would like to thank the People's MP, Long-a-Lowered Dacin. Otherwise, she's right, the government has accepted 2% in cultural events, cultural-sports and entertainment. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23149	You know, when someone tries to show their humanity by suggesting that a certain percentage, at 3%, of all these manifestations go to the Red Cross, should also show it to go away, not to waste budgets, because it is the amendment of the Mayor of Kragujevac, who does not know and can not rationally dispose of the budgetary resources of the town of Kragujevac. Citizens living in an extremely difficult situation, who are in an incredible social position every day knocking on his door, breaking the threshold of the City Assembly, helping no one to solve the housing issue, or to hire him, or to help him with drugs, for nothing, and now he comes here and, like, he's a big player in the Serbian government, he's going to lobby to accept his amendment, and it's a good thing you didn't accept his amendment. It's easy for him to waste himself on other people's money, and when he's supposed to have never thought of it, he's not a bunch of those experts around him. Not only did he not give the money and not only did he not rationally allocate the funds that the city has from current incomes and that he got from the Republic, but he only owed us for a year with 400 million dinars for some projects in the mist, without specifications, without anything and it's amazing that something like this is proposed. I just have to tell you that when it comes to any humanitarian activity, whether it's a manifestation of sports character, a concert, that it's always a decision on who's the organizer, and above all on the performers, whether at some point humanely respond, like Miss Ana Ivanovic and Junior Novak Djokovic a few days ago, our tennis hopes that were held 10 days ago by a humanitarian tennis match in "Arena"; or if it's a game when the team plays for humanitarian purposes; or if a concert is held. More than once, Mr Branimir Djokic's National Orchestra organised in the House of Unions and elsewhere concerts to help children from Kosovo and Metohija. Also, Mr. Djokic and the Association of Estradic Artists, who were on the other hand satanized by Dinkic's proposals and put his hand directly on their pocket and damaged them in some way by doing their tax policy, have repeatedly engaged and shown their humanity in such a way. It's never happened before, this year and a half is the mayor of the town of Kragujevac... Look, a city that has a big sports hall, though, has been abandoned, a stadium that's been in operation for so many decades, and it looks like nothing's been invested in it, the "Work's" stadium since 1950 and some years... Why didn't he think of his connections and the agitation to help the citizens of Kragujevac, to organize the City Assembly some humanitarian concert, some event that the Kragujevci would come to, which they could pay for. Symbolically symbolic, but to say that this goes for children who are in the worst position. And the question is what's at the worst, because we have 40,000 people out there without a job and who knows how many kids these parents don't have to survive. Now, this amendment is completely pointless and unacceptable. I just volunteered to react because of this hypocrisy that Stevanovic showed in this way, because where he is a direct budget spender, the fact that he gave Red Cross money from the budget for this year and predicting for next year, he has not shown anywhere that he is ready for humanitarian purposes, as it is the intensity of his amendment, to invest this dinar that with severe torment the Kragujevci is detached from their pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23150	Otherwise, when it comes to the stadium, in 1998 we built an athletic trail, municipalities and ministry, when I was a minister. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in all, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the Serbian Radical Party MP, was right to point out certain gaps and problems that arise in this area. One question for the minister: Mr. Minister, in Article 22, you predicted that the Red Cross of Serbia would comply with the provisions of this law within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. Mr. Minister, Article 24 states that this law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What's the problem? How will the statute be aligned? It takes you six months to bring the statutes into line with the law, and the law should be applied after eight days, so after the publication in the Official Messenger. It doesn't make sense. I would accept that it is a system law, such as the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, with amendments and additions, and as a code that can be postponed within six months, or some other law such as the Law on Liaison Relations, the Law on Procedural Procedure, the executive procedure, the out-of-party procedure, that it is the Constitution, etc. As far as the statute is concerned, I am of the opinion, given that I am well aware of these normative procedures, that it should not have left the application, i.e. the harmonisation of the statutes within six months, and the law goes into effect eight days after the publication in the Official Messenger. I think there may be some kind of oversight or failure here, or it's done for reasons unknown to me, but there's no legal logic to give a deadline for the Red Cross to comply with its statutes with the law within six months, and the law goes into effect within eight days. What will happen in those six months, how can, under what statute, under which law will the Red Cross then be able to act and will this law be applied or will the statute be applied, or will the Red Cross of Serbia be without an appropriate statute during that period? That's my observation. I don't think it makes sense that this proportionality and this difference and this time is not in line with the law. If it is said - the law is applied eight days after the publication in the Official Messenger, in which case the statute should be agreed within that time limit, leaving gaps that cannot be accepted, because there is no effectiveness in application.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23152	I thank the People's MP, Peter Jojic. Once again, Natasa Jovanovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23153	Mr. Angelkovic, you're right about this athletic trail; and it wouldn't have been done if you hadn't respected the coalition agreement that you had with a coalition partner from the so-called coalition. New Democracy to Milosa Srelic, who in turn supported such a coalition, asked for that part of the athletic path to be done. But I was right when I was talking about today's ugly and dreary painting of Chicago Dutch City Stadium in Kragujevac. The track is one thing, but the stands, the locker room, the fence, everything is like a happy new ′48. or ′50. And let him. Come to Kragujevac, look, because it's terrible that it can't be worse; a single stone hasn't been moved for decades. It's not only an ugly picture of the city, but in the process of professionalising sports and future privatisation, of course, it's not only low and no value, but it's pointless to talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23154	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) Proposal to add a new Article 15a after Article 15a. The Committee on Health and Family, pursuant to Article 140(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 15a be added after Article 15a. It is about this previous amendment, with two percent on international tickets. The Prime Minister accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I suggest we stop here, we have one more amendment, and Paya's probably going to stop for a little while, because we have an amendment to Paia Momchilova, and there's the minister at the end, and that's what I was going to say, so we continue at 3:10 p.m. I'm sorry, we'll continue at 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23155	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I ask all present for an apology that we are late. I realized, according to this notice, almost ten minutes. Please excuse me. It's all right. Thank you very much. We continue today's work. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, Ms Verica Radeta, and then we will proceed with the amendment to Article 19. Here you go. The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23156	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I intervened in the Rules of Procedure, Rule 225, under which the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the exercise of the function of the MP. And that's when I made certain statements. I'm going to do some of that again today, and I'm going to fill in some new information. Yesterday, I informed Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, his ministers Jocic and Loncar that strange things were happening in the Surcin municipality, that some citizens who had nothing to do with politics or the municipality had fallen into the municipality building. I asked Minister Loncar, in accordance with his powers, to react. Since none of this happened, no one did anything, there was an incident in Surcin today. There was a man beat up. Three people were detained, according to information, at the MUP on November 29th. To clarify, none of the three who have been detained has anything to do with the SRS or the Zemun municipality, but it is a group of criminals who are members of the Surcin clan and apparently, ladies and gentlemen, that the Surcin clan has been restored, revived, and is back in business with a particular clan, this time against the Serbian Radical Party. The purpose of this clan is to challenge incidents in Surcin. They expected an inappropriate reaction from the Serbian Radical Party. Of course, that plan didn't work. There was no inappropriate reaction, as far as the SRS was concerned. The Serbian Radical Party is legally exercising power in the municipality of Surcin. We won the election, and that's the only way we're gonna let someone take power from us. Having failed the plan of those members of the Surcin clan, they began calling citizens on the phone today and threatening to leave home to house with intent, as they said, to deal with members and supporters of the Serbian Radical Party. Ten minutes ago, I was informed that a police patrol was withdrawn outside the municipality building, which, I must admit, was there so far. So there's no police there anymore. These criminals are obviously ready and still want to cause an incident. We from the Serbian Radical Party are not interested in criminals. We're interested in those who are obviously behind them, who obviously support them, which is certainly not good, because I'm going to remind you that this other Zemun clan has been supporting someone else and that it wasn't good. It is now obvious that this newly renovated Surcin clan is also supported by Vojislav Kostunica and his ministers Jocic and Loncar, since none of them have taken action since yesterday, and there things are obviously too complicated. Mr. Predreze Markovic, and I place you in those who are on the side of that clan, because you did not act in accordance with Article 225, even though you said in public yesterday that the MP had the right to do so. I will try very quickly to obtain information and inform the MPs and the public about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23157	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Okay, one is a rhetorical statement, and the other is... So, Mrs. Radeta, you are absolutely right to be concerned, not only by the Rules of Procedure and not just by the party, but you are, as a MP who performs his legislative function in the best possible way, concerned about the committees who are threatened, if I understand correctly, so one other level of government, is doing its function. In comparison, I'm asking you once again, I understand that it's hard to refrain when you have one kind of information, but we've talked to the previous two days about different examples, all the information we need to check, and this is also used to verify all the information, and your appeal. I made it clear from the pay phone, because it is my obligation to all MPs, that I will immediately send all the information I have in relation to the function I am carrying out to the MPs, because it affects the performance of their function. Unfortunately, I don't have any more official information than you do, but I don't want to make any accusations. At that moment, I repeat, and you know both yourself and each of the MPs, you have no reason to doubt, as I have so far, when I have official information that is important for the functioning and performance of the duties of Members, I immediately make it available to those who are concerned, who can help. That's what I'm gonna do this time. And I will also do with the new information that you have now sent from your sources, and from this place, of course, I appeal, if the correct information is given to you... No, please, I don't doubt it. Be kind, but the president of the Assembly can only function on the basis of official information. That's why I'm saying, if the exact information that you've transmitted, as far as the police patrol is concerned, is to the security of the council building, there's no need for me to leave the O.R. from here, I call on this place to urgently establish the security of the system's institutions, in this case, the building in which the Surcin municipality administration sits. So the way it was in the previous period. This is a public call, and all official information will be received in due time, just like what we are doing now, and we and you are officially doing our jobs and are ready to do it in the best possible way, giving our political views on the laws. I thank all of you for doing things in accordance with the law and responsible for your work. Thank you very much. We continue to work on the amendments. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23158	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the MPs who are present here, who support this marathon that is unnecessaryly imposed on us MPs, I will begin by apologizing to the technical services that follow our work, which in this break ask us – how long, we are tired, please shorten. It is not the fault of Serbian Radical Party MPs, they are simply doing their job responsibly. Our President of the Assembly has often urged us to do our job responsibly. We simply want a bad law to be fully exposed and explained to its essence, so that we can make the Proposer withdraw such a law after all. I have submitted an amendment to Article 19. It is a short member, which reads: "The control of the work of the Red Cross of Serbia in the exercise of public authority is carried out by the authority of the state administration in whose work the area of public authority is established is entrusted to the Red Cross of Serbia. "So, more organs will be now. Each will now partially oversee one of the functions transferred to the Red Cross. It is logical, then, to be the Serbian government, since it is multidisciplinaryly approaching this surveillance. After all, the Serbian government is the one who provides financial resources from the budget for these purposes, as you imagined, and we were against it. That's the essence of my amendment. At the very end of this, I think that whoever followed closely what the Serbian radicals were saying and what our position was quite clear that we advocated that the Red Cross remain a humanitarian, nonprofit, voluntary organisation. It can also be autonomous to us, cannot be independent for many reasons, we have explained that, and can help in the affairs of the Serbian government for some of the actions it has done so far. So that's a very clear view of us. It is clear that our position is that it should retain the powers it has and be paid for from the Republic of Serbia's budget, means the money of all Serbian citizens. So that's quite clear. I've read to you what the International Federation of the Red Cross has told you is essential. She summed up essential tasks in two sentences. I would not quote it again, but I will paraphrasise it – to help all victims of natural disasters, the poor who have been brought into an uninvited position because of the socio-economic crisis, refugees and victims of emergency medical conditions. So if that's the essence and the essential task in which we live today, how many poor people, what is the average personal income, is that 18,000 dinars, if that's the case, can you delegate it to the Red Cross, or is that the state's task? Is it typical for every country? Yes, someone will say that they have severe financial problems and that the majority of the population is poor, and then there is the Ministry of Social Affairs and there is primarily a need to think. The state should be responsible primarily. If we were a country where we have economic and social well-being, we would say – the Red Cross can do it, there's no problem, but here most of the people and citizens of this country are in a difficult social and economic state. The state here must take maximum responsibility for the improvement. Red Cross can't do that. What's clear, and why am I saying that bad law... If you look at the reasons for adoption, it is said: "The main reason for this law is to seek that the position and powers of the Red Cross are in line with the changes made in the development of the International Red Cross Movement and the Red Crescent, which belongs to the Red Cross of Serbia and to the social changes created in Serbia-Montenegro, as well as in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, domestic legislation requires a clear determination of the position, rights and obligations of the Red Cross of Serbia as an auxiliary authority in the humanitarian area... "and I won't quote any more. Article 2 states: "In carrying out tasks related to the achievement of Serbia's objectives and tasks, the Red Cross has been acting in accordance with ratified international agreements and generalised rules in the area of international humanitarian law, especially the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of War since 12 August 1949. "If 1949 is a modern age and these are laws and conventions that make the law passed, and no other newer date is listed, we ask ourselves what it is. So, no new convention, name and last name, with which this is supposed to be coordinated, does exist. I agree, if maybe he was a poetic writer and a legislator of this law, so he said that "the time of the future is contained in the past, and time has passed in the time of the present", it's written by a Nobel laureate, and that's how the "Four Quartets" in the title begins, but I'm not going to say what it is. If that's the case, we can say that you're somewhat right, but that's poetry, the imagination, that does a lot of things when it comes to this law. We get the point, and we tell you that. We've been forced here to discuss a package of laws of which three are very important, although they're important and others, I'm not saying they're not. They're system laws. They could never be in normal procedure, because the waist generally rejected them. We artificially tied them in one bag, so we tied them to the budget and we said, "If there is no budget, there will be no around 700 and some million." To be clear, as far as our Serbian radicals are concerned, we owe nothing to this world, 100 billion assets they destroyed, we don't count human lives. We didn't mean it, but we don't forget. We remember that. We don't owe anything to anyone. These stories of yours being written off to us now—no, they owe us and so on. They're the ones holding our president in The Hague for no reason, and you're all silent. So that radical story doesn't go away. We don't owe anyone anything, we don't have to do anything to eventually get a write-off. So it's an artificially created package, now violently adopted without public debate and in haste. There's no other way he could've gone through. What is this law? I wonder why they won't pull it. This law... Do you know, when a marathon race runs, then you have, when you watch these rallys, a pacemaker, and that's the first one to pull out, so run out. Bad law - rabbit, bad law, here's a rabbit in my hand, which is bad here, so that we're all glancing and exhausting to prove that it's bad, and we don't have any answer or counterargument to tell us – so people, you're talking nonsense. Here's your paper isn't and I'm pushing it with this paper, and then, that's the essence, this rabbit, the pacemaker, the law is proof of the last life of the former powerful DOS, that's its starting point. Logically, he completes a failed project, the Serbian people will know that in the next elections and how he condemns it. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23159	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Rankic, you have six minutes left, after the minute was asked by Mr. Momchilov, the quotes were in question, as well as the paraphrases, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23160	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say something about Mr. Paia Momchilov's amendment, given that it concerns supervision of the work of the Red Cross. For this opportunity, I have the opportunity to show the MPs a record of the control of the municipality's Red Cross organisation in Bora, which was conducted on 8 September 2004 by the supervisory board of the Red Cross of Serbia. It's this paper. The Supervisory Board included: Radosavljevic Gradimir, Jeličić Nebojsa, Vasiljevic Mirko, and a professional associate for the organisation and development of Serbia's Red Cross professional service, Karic Dragoslav, attended. The Serbia Red Cross Supervisory Board found unequivocally that the 2004 bookkeeping record did not begin until today. It's from September 8th last year. Then, because of the lack of accounting records for 2004 there is no indication of what the obligations and claims are, nor the state of property of the municipality’s Red Cross organization in Bor. Out of all seven workers, five were constantly employed in the Red Cross, and two were employed at the Mining-Topinist Basena Bor. The Supervisory Board has found that for the use of a passenger vehicle, they cannot exercise control over travel orders, travel orders are unsuitable, there are a large number of miles traveled and apparently non-intentional use. The vehicle was put to use by other organisations without any contracts or compensation. The secretary has no deposited signature, which is contrary to the statutes, since he is the head of the material finance business. During the financial control of the business, when the supervisory board warned the secretary of jurisdiction, responsibility for the chaotic operation of the Secretary of the Municipality's Red Krust was rapidly ill, so he was immediately transferred to the hospital, which is why we have suspended further control, it says here. I would like to inform you that the secretary is feeling great and that he had no consequences for being suddenly ill, and then the Supervisory Board of the Red Cross Municipal Organisation is being supervised, probably under the direction of the Supervisory Committee of the Republic of Serbia on 8 November, so after two months. What do they say? They argue that, contrary to the rules, payments were made to employees in the name of solidarity aid in the observed period, and a large number of payments were individually made without previous payment of salaries, which are required under the law. Afterwards, the employees were paid a interest-free loan, although the previous loan was not returned, which is also contrary to the laws. It is said that the Supervisory Board has established that payments are based on decisions of the municipal board, but that the dates of the meeting of the municipal board at which it was decided do not match the date of decision-making. Also, illegal payoffs to employees in this case. The costs of the team, which is very important, were 62,804 dinars in the municipality organization of the Red Cross, which is 26% of the total. I'll tell you that for hygiene funds, given the small rooms, it's spent enormously - 13,490 dinars, and it's been paid to a large number of private shops, without any specifications and the amount of goods taken. Fuel costs are 50,370, and you saw it's 76,026, so it's about 20%. PTT services are 43,443 dinars. What did they conclude on the board of directors? That the President of the Red Cross Municipal Organisation has exceeded his powers, that the payment of solidarity aid to employees and their earnings is contrary to the applicable laws, that the funds for PTT services, representation, fuel, etc. disproportionate to what would make sense. Also, there are a lot of irregularities in the organization of folk cuisine. In the end, aid has been embezzled, which is intended for those who have been exiled from Kosovo and Metohija. Why does this amendment need to be adopted? Because this is how you see that this surveillance isn't working. That it doesn't work, even though the Supervisory Board has done its job well, is evidence that no one in the Red Cross Community organization had any consequence of this. It's still the same leadership, it's still the same thing to do. This, Minister, was done a year ago and no one was wrong about this, so you could in the criminal provisions of this law, since the law contains them, when you have already stated that some others are obliged to pay fines because they do not pay on behalf of Articles 12 and 15, to predict and that those who are employed in the Red Cross, if they violate their powers, are subject to criminal law, etc. I will use the President's tolerance just to point out something about the members of the 9th and 10th, since five laws were connected in principle debate. In Article 9, paragraph 5, you have, among other things, the Red Cross programs, and to organise and implement actions to protect and improve the state of the environment. I believe that's not the place. We have the Ministry of Science and Environmental Protection. By the way, you've mixed up what your goals are. Here, in your goals and tasks, you state that the Red Cross must function in accordance with the Geneva Convention, etc. These are not goals, but means a legal obligation to function in this way. What's our program could possibly be our goals. If you already have in Article 9, that the Red Cross organises and implements action to protect and improve the environment, why in Article 10, these four counts, have you not, among other things, that the Red Cross can organise lectures, as stated in Article 9, but you have avoided it? Since the time is up, thank you and so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23161	Thank you, Mr. Rankic. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Since we've completed a search of the bill in particular, we continue, there's no need now. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Chambers of Health WORKERS (specificities) At the same time, you have given me good attention to informing the Technical Service in good time, as well as all MPs, but to know the people of the professional service, today we will work until the end; Mr. Momchilov just asked, please, this is a notice by the Rules of Procedure. Today we'll only be working until the debate is over in detail on the agenda, and I guess it'll be this one, but I can't decide. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Živodarka Dacin, Goran Ilic, Ljiljana Nestorović, Meko Omerović, Paja Momčilov, Miroslav Nedeljković, Mileta Poscurica, Goran Cvetanović, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Sreto Perić, Vojislav Milajić, Bozidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Miljko Čevrić, Milomir Dunjic, Milivoje Vuković, Dragoslav Milković, Branislav Blažić and Zoran Mašić, as well as an amendment to the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. A report by the Health and Family Committee, the revision of the Health and Family Committee's report of 21 November 2005, the Legislative Committee's report and the government's opinion on the amendments submitted. National MP Goran Ilic withdrew the amendments he submitted to Article 7 and Article 49 in writing. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23162	We have now completed one law, but I can't help but notice, it's always been the custom to hear the opinion of the promoter after the debate. We don't hear anything. Suffering and quiet. Why didn't you let yourself into the air now, like when I was saying, that pain and silence, to hear the citizens, and then to judge what that torment and silence meant? We discussed the meaning of silence here, but now we don't know what this means. Does that mean - I agree, and I won't say. Does that mean I have no arguments? Does this mean - I demean parliament and MPs. Or that means, what you've been doing all day, it's worthless. There's no spell. It's unusual for the Assembly. The Assembly is a collective mindset, thinking of an organ that thinks and exclusively thinks create laws. We don't have the opposite side here. There's no dialogue. What's this about? Where did this autism come from? It is very unusual for us Serbian radicals, and we would like to hear some explanation. But it's time, so let's get back to work. This law belongs to system laws, it's extremely important. We Serbian radicals believed that when a whole system law complex is passed, which is a law on health care, on insurance and on chambers, they would then take a better path in the organisation of health services. We are deeply disappointed with the solutions that offer us all three laws. Right away, let me say one general opinion and one general view of the Serbian Radical Party. We've talked a long time about this bill. However, we will not support this law. We just said that briefly in the principle debate, because we didn't have enough time to explain why we wouldn't support it. We will not support one law that is restrictive and only brought in to further discipline healthcare professionals and doctors. We don't want an extra sophisticated inquisition for a doctor's call, who only cares about the tasks and the punishment of a doctor. We don't want to have a premeditated license like this. We are opposed to such solutions, and we will also dispute these solutions in this debate on details. We didn't have a chance to explain it in detail, because we had very little time at our disposal in the debate in principle. The doctors are tired of being harassed. The chamber, which will have a court, where they will judge doctors for professional and ethical mistakes... Ethics can be judged and it's okay, but we're being tried for professional mistakes, and this is how we're unprotected, and we're in a miserable position like this, we don't agree. We don't agree to a chamber that will issue a license to be paid. We don't want to pay extra fees, we're getting low wages. We don't see the purpose of setting up a clerk's apparatus, a huge one, which needs to be further exploited economically. Our diploma and what we've done through specialization, it's our license. We want it to be a mandatory continuous education, according to world norms and principles. We don't want you to disrespect us by working under surveillance. We've been studying for a long time, six years, specializing in four years, and one of you is about to find yourself taking away our license and working under custody. Enough of that humiliation. Such a chamber is a shameful chamber, it's not in the interest of a doctor. Find it in that chamber where you defend the doctor's interest. Time's going on insolently, so we can go back to our own member. What's it say? Because of our citizens and viewers, I'm going to quote. I ask that my time be denied, Mr. President, the quotes will be longer. The first member is not a debt, and he says: "This law establishes chambers of health workers, as independent, professional organisations, regulates membership in chambers of health workers, jobs, organisations and work chambers, mediation in disputes and courts of honor, as well as other issues of importance for the work of chambers. "Now I'm going to read the motionary's answer. Let's see who understands something from you and the auditorium that's watching us. I quote: "The amendment is not accepted because the chambers of healthcare professionals (as well as other chambers established for certain types of professions) are independent and professional organisations, which carry out the tasks laid down by law. The fact that in chambers compulsory healthcare professionals are employed in health institutions whose founder is state-owned, or health institutions established by private property funds, as well as in private practice, i.e. members of chambers and health workers who are founders of private practice, does not deny the fact that chambers are independent and professional organisations". What'd you figure out? If anyone's figured it out, congratulations immediately. We go further: "The issue of ownership of health institutions, i.e. private practice, is not an important condition for membership in the chambers of health workers, since all healthcare professionals, regardless of the forms in which they carry out the profession, must carry out their profession in accordance with the principles of professional ethics, i.e. under the same conditions prescribed by both the Health Protection Act and the Health Care Chamber Act. In addition, chambers are a classic example of professional organisations, not professional organisations, since they unite, as members of the chamber, precisely those performing the profession of health care professionals. The organisation of expert associations is conducted in accordance with other regulations, and above all regulations governing the area of association of citizens." That's an explanation. Whoever understands, I congratulate you again, it's already a great capacity to understand and understand this. What did we suggest? We said the words "independent" and "professional". The hypocrates, who is the creator of ethics (the 1948 Geneva variant is generally accepted in all countries of the world, so we have our own ethical code we adhere to), he said of medicine about like this – medicine is the death of the immortal nobles of the gods. It's not medicine, of course. That's what he thought and wanted. Many are raising medicine to this pedestal unwarrantedly, saying that we are obliged to be more ethically inclined than other citizens of our country, because we are doing a human job and that we are obliged to show more ethics in business. Modern medicine and a medical call rests on three things. First, on expertise. The expertise is a synthesis of theory and practice, you'll agree, rests on ethical principles. We have the Hippocratic oath, which is guaranteed enough. Then we have something third, and that third is called deltology. Deontology speaks of the rights and duties of doctors. That trinity, that's what our practice rests on. If we only have ethics, without expertise, it means, if a man is ethical, if he's sacrificed, if he's human, it's purely charity. It's not medicine. That's not worth it, we get it. If, on the other hand, you have an excellent expert, and it doesn't adhere to ethical principles, it's not good, it doesn't look at the whole of man, it doesn't see the fullness of human identity. And that's quite clear. Then there's the deanthology that needs to help, to say what medical duties and medical rights are. The chamber as imagined, where it sits together in that chamber and doctors from private practice and doctors from the state service, cannot exist. He can't, why? The profession of a doctor of private practice exists, as is the profession of a doctor in health care. When I'm a doctor, it's not a profession, it's a profession. When I'm a doctor, it's an occupation, because of this answer from you. Why do I say that? I appeal to the Constitution of Serbia, which says in article 35 -- everyone has the right to work, guarantees freedom of work, free choice of profession and employment. The doctor's a profession, not a profession. Professionally, there's a profession as a free artist. It's a profession. The profession includes in itself ways in which you do your job. It is important, and it is quite clear that if it is mandatory for my membership in the chamber, it cannot be independent, because there are two reasons that end this independence. The first is, civil servants regulate their status by the Labour Act, collective contract, trade union and individual. So my professional duties and rights are regulated by the Labour Act and these union deal. What about the privates? They are a special activity that this law recognises, and these professional goals are not equal, they are different. It must be respected, you don't respect it. We felt, in fact, that it is necessary, as is the case in Slovakia, to necessarily introduce a chamber only for those who are private, and voluntarily for civil servants, since their full professional activity is covered by the Labour Act, collective union contract and individual trade union contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23163	Does anyone else want to follow this amendment? When speech is per amendment, there is no such option, only when it is according to the Rules of Procedure, while a member of the Rules of Procedure is quoted, the time is taken. It's not a dispute, we're doing everything we can, but just taking care of it. Here you go, Mr. Bliss.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23164	Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun to discuss an extremely important law, the law on medical and pharmaceutical chambers, the law most discussed in 2000. After the revolution, in this post-revolutional enthusiasm, on television and newspapers there was a debate on medical chambers. We really expected that law to come soon. He had many things to settle, however, for five years one law was to be written that had about five, six pages. It wouldn't be so bad if I didn't have a draft law on medical and pharmaceutical chambers here in 1994. He's a little yellow, but we keep all these laws, even those in the 1994 draft. Compared to these two laws, it is in that first article that we see that the legislator was just copying this 1994 law. Not everything, but he better have written it all down. The draft law that worked for the Serbian Medical Society is, in any case, far better than the law given by the ministry. What was thrown out of order not to be completely overwritten has been thrown out of what is right and inserted into what does not fit in at all. What this law also shows, and what in some ways depicts today in Serbia when it comes to health care, doctors, medical practice, it is an anti-medical or anti-doctoral hysteria. On television, in newspapers, on radio, and even for congregation speakers, you will hear a direct attack on the medical profession, on people who have worn and carry the greatest burden of social change. It's not since yesterday, it's been before; and formerly health care salaries were small to serve social peace, to simply show – so don't you rebel in businesses, see how doctors have small salaries; when they have small salaries, how human and hard they work, so you also have to have small salaries. Today is about corruption. Now we're going to attack and keep calling some doctor who, no one can justify it, took 200, 300 euros, but these stole the whole country, they're not even talked about. Then the state will say it's fighting corruption by finding a doctor for 100 euros or getting a chicken. Millions of euros each time being robbed in this country are unlikely to pay attention. Therefore, it is that this article, and others, does not speak at all about the interest of the doctor, but again of the repressive measures tries to create a new organization, which will, in addition to all of these others who exist in society, find repression, punish, take the right to work for doctors, appoints a guardian who will watch over his head as well as what he does. Then we ask the question of what medical colleges are for, commissions that give and approve specializations, even these criteria, if now some new ones are going over their heads to decide how they work. Normally, no one is against it, against a continuous education. She's necessary, she's needed, she can only bring good, but from this you obviously can't see it. So I think, in addition to a good desire to do this, this, as you say when you describe some work, is well written, but the theme is missed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23165	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ( b) Any other parliamentary group? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23166	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on the law on chambers begins, and I feel the need to say something about the law, given that we have already heard at the beginning of some qualifications that do not stand. It is a very important law, system law, that Serbia has not had an independent and professional organisation for six decades. I am deeply convinced that by forming chambers of health workers and the reputation of health care professionals and the quality of health services, they will get one quite different, much higher level than they are now. All that the law provides – mandatory membership of healthcare professionals and mandatory work permits that the health care workers chamber will issue to those who are dealing with health care – I think it can contribute to a greater quality, and it cannot be a liability to any development of health care or something that will reduce the reputation of healthcare professionals and the quality of health services.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23167	Mr. Maric, this isn't a debate about the law at all, this is about the law in particular. We're discussing amendments. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23168	I'm reporting for the presentation of my esteemed colleague Maric. I was being specific, I was talking about the first member, and I was proving that we had a common interest, when we were talking about the doctor's chamber. Our profession unites, that's what's the same, and that's why we're private doctors together in the Serbian Doctor's Society, so we're interns in the Internist section, we're a bunch of gynecologists like me, then we're in the Ginological Section, and when we're as Mrs. Karanović interns, it's the Internist section. It's a profession, what's a sign of equality, but it can't be a sign of equality between private practices, because it's completely different. Yeah, buddy, it's the Constitution, I quote you the Constitution. Where does the Constitution speak of profession? Where do they deal with that problem? I made it clear to you that there is a profession, a Serbian medical society. What's the waist? We look at science and the way it's supposed to work to be professional and to heal well and properly, and we deal with publicity and it's clear what it is. There's more ethics, it's based on humanity, but there's delinthology. Deontology is science, that's what needs to be known, and that deontology deals with the duties and rights of doctors. There are almost no rights here in this way, and there are many things, not duties, but punishments. We're not going to let a medical crew through a chamber like this, in this way imagined, expose itself to further harassment. It's absolutely, I measure every word, harassing. Who is this chamber independent of? Probably considered by the state when you say independent, or by God independent, or by what is she independent? If it is independent of the state is not independent because state workers are members, the state pays those workers. There is no mode of being independent of the state, if the state workers are necessarily there, and the state has prescribed them conditions, I said, labour law and these union rules. Therefore, the Bar Association does not exist for free, lawyers are private entrepreneurs. The judges don't have a courtroom. It's illogical, because it's a specific feature of that profession. The legislator got into a trap, didn't honor the Constitution, I know what he wanted, but that's not the case. I've linked myself to their argument which is quite incomprehensible, extensive and which reads this category and honors us from the Serbian Radical Party that we don't understand what's what. It is not common to private doctors and doctors from the state service that they have a common matter of profession and profession. It's common, and our profession is different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23169	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23170	The MP Momchilov explained nicely from a linguistic aspect his objection to the introduction of the word "professional"; we suggest that instead of the word "professional" we use the words "activities". I wouldn't say that again. Activity is what a person of a particular profession does. It should be said, as colleagues have already noted, that our profession with impatience for decades awaited the law on the medical chamber. The fact is that colleagues wanted the chamber to be established, expecting that the chamber would fix something in the position of health workers, especially doctors, that it would in some way represent the interests of its members, that they would be protected through the chamber in the performance of their work and that some mutual solidarity would develop through the chamber and that special chambers would protect their members from the measure of the executive authority. Instead of all the doctors thinking they're going to get a chamber, we're going to get one body that can be said to harass its members, with various requirements and regulations. We'll get a body that will literally have the power of repression over its members. It is a body that will have the opportunity to impose various sanctions, a wide range of criminal measures of which some sanctions are literally humiliating for doctors, such as that measure to prohibit independent work for a certain period. So it's not forbidden to work, it's self-serving work, which means the doctor will have a tutor in his workplace. As for continued medical education, which will be required to obtain a licence, i.e. to avoid the possibility of losing a license, it is more formalist approach. No one has anything against continuous education, it's something that is meant for every action, but here it will be highly formalized and doctors will be placed in a position to constantly pursue some criteria, some points to preserve that license. What is certain is, after the adoption of this law on health care, that is to say, the employees in it will find some more unpleasantness, except for those we have been exposed to throughout the decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23171	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an amendment to Article 2 and we see again the comparison between the laws we received, the yellow one, and this one from 1994, the draft Serbian Doctor's Society. You can see, in fact, in that comparison with the intention of one promoter and the intention of another promoter. You can see that relationship thinking and strategy with each other. Now I'm going to read it to you, and you're going to be able to compare what's right, what's better and what's meant. Today's law in Article 2 states that chambers are set up to improve conditions for performing a doctor's profession – improving conditions has nothing to do with chambers, nor can these chambers in themselves do – and now lists: dentists, pharmacists, etc. What was essentially our proposal and how we're looking at it is that the chamber, first of all, needs to deal with protecting the patient's interest, on the one hand, and protecting the doctor's interest, on the other hand. This is essential in regulating the relationship between the patient and the doctor, and this is very well defined by the 1994 draft Serbian Doctoral Society, which says in Article 1 that chambers are established to protect the professional interests of organised participation in improving the health of citizens, identifying professional attitudes to perform medical or dental practices, encouraging the professional training of doctors and dentists, providing assistance to doctors and dentists and members of their families. The Serbian medical society in its proposal is still caring for doctors and their families. He's worried that the chamber itself is the one that should protect the interests of its members in the first place. The tasks of the doctor's chamber are particularly (I will read this to you and it is certainly better worked to define these tasks in relation to the need to improve the conditions for performing the profession): 1) to protect and represent the interests of doctors and users of their services; 2) to take care of the reputation of doctors, discipline in performing a doctor's call and to make their call in accordance with the relevant code of medicinal ethics; 3) to monitor and analyse the work of doctors who carry out their own professional medical work; 4) to provide legal, professional and other assistance to the doctors of the chamber members, as well as to take measures and to ensure that doctors are provided with risk insurance holders who can proceed because of a mistake, i.e. failure to perform a doctor's profession. So, according to the law, it controls, it gives its opinion, that it takes care of the rules and evenly called doctors, etc. very studioy and very precise. What is foreseen by the restrictive law, as provided for by the Law on Medical Chambers, could only be in the parallel and only if all doctors had, like in the West, several thousand euros in salary, if they were all provided and could in some way have the certainty that they do not have to worry whether their families will be left without bread tomorrow or not. This way, with a minimum salary of 300 euros, with the responsibility of standing over his head on one side of the chamber, on the other hand the court, on the third hand the patients, on the fourth side his family and care for survival, you place an additional burden on those people's backs. I think it's gone beyond measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23173	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Momchilov, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23174	The president warns me how much time I have. I'll speak very briefly now. All my colleagues explained, and then I asked a colleague who was not a doctor – you understood what I was saying, and he said nothing. To clarify, please, the profession is health care. We doctors are from the health profession, those lawyers need to listen, they're hosting something, they're all clear, it's an honor. The profession or call doctor, it's our profession or call, and the profession, it's our economic and legal status and the profession is... Here again, Minister, since these associates were distracting us: therefore, the profession is health care, profession or call, the constitutional category of occupation is a doctor and that is our call, that is our profession. The profession is determined by economic and legal status and then a professional basketball player, amateur, these are the conditions. It's not basketball, it's not doctors, as you tell us we don't know what's what. We know what's what. So, in private practice, a doctor and a civil service, it's a profession. What we keep telling you, our civil servants, the Labour Act prescribes working conditions, and I don't know what it's called the Law of Private Action, you know better, or as the name is, I can read, the Business Society Act, Minister, here I tell your lawyer, it won't help me, therefore, the Business Society Act. So the Labour Act is for civil servants, but they have opportunities for one and another, but again, take all dictionaries, list, take the Constitution, and then we can talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23175	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To Article 4. The amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to the 4th Amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23176	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 4, we intervene in the first and second attitude; in the first position, which Mr. Momchilov spoke of, we change the word "professional" in the word "activity", and in the second point is the obligation of membership in the chamber. But in the principle debate, we said that we didn't think that membership must be mandatory, that it was the thing of those who wanted to join in, especially those who worked in so-called. to the state sector or health institutions, and that those who wish to be all together should be members of the private sector chamber. Of course, the need to replace the word "professional" with this word "activity" is particularly evident in this second position, because it is taxed that membership in the chamber, as it says, is mandatory (and we, of course, suggest that it be voluntary) for healthcare professionals who work in social protection institutions, institutions for the execution of office sanctions, state bodies, colleges, schools of health professions. They're doctors all over the place, they got a degree, they're doctors, they're doctors, they're medical doctors, but they're not going to do their work, because in medical school they're going to teach anatomy, internal medicine, they're never going to be a doctor. Such a man could join if he wanted to, there's no need for his membership to be mandatory, there's no logic, because there's a mass of them who have spent their whole life working in a medical school or some other social institutions where they've never had contact with a patient, they've never had, nor will they have the possibility that what you're predicting, the chamber protects their interests, whether it's about their conflict with the employer, with unsatisfactory patients, who will again ask that the chamber intervene. On the side of all our disagreements, but the fact is that with the giving of large powers to the chamber, where we sometimes go ahead of constitutional solutions, as we have given in the explanation of the amendments, we can expect that circumstances will be created in which, by reason of some chamber president, the president of the branch, as you have predicted, will sometimes really focus on some doctor from private practice or in the public service, in some of the health institutions; indeed, it can happen by political basis, by the basis of some petty fittings, how we see that he writes in the paper about petty corruption affairs, neglecting all large, and beyond the rules and legal responsibility of the doctor, remain without a license and without work, without accreditation, and that he cannot work in his own establishment or any private office. We've listed members 34 and 35. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which clearly defines the legal responsibility of the doctor if he fails his treatment, and the right to work and union organisation, which is defined by the neighbouring member. So, it is very clearly defined regulation and it was not necessary to extend the chamber's jurisdiction with such things as we will see later, because you will explain in response to our amendments that they will answer criminally, that they may be shot and what not, and that he needs more responsibility of the chamber. The possibility of mutual induction of the chamber, ministry, minister, director of the firm, it really exists. In general, the question of the choice of leading people in all these chambers, which is also in the amendments, can arouse a fundamental doubt, when so much authority is given to the chambers, that sometimes it won't cost someone, someone gets robbed of their head. That's why we even tried to intervene through these amendments in terms of a few words, but they essentially change things. It's not the same if someone has to join in, pay membership fees, because if they join and pay membership fees, then they have to get an appropriate license; if they have to get a license, they never do the job, because what his license, how he's going to renew it, which is going to restore it if he's not working in the doctor's office, but he's simply a doctor of medicine, doing quite differently with the health profession of completely ephemeral things doing. Also, if doctors who teach chemistry, university physiology will have to be members of the chamber, because I don't see what they would be, they've never written a prescription in their life. So it makes sense why some people shouldn't and why probably, or if they really want to, or some other finding, other than binding, would be quite logical. I don't see any reason not to accept this kind of amendment intervention, except for the reasons of the kind that make you work this long, this hard, this is how you bother MPs and parliament. We will endure, of course, but there is a black Monday, where all this must be done, everything they have ordered you to bring, so night meetings, Dinkic, Dinkic to the ministers, and then make them fuck around the people, which would be best, and this applies to the profession and it has less meaning, because when the people listen to you maybe they think – they're great chambers, they'll just protect us from the arrogant doctors. If there's no morals in doctors, it'll be hard to protect anyone. You need to work on your morale. Someone thinks morale can be improved by higher wages, because wages are really low. I don't think the salary can be fixed, but the wages are so low that they deserve at least a formal cover to be raised at least through it, because there might be less bribes. They are low to that extent, when it comes to bribery and corruption, which will be the subject of chamber operations, because many people embarrass themselves, many doctors embarrass themselves for small money, for small money. Some don't look, you can't even get a "good day" without a few thousand euros. It's a really effective state, and the larger the institution, the higher the level of protection, the more centrally, as I would say, the centrifugal force is gravitating towards the capital, of course the tariffs are larger. It is understood that experts are also higher, so the team and tariffs are higher. Let's not say it doesn't exist. We can't think of it as an ephemeral phenomenon, as marginal and spordic. Maybe it's marginal and controversial. That, unfortunately, de facto exists. I don't see that these chambers, with all the powers you've given them, will be more important to change such an item, such a doctor's relationship, but they can cost you someone, and that someone, almost potentially innocent, or with a very small one, if at all when the matter is principled, still took ten or a thousand euros, if the thing is principled... I'm really looking at it in principle. It's the same for me; if I were to judge, I'd judge everyone equally. But, of course, I'm not in a position to judge about it, but I'm in a position to talk about the shortcomings of a legal project and I think I need some suggestions that we're making to respect, because they're in place, and as you say it doesn't change the spirit of the law really in anything, especially this intervention in Section 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23177	Thank you, Mr. Pocurica. Anyone else? Here you go, Mr. Bliss. MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23178	Ladies and gentlemen, very short. You really should think this through. Does it make sense to build a chamber in which membership will be mandatory for healthcare professionals? Does it make sense to force someone into an organization or not? If it's a principle of volunteering, it means that every doctor, dentist, pharmacist, pharmacist will be a member of the chamber if she really does realize and protect his interests. Interest should be a basic motive for whether someone will join or not. If there's no interest, and you force the doctor to be a member, then we really don't see any logic. It makes sense that it should be doctors and healthcare professionals who are private. This is perfectly normal, even to think that this congregation has two larger ones, one bigger private, another larger health workers in the public service, so that they can communicate better and that it can work better. Like this, I don't think that would be good, especially Article 5, who says that membership in the chamber can even have those doctors of medicine, dentists, pharmacists who don't do health work. Does this mean that a member of the chamber can now be someone who's a taxi driver, who's actually a team, and he's finished something from health care and now he's going to be a member of such a chamber? Which makes sense, it's really not clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23179	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. Anyone else? No, I don't. Thank you. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Živodarka Dacin. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear colleague Dr. Maric of the G17 said we've been waiting 60 years for this law on medical chambers. That is true, because the first medical chamber in Serbia worked from 1923 to 1944, but it is also true that after 5 October 2000, it was announced that such a law would be under emergency procedure on the agenda. And here, it's been waiting for five years, so today, on Saturday, we have to work under this law like, I don't know, the end of the world, so if we've waited 60 years we have to adopt this bill right now. The draft law was already in front of MPs after October 5th, but has been amended and amended many times in the meantime. Large dilemmas were, above all, when it came to the representation of private practice and doctors from the state institution, but I think the dilemma remains today, especially when it comes to the views of the Serbian Radical Party. Higher targets of the chamber certainly cannot change with a change of political will. The chamber must primarily regulate the relationship between doctors and patients, between doctors themselves, as well as doctors and society in general. The draft law does not define a provision on how the chambers of different healthcare professionals function, which is precisely seen in this Article 6, especially when it comes to their mutual position. And if you are already insisting on the adoption of the law on chambers, the chamber must be like a monitoring organism, adapted to the medical profession, as well as to life. The proposed member of the law does not provide the right way to realise the status, or function of the chamber, as you originally imagined. The proposal's obligation is to consult many other laws, above all, a law that regulates the field of labour relations, the Criminal Law, so that the chambers do not assume many powers they should not have. In the proposed law, there is a huge disproportion between what is required of healthcare professionals, on the one hand, and the socio-economic position, on the other hand. European standards are introduced, high moral principles, licences, permanent education, and Balkan salaries, when it comes to doctors. Membership in the Chamber of Health Care Professionals is mandatory for doctors of medicine, dentists, graduate pharmacists of medical biochemistry, medical specialists of clinical biochemistry, as well as for nurses and healthcare professionals, who, as a profession in the Republic of Serbia, carry out health services in health institutions, above all, and when it comes to private practice. In addition, the obligation to join chambers and healthcare professionals who carry out health work with other employers is prescribed, in accordance with the existing law. It is proposed that healthcare professionals be voluntary members of the chamber, in case health care is not performed as a profession. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party requires that Article 6 be deleted where members of the medical chamber are defined, means five groups: doctors of medicine, dentists, pharmacists, biochemists, as well as nurses and health technicians. For what? Because if you look at the first point: "The members of the Serbian medical chamber are doctors of medicine who, as a profession in the Republic of Serbia, carry out the jobs of doctors in health institutions and private practice, i.e. with the second employer of Article 4(2) of this Law", it is precisely the position of Article 2 of Article 4 that is controversial, because membership in the chamber is also mandatory for healthcare professionals who carry out health care activities in institutions of social protection, institutions for the execution of administrative sanctions, in state bodies, in colleges, or in medical professions, medical clinics that are educated by employers and in other institutions where healthcare is carried out in accordance with the law. As you can see, it's really quite contradictory and vague, first of all because it's a legal merger between private entrepreneurs and civil servants, you have employers and employees in one organization. I'll remind you that next to a lawyer who's had their own operating chamber for a long time, you have all the other lawyers who don't have their own chamber. Therefore, representatives of the Serbian Radical Party also advocate that the private sector, i.e. private practice, has this mandatory medical chamber because of its expertise, because of the control of everything that is happening, while health institutions that are under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, i.e. in the state sector, should function as they have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23181	Thank you, Mr. Cvetanović. Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23182	We have reached Article 7, which is extremely controversial for representatives of the Serbian Radical Party. The member's pretty busy. He's talking about trusted business. First, our argument is that this chamber, as imagined, is supposed to be mandatory for private doctors, as it is mandatory for lawyers... It is logical that all private doctors who operate in the private health sector can also be registered in this way. It is disputed that Article 7(1) states that the chamber adopts the Code of Professional Ethics (hereinafter referred to as the Ethics Code). Ethics code, that's a fixed term. He's exactly defined, and you know what it means. He's putting himself in the back, and now he's constructing an unusual code of professional ethics. In the health care law, which we hope to have tomorrow, we will have a chance to talk about, of course, if the minister does not withdraw the laws, if he does not agree with us that they are not good and that it is better to work them out, so that Serbia and citizens have better laws, then you will see that there is also an ethical committee, or an ethical committee. Both the Ethics Committee and here, the Ethics Committee, and each other, will bring a code of ethics. For what? Why? Whose older man is he? When there can be no ethical code, when it's already some special ethical code... You know, serious people say -- I don't need ethics, I don't need ten commands from God, there's everything we need to talk about, and they're not far from the truth, most of them will agree with me. So, it bothers us that it brings the code of ethics, and they'll bring the code there, and what it's going to be different, we'll see. The most controversial part, point 3, is now "issues, renews and withdraws the authorisation for independent work (hereinafter referred to as the licence) to the members of the chamber which are entered in the directory of the chamber members referred to in point 2) of this attitude and keeps the directory of issued, renewed and withdrawn licences". We could still talk about the license, but it's like "renewing and withdrawing the approval of self-serving work", in which profession is there still such a monstrous, independent and unsuspecting work, unless you're technically incompetent? But they're usually interns. You're licensed not by taking away the rights you've acquired, but you haven't reached a level that's wanted for something, so you need supervision. This license brings us into such an unequal and offensive position compared to all other professions. We heard the license was also established for construction engineers. In some professions it is still going on, but in such a way that our license is withdrawn, it is clear why the legislator cannot do so, and the legislator would prefer to act on a maximum radical solution, to completely withdraw the license. He knows he can't. It's a constitutional right to work. He couldn't do it, and then he said, "We're going to take down the right to work on your own." Why do we think it's illegal? It is not allowed because with two members of the Criminal Code, which we have adopted in this assembly, we have made it clear that we have made it possible for the state to defend itself against our professional mistakes and to defend itself against our corrupt actions. We've introduced a member who's talking about medical corruption, and in the Criminal Code, another member is talking about malpractice, professional error, so criminally he can answer, you're going to jail. There is a possibility of civil litigation; if someone thinks it's damaged by our treatment, actions and inaction, they can further through civil litigation to make up for it. Now that it's all there, someone's saying this is going to put into order a medical profession by repression. He won't. The repression doesn't fool you. What's it supposed to do that we don't have this kind of nadal solution? It is necessary to implement simply positive legal regulations that pursue indemnity, professional error, criminality, and that pursue bribery and corruption. Here's the last case that happened: a certain colleague, of course I won't speak names, was sentenced a few days ago to four years in prison for corruption. As an additional measure, the court gave him five years to withdraw his work permit. So if I lose my civil rights criminally, I lose my right to work and that's fine. Don't let anyone punish me now, don't create an atmosphere for us, it's a desperate atmosphere in our collectives anyway. Why is she so desperate? We suffer the dictatorship of directors, politically similar, from two parties. He's suffering from it. I can list medical institutions and read letters that come to me personally as president of the Committee. And now, here's the inquisition extra, someone's gonna take something away from you, and you've been studying how much you've studied. Let the state, the rule of law, do its job to its strong institutions, sanction professional mistakes, indemnity, sanction and what is related to corruption. We absolutely agree that the chamber should make judgments if the ethical code is not respected, but it cannot take away the right to work unless the court takes away that right. You can put anyone on a pillar of shame, publish in the newspaper – that and that member acted unethically, because of that and that. That's okay, that's what happened before. But you can't... Imagine you take away the private physician, who you put in here, and he's a doctor, working with his means of working in private practice, as you say, what does that mean? It's bankruptcy. His firm can close the door then. How can that work? Who's gonna watch him when he doesn't have a supervisor? So if he is private, and most of them are private, you say to him, "Here is your supervisor, so that his nurse may be his overseer?" So it can't be like that. It is said to organise courts of honor to determine the violation of professional duties and responsibilities of members of the chamber, as well as to express measures for these injuries. That's what I'm saying, don't judge us, judge us, judge us, and the quality of work and knowledge is achieved differently. Point 9) states that the chamber shall determine the amount of compensation for the entry into the registers of the members of the chamber referred to in point 2) of this item, the amount of compensation for the issue and renewal of the licence, as well as the compensation for the issue of copies from the registers, certificates and certificates of records kept by the chamber. So, one administrative and repressive apparatus is introduced that collects the registration, which charges everyone to issue a document and license. Why? That's how much you didn't respect a private doctor in all your legal solutions. What does that mean now? We at State Services can hope that the company will pay us, maybe, I don't know if it will, and maybe it won't, we don't get it. I'm telling you, we don't get big salaries so we can pay extra unnecessarily. We better pay for the book, we better pay for the Internet subscription and perfect ourselves, rather than give money here, throw for nothing, for a mere and empty administration that can be thrown into something that's very unpleasant and lead to more chaos in the health profession. The question is, if a private is to pay for it now, will you release it if the state pays us? If you want, then write it down, write it down somewhere, and say it somewhere. You have humiliated him so much that our citizens, here we keep telling you, have the right and the parties to choose, have the right to choose banks, tourist agencies, all have the right when it comes to service activity, just can't choose a private doctor, in Serbia that goes to Europe, hang a badge and say – we are going to Europe. Hardly. That road doesn't lead to Europe. Here says point 11 - issues the identification number to the members of the chamber who have the licence. We think we should delete this section of "who have a license" and it should be without it. You say here - trusted business. Let's ask you who's transferring powers to the chamber. You said it, and we'd like to know who's carrying the powers. I guess that's the basic thing to say, first of all. We don't understand, some god, some abstract body; this is the law, you have to be precise when you bring something like that. That's a bunch of our remarks, you got key objections right on Article 7. Doctors don't need a chamber like this, we don't want to pay for a big-ass administrative apparatus that's supposed to run a register like this. You're a state body, so you don't know how many doctors and privates there are. When they ask you how many private doctors there are, you don't know how to say it. No one knows how many private doctors there are in Serbia. You know there are 3,000 offices, and how many doctors there are, if anyone asks you, and we asked you indirectly a few times, and I'll show you evidence, you don't know that. Now we're building a paraparameter next to the state, which will charge for its services. It's not an interest in the profession. Interest is a continuous education, and this continuous education, if you pay for it, it's worth it, it's the best investment, the best investment is in knowledge and people. If you're making people hell, and this smells like something like that, it's not a good solution. The doctors didn't imagine that kind of chamber. Now they're going to say -- so what do you radicals say and criticize, we imagined that this ethical component would be dominant, that doctors could influence through the chamber. You listed it later, that they have an initiative to pass the law, the initiative, that means to run. We thought they were partners, not initiators, but an equal partner with you legislators. In an equal dialogue to bring policy and legal solutions, and based on the profession, through the professional association of the Serbian Doctor's Society. We thought, here's a triumvirate that politics is created through a strategy, first policy, then a strategy of health care, legal provisions and sublegal acts, in a partnership between the government. Minister, professional organisations of the Serbian Doctor's Society and our association, the chamber. That's what we thought. That's not what we get. What do I have as an impression and we can't get rid of that impression? With the new law, you won't be setting up directors like you're doing now. Through these directors, and this is your Praetorian Guard, which you are scrambling with doctors around Serbia today, and I can give you examples of... (President: Time. I'm finishing up, you're losing that kind of control now through the chamber, and we'll show you later how you want to control all the doctors. We don't think that's right, and that's why we're proposing solutions like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23183	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Anyone else by this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verice Radet. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Health and Family Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23184	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I have to go by the Rules of Procedure, but it's about the amendment. This happened twice in a package of these so-called. Health laws: an amendment that I have submitted to Article 8, the Legislative Committee has decided to propose to the National Assembly to reject the following amendments, which are amendments to Article 8 and Article 39. So there is no such possibility in the Rules of Procedure. Since this is repeated, I would really like to warn my fellow Members of the Legislative Committee who took part in this not really doing this kind of thing. The work of the Legislative Committee is regulated by Articles 79, 147, 146, 145, 145 of this Rules of Procedure. In Article 146, the Legislative Committee will reject the untimely, incomplete and offensive amendments, which will be reported to the National Assembly. Neither untimely nor incomplete, nor is the amendment with offensive content, and worst of all, is it rejected, but Milos Aligrudic suggests that the assembly rejects it. That's amazing. I really ask you, Mr. President, to make an account, in order to inform the President of the Legislative Committee that it cannot be played by the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, your Rules of Procedure are very bad, restrictive, nothing, but whatever it is, it's something we need to apply and what we need to stick to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23185	Mrs. Radeta, please, just a moment, since I've repeatedly turned my attention to the service that way, and I don't know how it happens... But certainly exactly that: the amendments are being rejected or rejected, and the reasons are just the ones you listed, or it's said to be legally possible. It's a neutral body. The idea of writing... I read every time. He didn't accept. So I'm trying to read it right. I don't know, there's a warrant to check if it's been typed or concluded in the end that some amendments have been rejected... But it can't. In any case, he's distracted, he'll be done. Thank you again for the intervention. I'll give it back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23186	I intervened because I am absolutely certain that this is not about accidental failure, about error, it is obviously about intent to affect the MPs in deciding on this amendment. For that reason, I've turned my attention to this. So, as regards the amendment to Article 8, Article 8. The bill has a superscription – the rest of the chamber's affairs. You have heard, ladies and gentlemen, from fellow Momchilov, when it comes to the entrusted affairs of the chamber, which are the objections of the Serbian Radical Party brought through the amendment to that previous member. Article 8 is also a consequence of this amendment to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 4 which speaks of membership in the Chamber. It is necessary to stress that the principled position of the Serbian Radical Party is that membership in the chamber cannot be mandatory except for doctors from private practice. It doesn't make sense that someone who works at a state hospital has to be a member of this chamber. For example, there is a Society of Judges, but judges are not required to be members of this society, but lawyers are obliged to be members of the bar because the bar registers them. I think it can be put on parallel and that the amendment to Article 4 has been fully involved, and as a consequence these amendments to the other members. Of course, I understand that this opposes your concept. Obviously, we have a different approach and a different concept, but you're going to let what we're proposing have legal support. Of course, your right as a government, as well as the congregation's majority to define for this solution of yours, does not mean that we will not insist through the whole law on this, because the essence of our remarks is mostly of this kind and most of the amendments arise from that. When it comes to things like this, we always wonder what's behind it. Is membership in chambers mandatory because of membership rates? Let's say that's something we can consider one of the motives for the obligation of membership in these chambers. When we speak specifically of this Article 8, amendments are proposed in point (1), (6), (7) and (2). In point 1) you predicted that, in addition to these other jobs, the chamber represents and protects the professional interests of members of the chamber in performing the profession. This is a completely pointless formulation and does not mean anything – it represents and protects the professional interests of members of the chamber in performing the profession. We have proposed to say – representing and protecting the interests of the members of the chamber in performing health work. We need to know what we're talking about. And this is one of those (you've already learned, hopefully, our views on the accuracy of the members) general formulations. When something is general, and it's contained in the law, it really doesn't mean anything. It must be something that's clear and accurate. In point 6), it says: "participate in determining the health care nomenclature" etc. "and the criteria for the conclusion of a health care contract, in accordance with the law governing health insurance." This from the beginning is fine, and we said: "as well as in determining the criteria and criteria of economic and legal relations with health insurance organisations". It's much more precise than this "in accordance with the law governing health insurance". You can tell which one is being arranged. We're passing all these laws now, and we need to know what law is called. In point 7 you said – the chamber proposes criteria and criteria for determining the prices of health services provided in private practice, i.e. the price of health services provided in health institutions, which are not provided by means of compulsory insurance, as well as the price of those health services. That's the problem. There's a rabbit in that bush. We said it should be said: "proposes criteria and criteria for determining the price of health services from basic health insurance, as well as prices not provided from the means of compulsory health insurance. So it's not a good approach. You're shutting down whoever's responsible for setting the prices. It is known to be the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The chamber, as something on a voluntary basis, according to the Serbian Radical Party, could not possibly have this kind of authority. You further said in point 12) that the chamber "represents the interests of members of the chamber who perform private practice in concluding a contract with the organisation of health insurance. "We said – represents the interests of members of the chamber who perform private practice in economic and legal relations with the Republic Institute and health insurance organisations. So again more concrete, more precise and certainly more acceptable. I don't think there's any reason for you not to accept this amendment, Minister, because it doesn't essentially change your concept. Everything you've come up with through this law is covered. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I said in my explanation that these proposals referred to in points 1), 6), 7) and 12) of Article 8 have mixed competences which have chambers as associations of entrepreneurs, employers and free professions of the rights and obligations of health workers employed in state bodies and whose rights and duties are determined by the Labour and General Act, special and individual collective agreements. Why did I read this? To distract you and remind fellow Members of the Labour Act. At that time, we insisted that collective agreements must remain mandatory in the Labour Act, we managed even to pass that amendment and then remember the whole story and the confusion, Boris Tadic will not sign such a law, so he finally signed it, allegedly, although we did not discuss it again, and we were under obligation, according to the Rules of Procedure, to discuss the law again; so Resolute Minister Lalovic said the assembly had passed a criminal law, that we had to change it. They really did change it, not for one day, not only in these, but also in other segments that were exclusively in the interests of employees, not just in health care, but in general. So what happened again is what we say every time we talk to government representatives. You always trip over where you reject the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. In this case, it's about your colleague, Minister Lalovic, but you're on the move now. It would be good if you accepted this amendment. It doesn't touch your concept of the law, but it makes it more specific, tailored, and in a much better way it regulates what you imagine, and as far as the chamber's affairs are concerned. So we can't, and we can't force doctors to be mandatory members of the chamber. Membership in no chamber is binding, I stress; it is a legal chamber that registers lawyers, which should be the same with doctors in private practice. Perhaps then we would avoid what is now happening in practice in our health care. I have to give an example, since we're mostly citizens, they're letting us know what's going on in practice, and then we take the obligation to let you know, Minister, this way publicly. Maybe you don't know, so you can react. Let's say, it happens at the Zemun hospital that a man gets an emergency checkup this afternoon, gets some seizure and he gets a nurse there, after a long time comes and a doctor says, Mrs. Doctor, doesn't know what it is, but he has to get an emergency shot on the scanner, and the scanner in the hospital doesn't work, I recommend a scanner in, I think, Jovana Subotic Street in Zemun, go there, there you'll do that recording. You go there, it costs 100 euros, it's really recorded, but before it gets to the shoot, the patient's waiting there, it's dressing up in pain, and the gentleman who's sitting there says, wait a minute, now the doctor will. Believe it or not, there's this doctor who sent him to Subotic Street in Zemun. These things happen in health care, Mr. Minister. I want to believe that you don't know it, so I'm warning you and getting to know it, and if you know it, then it's really not good. In any case, you have to do something to improve the health situation on that side. It's not just a matter of laws; the fact is, I'm a lawyer and of course I know that the basis is that we have good legislation, but in order for society to function, in order for health care to work, there's a lot to change. You know, by some ethical code, you're not going to make someone honest. It must be much more rigorous, much more serious from the aspect of the state, the ministry doing, and these ethical codes, that you're taking over as from Europe, you know, someone who recognizes ethics, someone who's honest doesn't need a code. Sam knows he won't steal, that he won't abuse the work he's doing, especially when it comes to health care. It's very scary that someone who doesn't have money and doesn't have a good relationship in health has to wait for a checkup or a cure for a few months, and in the meantime, the disease goes so far as to die, and someone who has money can pay for it, or better say to pay for it and to solve it in time. It's something that's inadmissible. But I just want to point out, again, that it doesn't get the wrong impression, we don't think Serbian radicals that this type of crime, thieving, whatever they call it (the best way Serbs understand it best) is present in health care largely. Unfortunately, it's enough that in every hospital, in every home of health, you have one thief doctor, so that a picture is created that such a condition is in health care. We're convinced there's a lot more honest and honest doctors who do their job honestly and honestly and who don't need any ethical codes, who know what an ethical code is without reading it anywhere. But you have to take care of the much smaller number of people who are in fact jeopardizing literally the lives of Serbian citizens, their patients, and thus, of course, endangering the reputation of the government, the ministry and you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23187	Whether within the remaining one minute of the same parliamentary group... Mr. Jojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23188	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 7 provides for the withdrawal of the approval of independent work in point 3. I ask who has authorized the motionor and how it will be taken away from someone's right to work if it is in Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia guarantees freedom of work. In addition, in an explanation that you really acknowledge and say, "Article 7 proposes the tasks that the chamber performs as public authorities, i.e. as trusted jobs. Compared to current legal solutions, these jobs represent a significant newspaper, given that the chamber has been given as an extremely important authority – giving, renewing or withdrawing the authorisation for independent work. "I ask who gives such authority? Who gave you such authority? If that is provided for in the Constitution, I believe that it must be maintained, both the promoter and those who have prepared the law should take account of Serbia's constitution in the first row.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23189	Thank you, Mr Jojic, but we ended this before your parliamentary group debate on Amendment 8. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23190	Dear President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the debate on chambers has begun mainly with aspects related to chamber affairs. It's the most important debate regarding this law. Otherwise, I have tabled an amendment to Article 7 which regulates these entrusted tasks of the chamber and suggested that the procedure of prescribing the elements for giving, withdrawing the licence, and so on, all these important criteria should be governed by the chamber itself. However, given that the Health Protection Act has regulated it in a different way, and also regarding the solution that this law starts an absolutely new legal entity to operate in our practice, which is a chamber, and according to this, it has been found that this law restricts the affairs of the chamber in one way, not as it is in many other countries, and I am here holding the statute of the chamber of doctors from one country next door and something in transition is moving further, so it is explained that the beginning of the work of the chamber should be as it is imagined, because first we need to gain some experience relating to the functioning of this chamber, and then to spread those powers. I think we'll do it for sure. Accordingly, I withdrew this amendment of mine and one of the others that is attached to it, means that the criteria around the licence itself are determined by the chamber. For now, the Ministry will do so, and that applies to the other chambers' affairs. I hold that statute in my hand – I will not specify which country it is, but the experience of this country will be valuable to us – where, for example, in the other affairs of the chamber, 35 elements are listed, unlike 15 of them here. The chamber's starting to work, and we have one advantage here. I fully understand the Ministry. We expect the first results, and according to this the chamber will change its powers. As far as this amendment is concerned, the amendment applies to the other affairs of the chamber, so I'm talking about it. The amendment is to Article 8, which speaks of other chambers' affairs. The DSS won't vote for him, nor will the DSS vote for him on Article 7. What I'm trying to say and what I think we should understand, and viewers, and especially colleagues, in the right way -- it seems to me that there's a lot of ease in talking about something that really has nothing to do with the affairs of the chamber. It's the doctor's criminal responsibility. Today, speakers mentioned these elements regulated by Criminal Law. It's clear, let's say, there are five crimes, which are: non-infectious medical care, unconscious treatment, medical secrecy, false skill and false medical conviction. For such crimes, doctors go to jail. If someone is in immediate danger and asks for medical attention, the doctor refuses to give them help, worsen his health, the doctor will go to prison. If he unwittingly heals, he has applied an obviously inadequate remedy, does not apply hygiene measures, or has unwittingly acted, resulting in a worsening of health, he will go to prison. If he betrays a false medical conviction he will go to prison; if false warlocks go to prison, and if he gives away a medical secret, what he learns in the course of diagnostic and therapeutic proceedings, unless that secret is released by a court or just a person who's been treated, or it's a general medical interest, he will go to prison. That's not what we're talking about here. Practice has shown, this law should not be understood as a law that should in some way affect doctors and that they have a constant anxiety in their daily work. Absolutely the opposite. This chamber also represents what members of the chamber want - to be protected in these elements of their work, not just to control them in some way. Control must exist, and not criminal control that has existed in our legislation for years. Practice has shown that these crimes are not so often discovered for various reasons. One analysis of 15 years ago said they were compensated for health damages caused by the health system so small in this country that they were less than some of the funds collected in the case of traffic violations. So it's something else entirely. The question is if we don't need a dragon law that will affect us that way. We expect that these actions do not happen, but they exist, they are defined by law, and doctors, or all healthcare professionals, will come under the influence of these legal members. We expect this system to control the day-to-day work of doctors in the health system, both in private and in state, to improve the quality of work. So, not to be threatened with prison, but simply to be threatened with the possibility of withdrawing the license, so why not some elements that can come out of judgment decisions. It's much less dangerous and much less threatening doctors, if I may say so, than a prison sentence. We do not need doctors in prisons, we need doctors who work better every day and we have extremely good doctors and quality medical centres where doctors are educated and, of course, the education system should encourage these doctors to work well. These phenomena we're talking about, corruption, I really wouldn't tie them to the health system. It's a problem of society and it has to be solved. If they appear in the health system at a higher percentage than in other places, then it is simply necessary to apply the law and there is no dispute. If anyone has committed a crime, they have to go to jail. If this is corruption, then corruption is unrelated to the health system, and if these elements are criminal responsibility there are prison sanctions. I expect this to happen quite rarely, but for the daily work of a doctor who is not covered by these crimes, there must really be some control and some responsibility, the need for people to be educated and to do quality work. I repeat, that's what I was talking about in the opening statement, we don't need any additional bureaucratization of the system, and I don't expect the licensing system and the chamber functioning system to be bureaucratic, then this doesn't make sense, nor do I expect any additional costs. Doctors have small salaries, to say something that is a daily fact, doctors do their jobs if they work correctly to the benefit of citizens and should not have extra costs. It's supposed to be minimum costs and that's not the purpose of this law, at least that's how I understand it, but one control through the ethical code, through the courts' honors, and even through the withdrawal of licenses, there must be and it will further stimulate doctors. The system is large and certainly has errors in it, and the percentage of errors will be reduced if the elements of this law are properly applied. I expect the powers of the chamber to be greater in the future, and that is the promise of the ministry. [[The People's MP Pai Momchilov requests a replica of the presentation of MP Goran Ilic]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23191	To Mr. Ilic's exposure? It's not right. Wait a minute, we announced we were gonna take a break, but just to make it clear there's no reason. No one can deny the MP the right to represent his position, but in the event that he does something of the following things when representing his position, which is: if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP from another MP group, stating his name and name or function, or incorrectly interpreting his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. None of that happened. There is another, when he has the right of the president of the parliamentary group, but certainly the decision in this case is made by the president of the National Assembly and it is the only basis for replication. Since there's no basis for replication, and we said we'd have a five-minute break, then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23192	We're continuing our work. Mr. Momchilov, you asked for a replica, President Markovic told me. Okay, thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, before I begin to explain the amendment that I have submitted to Article 8 of the proposed law, I must conclude that, with all the shortcomings that this bill has in place on the medical chambers, which they have spoken of here justifiably or unwarrantedly, it is very important that, as soon as possible, this law begins to apply, because it is very important to form these medical chambers and to start working. Practices and examples in implementing this law will very quickly show what the shortcomings of the proposed law are and, of course, through changes and additions can be improved later, but once again I stress, it is a big thing that we finally get the medical chambers and they start to work. The government has adopted some of our key amendments that the SDP has submitted to the proposed law on medical chambers, some of which are not, and I will explain this opportunity why I think it is important that these amendments be adopted. So on Article 8, which defines the other tasks of the chamber, in addition to Article 7, which defines the entrusted tasks, I submitted the amendment, and at point 8). The article reads, "Besides the jobs of Article 7 of this Act, the chamber also performs the following tasks", and says point 8 "is an initiative for the adoption of regulations in the field of health care and health insurance". I would continue this sentence and say: "and participates in a public debate in the process of drafting laws proposed by the government in the field of health care and health insurance. "Why did I propose to add to point 8 this part? Because it's consistent with Article 77. The State Administration Act stipulates that ministries and special organisations are obliged to organise a public debate in the preparation of a law that significantly amends the legal regime in one area or which regulates issues of particular interest, as close as possible to the Rules of Procedure of the Government. Our amendment therefore suggested that the chamber be a public debate participant in the preparation of the laws proposed by the government in addition to the possibility of giving the initiative. In response to the Government's response to why the amendment refuses, it is said that the amendment is not accepted, among other things, because, on the basis of the proposed amendment, it would be discriminatory to participate in the public debate on the adoption of laws only for the chambers of healthcare professionals in relation to all the abovementioned entities. It is said that without the proposed amendment, it is the right of the chambers of health workers to participate in an organised and implemented public debate on the preparation of the law, both in the fields of health and in other areas, under the Law on State Administration. However, I think it would be good to say this here, not only to be understood, because in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government, it is very good in Article 40 that the programme of public debate and the deadline within which it is being conducted determines the competent committee of the Government, on the proposal of the Proposer. So I highly doubt that the public debate is being organised by announcing that there will be a public debate, and then whoever wants to take part, as defined here; Article 40. The Rules of Procedure say exactly that I am the Government's committee responsible for the programme of public debate and the deadline in which it is being conducted. Therefore, it would be very important to say explicitly in Article 8, as I have suggested in this amendment, that the chamber, in addition to giving an initiative for the regulation, is in the law, and participates in the public debate in the process of preparing legislation in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23194	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't answer the line, because I would still save time. I know it's hard to work, that these are abnormal conditions, and since we're most of us doctors, you don't need to especially explain it to you. I think even the auditorium, our citizenship, is clear that it's working in abnormal conditions, under a great psychological burden, and that we're not even in a state of war, that no elemental disaster has hit us, so we have to work this way and that it's a shame for a country that wants to go to Europe, who wants to be free of thought, speech comes to the best solutions in this high home. My esteemed colleague Ilic, with only a few sentences to refer to his exposure, said we should not threaten the Criminal Law. We're not even threatening, we're just saying what's there and a colleague's still spreading what's hanging on doctors when they can be held accountable. That's not controversial. We're just saying that this chamber shouldn't judge doctors for professional mistakes. We say it can be ethical and should judge ethically, we don't need a court, that's what we said. But there's one thing that's interesting. Recently here in the Assembly, in this high house, a meeting was held on Saturday, just today, a few weeks ago, where the position of the Democratic Party of Serbia's resolution was heard that their position was to return the health care law and the law on chambers. There was a big debate here. I also quoted the record and the sites on which it can be read, I can't remember the name of a colleague who appeared in front of the resistor, some of his colleagues were present here. And now, one interesting thing, suddenly all of this is acceptable, and nothing has changed in those laws; first the resistor returns, and now the resistor greets, even mentally defends. We don't mind, because it's the right of our colleagues, but it's better lighting up this whole situation. You know, when you say "represents and protects the professional interests of members of the chamber in performing a profession", what does that mean? It's a declaration, an empty word. How? In what way? That's what we're interested in. To whom, from whom? Where are our interests injured? Well, I'm sure they can be two-way injured by patients, complaining about us, is that it, that this, that. Do we have the right to refuse to treat patients and in what circumstances? Where does that say? That's where we need protection. Can we refuse to treat anyone under what conditions? So if that were to be prescribed, that would already be some kind of protection, concrete. Like this, an empty phrase that doesn't mean anything. And, please, it clearly says here that the courts honor professional duties and responsibilities and the pronunciation of measures for those certificates. So what we're saying, we're saying clearly, we think that these solutions are not good. Now I'm moving on to Article 9. Dear counterpart Krasic, who tried to explain both to the legislator and to us here the essence of the problems facing the health insurance law yesterday, gave the amendment and said Article 9 should be deleted. It's consistent with our present attitude. What does Article 9 say? "The chamber shall issue, renew or withdraw a licence to healthcare professionals, under the conditions prescribed by the law governing health care. "And then the next position, which for us is an additional bad solution: "The director of the chamber makes a solution to the issue, renewal or withdrawal of the license." Now, watch out: you have a incense, a incense judge (that is their judgment, honor, for instance) but then there is a director who makes a decision on the issue. What's the chamber director gonna do, first question. Come on, if we don't want the term "president," we're going to say a few words later, call it, then it should be some secretary, executive organ. There's a new incoherent organ being placed here, the director. What's the director doing with the chamber? That's our first question. Who's going to be that director? It's not clear. So, another instance that depends on someone's fate, another additional one can play, is that right, with the fate of a doctor. Someone will say, "Well, well, you're criticizing, you're contesting." We'd, you see... But we can't write you the law, we're just pointing to weaknesses and holes in that law. What would we put in that Article 9? We would say it brings criteria and regulations on continuous education, in a community with the Ministry of Health and with the Serbian Medical Society. Now, if we want to keep going, even if it's unnecessary, we're going to have to take that, even if it's not necessary, to control the fulfillment of these criteria and the prescribed conditions for continued education. We might as well accept that. Why do we think that's not necessary? It's easy to regulate orderly countries. Just tell me, if you've already given a monopoly position to one of the insurance institutions for mandatory health insurance, the clause is that they won't make deals with people who don't have any evidence of continued education. Get rid of those licenses of yours. That's all you bring in, and you've solved the problem. You just prescribe what the condition is, the credit time, and the problem is solved as well. But in a community with the Serbian Medical Society, in a community with you from the Ministry of Health, we don't mind if you are the first in that triumphate to bring the conditions that a doctor has to meet, so many congresses to visit, so many papers to do. You know what's already there. That would be acceptable to us, but let me tell you something, the best license is how many patients you have. You can do this in an artificial way, administratively, bureaucratically, centrally, bring this. Life and practice will be the best license for all of us. So that's the intensity, that's the essence, it's not the collapse, it's not the mockery with you, it's the solutions that exist in Europe, in Germany, in Switzerland, etc. If you've already taken that Anglo-Saxon license model that America knows, then it's located in their associations. The gynecologists' association licenses America. So the waist can speak. As I can see here, you've given the chamber a decision to call the primarius. No, it's a professional calling, the highest professional calling. What expert association? Serbian medical company, and so far it's done that job. Of course, you've been issuing a solution, and the Serbian Medical Society should be the one to worry about calling the primarius, because it's not an academic title, it's a professional title. That's the way things are for you, dear gentlemen. I really must tell you that Mr. Krasic has proposed this amendment for the best purposes. I know you won't adopt him. What can we do? I'm just surprised that some who claim to have returned the laws now give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23196	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. Replica. The People's MP... Excuse me, name only.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23197	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a brief replica. I have made it clear that several times there has been a mark of the start of the debate on this law – is this law further punishing doctors for something they do not do properly? Yeah, but not in the sense that the Criminal Law defines it. So that's how I understood this law, and that's how my MP group realized, these provisions of this law should make it impossible for the worst things in the health system to happen. I talked about it earlier, if there was a worsening of the health condition or even death of the patient due to unconscious treatment, non-infectious medical care, etc. So what this law provides, it's a withdrawal of licenses, it's a court of honor and determining professional duty, the responsibilities of members of the chamber, etc.; it's a regulation of the work of doctors, poor work of doctors, sanctioning. That is, not sanctioning, but punishment for the poor work of a doctor who has not yet received this situation to achieve criminal responsibility. So this should make it impossible for a criminal responsibility. I wanted to simply send a message to my colleagues not to be afraid that this law would be some set of dragon measures that would make it impossible for us to do our job properly, every day. And in that sense, I've been discussing it. As far as authority is concerned, I absolutely think the powers are limited. That's explained, because the law is just beginning its function in this health system and it's going to change. Licences – yes, in some countries, such as Germany and Switzerland, exist, but in most countries in the neighbourhood. Are they an ideal solution? We'll see. So, not expensive licenses, not bureaucratized, complicated way, alienated ways of publishing, but that way, which is what the chambers themselves organize, which are organisations that make up health workers. This medical chamber is made up of doctors, and it is not made up of some government officials who should now protect the interests of the state by, I don't know, punishing doctors or additionally burdening their everyday functioning. In doing so, of course, these additional jobs are to represent and protect the professional interest of members, to care for the reputation of members etc. We'll see if it's just a declaration. It is up to us to apply this properly in practice. I'm saying, it's understandable that these relatively narrow powers are necessary to begin with. I expect them to be wider. This chamber, for example, is medically made up of doctors; and its leadership is made up of doctors. Well, I guess we'll take care of ourselves in the best possible way. If that's not the case, then we have to change the law. It seems to me that it is a good basis to edit the system in one additional way, not to complicate it, but to simplify it, but to make the effects of this law more effective and quality; to better treat people and to protect the interests of the members of the chamber. Well, all the chambers are just forming to protect their members, because they're made by those people who do the job. I guess we'll say tomorrow, as a chamber – our salaries are low, public spending on health care is so separate, but it can be a little bit more, it won't further endanger the budget, but it will improve quality, for example. And some other things - we don't do in good conditions, we don't do in good conditions alike. I guess it's easier for the chamber, like a system, that has a lot of its organs, which make people who do that work, to take care of it the right way than someone who's, I don't know, set up by the state to do it. Of course, practice will show if the law is good. As for the dilemma of whether some parliamentary group, which seems to me not to be appointed here, supported or not by the laws, will be seen in the day of the vote. As far as my parliamentary group is concerned, we have criticism of the laws, we have talked about the fact that in some elements it has gone too carefully into reforms, for example that the powers of the chamber are quite narrow, but we have clearly said that this is the beginning of change and that it represents a good basis for change. It's up to us to make these changes run in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23198	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I begin to explain the amendment to the 10th Chamber Law, just to ask you one question, but I ask you a fair answer. The question is, have you even read these amendments submitted by the SRS parliamentary group? No matter what you say, I don't think you've read it, neither you nor the professional service, the lawyers from your ministry, and here I am going to tell you, Mr. Minister, why I asked you this. This can also be seen nicely on the basis of Article 36, that is, the amendment to Article 36. Of course, I will not comment on these amendments, it will be done by the doctor of veterinary medicine Mr Milkovic, but the amendment to Article 36, which says who the chambers will co-operate with, and among other things the Serbian Medical Society and other institutions are listed, and then Mr Milkovic said "as well as voluntary insurance organisations", you did not accept. Mr. Milkovic just wanted to help you sort this out one better way. Then, the amendment to Article 43 submitted by Professor Milet Poscurica, and Article 43 says what disciplinary measures can be imposed. The SRS parliamentary group remains in the position that public notice and fines of up to 20% may be imposed on those infringements of disciplinary or other liability provided for in the statutes or other acts adopted by the Chamber's assembly, but a temporary ban on independent work in the performance of certain tasks of health and temporary prohibitions of self-employed work in the performance of healthcare, something that certainly cannot regulate the assembly, or cannot be regulated by the chamber. Finally, Article 49, to which the amendment was submitted. Dr. Milivove Vukovic, also says these amendments have not been read, as surveillance of the legality of work and acts of the chamber is said to be carried out by the ministry responsible for health affairs. This is totally unacceptable to us, and this was also said by Mr Petar Jojic, that you had to consult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia a little bit before you moved on to the rejection of these amendments. But you did us one good favor, which left us with the possibility of the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, so the MPs of the most valuable parliamentary group in this high house, to further explain what this was about, because we amendments of course couldn't point to all the failures of this law and then, as Mr. Momchilov did, and the other doctors talked about it. It also saw the professional public of Serbia and the MPs in the republican parliament who wanted to follow it, which are very close to this area, which is what it is. One MP said he had no prejudice about who submitted the amendment, if it is a quality and good being adopted by his parliamentary group. It'll be a very quick day and a day to vote, and we'll see that honesty as well. I wanted to look at Article 10 from the point of view of a lawyer. Fellow MPs from the SRS Group of MPs spoke a lot of about this law and will speak more. I'm going to comment on my amendment to Article 10. My amendment to Article 10 foresees that in the position of the first member, the words "containment of the chamber" are deleted. Mr. Ilic was talking about avoiding an expensive administration. He said that we want doctors in health institutions, close to Serbia's citizens, to have a significant impact on improving the health condition, both primary and later. That's what MPs of the SRS want. Mr. Paja Momchilov pointed out all the faults and problems of this chamber law. I must be honest with you and admit that health workers from Radjevina, Azukovica, the Upper Adriatic, the Loznica expected this law to be something that will greatly change their working conditions and bring in a major improvement. They are now not satisfied with what is provided for in this law, because they mainly want to take certain sanctions, although you say so, and particularly by Mr Ilic, there is no intention of that kind. There is, Minister, because it stands in the provisions of this law, so it's simply said. Then we're against the license, and we've pointed it out for some of the earlier laws where the license was intended, especially here. Your schooling to make that call lasts six years. Then there are various specializations and subspecies that last four and more years and finally pass the expert exam. It's something that qualified each of the health care professionals enough to do if he approaches the job with love to do it in quality. It is as if in some other professions and professions we would now foresee some additional conditions. You know, to perform a judicial post it takes someone to be a graduate lawyer, to have a passed judicial exam and, of course, a certain number of years as a condition of a working internship, which doesn't mean that whoever meets all these formal conditions is eventually a good judge. Someone's going to be affirmative in practice or not. That's why we don't think this license should be accepted in any way. I get the impression and reading something between the lines here, because you're so insistent on that license, and a colleague who spoke before me says that there are all doctors sitting there and that they won't be against each other... It's possible it won't be, but there's going to be some groups that might be licensed to do private practice, so we'll give someone that license or we won't. It will certainly be like that, perhaps as individual cases, but we have to point out that and we have to count on that to happen. We have an extremely good and favourable opinion of the highest number of health workers. Mrs. Verica Radeta made one case. He's not unique in practice. There's more of them. I can also set a positive example from a small place, from Love, where members of the House of Health in Ljubljana, regardless of whether they are nurses, medical technicians or doctors, perform their function in an extremely correct and quality way, of course in accordance with the material conditions that this home of health provides and in accordance with the possibilities for them to be educated in doing the job. It's not a rare case that one or more doctors from that home of the patient's health call home to see how it is after a certain treatment. We count that the largest number of healthcare workers in Serbia are, but there are certainly other cases. Then, when you say what business chambers are, there are trusted other jobs. When a little trusted business is analyzed, it gets the impression that the ministry responsible for health affairs, as well as some other ministries, wants a certain part of the work and responsibility to transfer to these chambers and, somewhere in this law, the chamber can be read as agencies, what we had in other ministries instead of the chambers of the agency. It's kind of like a case around here. You've seen, Mr. Minister, that we haven't responded at all to a certain number of members, we haven't commented -- the organs of the chamber, that's something that's common, as well as a number of other things. We didn't have any particular objections, we didn't even carry them out. Therefore, this group of amendments submitted by the SRS Group seems to me without exception, and in order for this concept to pass, it should be accepted and then the law would be more acceptable and in practice it would certainly be better quality than it would be if the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party were not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23200	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23201	Thank you very much. I'll speak very briefly. You see, what my esteemed colleague Peric was saying, it can now be traced as a guideline and in the amendment of my colleague Milajić, we don't understand this term "limit", we don't know what it means. We don't see him in our system of territorial organization of socio-political organizations, a community, we don't see him exist and he's unclear to us. Why did we say regional? Not because some advocate that Europe should be a community of regions, we don't think, we think that it should be a community of states still, but you have a pandan of the Bar Association which clearly defines why it is necessary for lawyers to have a chamber. They're private entrepreneurs. The other lawyers don't have a chamber, judges and other lawyers, and you know it well. They're organized on that principle. We thought, if you mind giving us the amendments when we're against something, let's fix it if something can be fixed, and we know it won't. Once again, there must be a public awareness that someone has suggested something else, that a different solution has been offered. How you, if you have branches in all the cities, might be in the villages of the branches, is not clear to us from this bill of law. You can't see that. You say, "We'll regulate it with some kind of sign." It's okay. You can't see it here, so let's save at least a little bit and let it be on that regional principle how the Chamber of Commerce is arranged. The Serbian Chamber of Commerce, for example, has this organisation by regional principle. That would save us a lot of money in the administration, because you can see how you imagined there were registrations everywhere and some registers, publishings. According to us, it's a transitional solution that could still be good. It is said here, we are constantly returning to these powers – representing and protecting the professional interests of members of the chamber in performing the profession. What's the union gonna do? Shall we cut the union? What the union will do if it cares about working conditions, about this, about that. There's an extremely well-developed union movement everywhere in the world, including with us. We have several unions in health and health care. There would be a overlap between those powers. Let our good intentions are that these branches, we can't figure out how many they are and how many they're going to be, so let's kind of round up some way and at least reduce that administration. That's what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23202	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23203	Dear People's MPs, the law on health care workers' chambers is an extremely bad legal project, which is, above all, against constitutional provisions and certain provisions, in direct contrast to the Constitution. He is restrictive, and I would say that his primary goal is to punish a doctor and not only punish a doctor but also their discrimination, that is, to belittled, by the fact that proceedings can be conducted against them and sentences of punishment. That is why Serbian Radical Party MPs have submitted a large number of amendments. I have submitted an amendment to article 12 of this law, which I have suggested that Article 12 be deleted. Namely, the SRS opposes licences, and this particular Article 12 regulates the registration of licences, both renewed and withdrawn. A license, as you imagined, Mr. Minister, would mean the annulment of an appropriate degree, a doctorate, a magistrate, a state exam, which is unacceptable for the SRS. Also, Article 12, which I have proposed to delete, provides for registration of disciplinary measures. We're against punishing a doctor, so I think this amendment of mine is justified. I propose to the MPs that they adopt it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23204	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I suggested that in article 18 after the word "representation of all" I add the words "regional chambers" behind which the point is placed, and the rest of the text is deleted. In the Serbian Radical Party, we believe that the very definition of this member is inappropriate and that, above all, in accordance with other chambers, we should provide for the organisation and operation of the chamber proposed by this law, because the branch as a term is not clear to us, because the branch can be at the level of the local community, municipalities, districts, regions etc. We believe that for the sake of rationalization and economics, principles relating to other chambers in our country should be accepted. What this law lacks, if chambers are formed and aims to regulate the way the private practice and work of the doctor are organised, should be foreseen, as provided for by the Serbian Bar Association, to find a provision governing a particular fund (the Serbian Bar and Fund), and in particular what will be expenditure related to the payment of membership fees and registrations. This part of the money, at least one part of those funds that are collected on two basis, should go to one fund at the level of the Republic and provide for compensation for damages to healthcare users. This is not an accident that Serbia's Bar Association predicted, as in practice, whether out of neglect or out of negligence, damage to a particular citizen and person, but predicts a fund from which damage will be compensated due to poor or inadequate representation. I must say, I am glad that the Serbian Radical Party has a large number of doctors and doctors in its ranks. Here, in parliament you have Dr. Paju Momcilov, Dr. Branislav Blažić, Dr. Milet Poscuric, Dr. Goran Cvetanović, Dr. Milivoj Vukovic, Dr. Zoran Mašić, Dr. Milomir Dunjic, Dr. Dragoslav Milkovic, Dr. Miroslav Nedeljković, and not to mention. We have hundreds in Serbia. I'm sure they're, first of all, professional people. When we analyzed the bill's proposal in the parliamentary group, we found that there were certain shortcomings, indeterminateness, that in certain members there was insufficient and incorrect definition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23206	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Miljko Cevrovic has tabled an amendment to Article 19. A bill on the health care workers' chambers, requiring that certain provisions of this article be deleted or amended. The point is that we in the Serbian Radical Party believe that the chambers provided for by this bill should not be elected, nor should they have directors. It is necessary to bear in mind that SRS MPs, especially Dr Paja Momcilov and other doctors from our parliamentary group, have indicated to the public, both to the public and to the professional public, to the Minister and MPs present in the O.R. on this matter. In doing so, we have brought a lot to bear on the issue of licences and their renewal. Of course, we have stated that the chamber should not have the right, the authority to issue a licence and restore it. When it comes to a specific amendment to Article 19, we should bear in mind that Article 19 provides for the assembly to adopt the statutes of the chamber and other general acts. It is important to know that we are in the SRS, which we have also held in the debate, both in principle and in considering these amendments, against the limits of the chambers. For what? The branches of chambers, the number of branches, the seat, the organisation, the mode of work, and others, are said to be in Article 28, Article 3, the statute of the chamber. In Article 2. The bill said to establish Serbia's medical chamber, pharmaceutical chamber, Serbia's biochemistry chamber, nurses' chambers and Serbian health technicians; imagine a situation to sort out all these issues related to chamber branches in Serbia. Will it be at the level of municipalities, districts, regions? Mr. Minister, if all these chambers bring their statutes, what are the criteria when determining the limits of these chambers? What kind of synchronisation, by the Ministry and you as Minister, must be present in order to ensure that all the chambers that are taxed are listed in Article 2. The draft law in its statutes, and on the basis of Article 28(3) of this proposal, set their branches at the level of different territorial units in a valid, quality and identical manner? How will they know in advance, because they adopt statutes for the work of the chamber, means, for their work, whether all these issues are settled for a particular territory, by number, seat, organisation, mode of work, professional services, etc. In article 19, MP Miljko Cetrovic asked that the words "remuneration for the issue and renewal of the licence" be deleted, as well as in point 12) to delete the words "community branches" and replace them with the words "regional chambers". The territorial definition of the work and work of the chambers referred to in Article 2 shall again be defined more precisely. It's a bill of law. We believe that this amendment of the SRS also contributes to improving this bill, which is useful for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23208	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank the Minister of Health for being with us today, because besides the Minister of Justice, who sits in the hall all the time and articulates the amendments, the Minister of Health is one of the few. I object to a totally passive attitude towards the amendments, given that he was not on the Committee when we made arguments to accept the amendment to the SRS. I think he could use his presence to either comply with many amendments or point to their shortcomings. One of the amendments I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party is also to Article 23. Article 23 reads: "The members of the Management Board, as well as the chairman of the Management Board, elects and resolves the assembly from the ranks of its members". I have to go back to Article 22, where it is defined that the Management Board – I will not list everything, just some of the functions that the Management Board has – implements decisions of the Assembly; it proposes to national authorities measures to improve health care and health insurance; it is considering objections and proposals from chamber members, health departments, other state authorities and authorities of territorial autonomy, as well as local self-government, colleges, health profession schools, compulsory social security organisations, on which it reports to the Assembly. Among other things, it monitors and initiates an initiative to take the law of the prescribed measures in relation to violations of the rules prohibiting advertising in the field of health care and submits a report to the assembly. He listed only some, not all of the functions of the board of directors, in order to make it important who is a member of the medical chamber, i.e. since the SRS amendment was defined to replace the words "community of order", the words "their members" with the words "mandatory members of the chamber". For what? The amendment specifies the way in which the Management Board is elected in the order of mandatory chamber members. So, the precision of this amendment is much better, because the legal norm must be clear and concise, which is also the principle approach of the Serbian Radical Party. The government explained in its explanation that it does not accept the amendment because membership in the chamber is mandatory for all healthcare professionals performing a profession in health institutions, private practice, as well as other legal entities performing certain health activities. It's okay, but it's defined as a member of the 5th and voluntary membership for doctors of medicine, dentists, graduate pharmacists, medical biochemistry doctors, clinical biochemistry specialists, nurses and medical technicians, who don't perform as a profession in health care. So they can volunteer to join the chamber, it's not mandatory. Among other things, this amendment is for the members of the medical chamber to be just doctors who are necessarily members of the chamber. There's one more thing, and that's Article 5, second position, where it's defined that the chamber can also have honorary members, as well as the donor members, in accordance with the chamber statute. I don't want to say anything about honorary members. I guess it's gonna be a real person of the profession. But when it comes to donor members, just take what is being discussed these days, and that is to say that Mr. Bogoljub Karic is a donor. He keeps reporting to be a donor, to help various institutions. Does that mean we should put him in the doctor's chamber, too? Please, Mr. Dear colleague, he almost waved some certificate from Japan, a doctor of science, a professor of university, has his own university. Is he having a problem with being a doctor of medicine, but we're not talking about it, I'm talking about it here as a donor. You know, if in 1992 he could bring back a thousand marks to people who made money abroad, so they put 100,000 marks on the bank's booklet of Bogoljub Karic, in a year's time, because inflation made its own, so almost 100,000 marks were only positive from one person; if that money was thus acquired, and we all know that it was, why wouldn't it be a donor and depending on the members to accept it as a very serious and competent expert? Just for these reasons... And the minister laughs, I think he understood the message and I think he should accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party and I thank him in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23210	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment, with the correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Milomir Dunjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to turn around in the back a little bit, it looks like a bird virus has entered. We've been showering and we've started squawking, but it's your fault. Of course, a little joke. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 27(1) of point 3 of the Chamber Law and proposed that point 3 be changed and read – promotes the principles of professional ethics in order to establish the ethical behaviour of members of the chamber in the performance of the health care worker's work. Of course, a colleague of Paja Momchilov in his previous presentation, like many others, explained what the profession is and what the profession is. I don't want to talk about it, I don't want to repeat ourselves. Of course, you didn't accept this amendment, and I don't understand the explanation. You said that the Ethics Committee of the Chamber promotes the principles of professional ethics to establish the ethical behaviour of members of the chamber in the exercise of activity. I don't get it. I'm not happy with the explanation. Given that one of the reasons for the adoption of this law is the need to put aside the earlier existing solutions on the establishment and operation of chambers, which were represented in Articles 27a to 27a of the Health Protection Act, that is to say, the establishment and way of operation of chambers are established on the modern principles and principles of the association of health workers, namely: the principle of autonomy and independence in financing, the principle of decentralisation, the principle of responsibility... I'd stop here. When it comes to responsibility, Mr. Minister, we MPs of the SRS believe there should be a chamber, but a chamber of private practice. There, as you know, God is only a doctor in his office and he can do anything. I've had something out of my practice, and that's why I represent this thesis that there should be a chamber, and that someone should answer, especially our colleagues who work privately, I don't say everyone, but the race for money, you know... It happened to me in practice that I had a patient who was shown help in the private office, dental, of course, something was treated, a cure was put in, a vat with a pain medicine and an amalgamic filling. The patient came in with pain, I had to open that tooth, and when I looked at what was done, and he charged 300 euros, and I don't think he's already subject to any ethical morality, however you want, those colleagues. So I suggest that, it's just money, it's a private practice chamber. That's the attitude of my fellow MPs of the SRS. I wouldn't really do it anymore, we're tired, I guess my colleagues will be shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23212	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 32: "Article 32, paragraph 1 is deleted. "Article 32 speaks of how the chamber acquires the means to work. In fact, Article 32 reads: "The chamber receives funds to work from: 1) membership fees paid by members of the chamber; 2) compensation for enrolment in the register of members of the chamber; 3) compensation for the issue and renewal of the licence; 4) legatas; 5) gifts; 6) other sources, in accordance with the law. The members of the chamber are obliged to pay the membership fee neatly, to make up for the registration of the registers, as well as other fees for the operation of the chamber, in accordance with the law. "I think this point 3 is unnecessary and it is only an even greater imposition on healthcare professionals who have little personal income anyway. I don't understand why aside from the membership fee, then the fees for enrollment in the directory of the members of the chamber, there should be a part of the money set aside for other compensations. I wonder what other compensations? I would now ask Mr. Minister, but come out, is that part of the money that needs to be collected for new administrative workers who will certainly be employed for such a big job? So let's accept that too, but it is already known in advance that all new employees will surely be members of your party. G17 plus. I'm not saying that for no reason, I'm saying it for an argument. As all the directors of your health homes are your members, so will you new employees. A small number of directors from other parties are at the head of health homes, but you and those honest and honest people from the profession want to replace and replace party friends with less expertise and reputation among healthcare professionals. As an example, I will state to you the King and the Kruševac, and in other homes of health is known to the self-will of your directors, who knowingly violate the law. Many employees complain to the resolution ministry, i.e. Minister, but they get half-response or most of the negative answers, and it all ends up in that people's "cadium and suing cadia" suit. However, honest inspectors are found in some environments and there are large penalties for home health, which is an additional motive for directors to harass employees. And this article confirms a great proportion between what is required of healthcare professionals, on the one hand, and the socio-economic position of those same workers on the other. European standards, high moral principles, licences are being introduced, and unfortunately Balkan income for survival remains. For all I'm saying, I think it would be perfectly normal for Mr. Secretary to adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23214	The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23215	I'd like to replicate my colleague Vukovic. From this pay phone in defense of his amendment he mentioned G17 plus, he mentioned the Director of the Health Center in the King and Director of the Health Center in Kruševec, I do not know what else he intended to mention in terms of whether the quality of the work of these centres was. The Director of the Health Center in the Kingdom is not a member of the G17 Plus. It's a respected Dr. Arsic, a child surgeon. The King's Health Center is the best we can say. There's a pilot project that's been under way for three years. The king, unlike some earlier dark years, built an extraordinary health center, the hospital is extraordinary. You should go and see what it all looks like. I can speak responsibly about Kruševac Health Center, at the head of Kruševac Health Centre, there is Dr Vojkan Kulic, otherwise a highly respected surgeon. It is a member of the G17 plus, but it wasn't a membership that was too much in the choice of that man. The man is a respected surgeon, he published several publications, he even published manuals for family doctors on abdominal surgery. I also recommend that you go to Kruševac Health Center and make sure that he's in big construction, that he's got a series of modern appliances, that he's doing very well down there, that even laparoscopy on surgery, we have a scanner, we have a series of... There's Jovanovic up there, he can come out, I'm very responsible for saying all this and it's all on check. I would advise you not to give arbitrary information to the public. There's one more thing I want to say to this occasion. The poor salaries of health workers are mentioned. You heard, in the 2006 draft budget, you heard the finance minister, the health minister, it is planned that healthcare professionals, doctors, receive 30% increase next year, are planned to keep the health ministry's promise and to pay off the promised coefficients 1, 2, 4. In this difficult situation for the country, the transition, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health and how care is being taken of healthcare professionals and we want, at this moment, the possibilities for budgets to bring healthcare workers to decent incomes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23216	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23217	Maybe Article 104 can do 101, but it doesn't matter, it's the same thing. I understand that fellow MPs who will support this law and who support the government in a certain way defend the government's views, but it would be good to present them as the positions of their parliamentary group, because it is still inappropriate for the MP to act as a spokesman for the Government of Serbia or one of the government ministers. As for these two health homes that SRS counterpart Milivove Vukovic spoke of, you yourself said that the House of Health in the Kingdom had been a pilot project for three years, and it really did not need to be very smart, so to conclude that it was quite logical that the minister, who from the G17 Plus party, had entrusted a pilot project with a colleague from his party. So you yourself confirmed what Milivove Vukovic said. You don't have to defend, to say that the director of Krushevec and the King is not from G17 plus. If these people are members of G17 plus, if they do their job the way they should, of course we don't mind Serbian radicals. The problems are other species and you know it well, but you, a colleague, have told a lie here and deceived the public of Serbia. We just finished here the day before yesterday to discuss the draft bill on the budget of the Republic of Serbia and, I don't know if you were there, Mladjan Dinkic, also your party colleague, did not say when it comes to the salary increase that you have now said, but rather a nice man said that health workers, educators, administration workers and court administration workers will be paid to increase depending on how many in these areas they will fire already employed people. You know, that's not the same thing, you say 30%, and when we talked about the budget, I said, "If one home of health has 50 employees and the director can fire 49," then his salary will increase by as much as 50 employees would receive. So let's not deceive the public, let's not go back to the budget. The budget is very bad, it does not foresee better financial status or healthcare workers, nor educators, nor administration workers, nor court administration workers. It is not good and we Serbian radicals have talked about it for a few days, because we really think it is high time that the Government of the Republic of Serbia takes care of those people who are financed from the budget, because, as in every country, these are the pillars of the state. If we don't have a healthy state of justice, education, courts, state administration, then we can't expect a healthy state, we can't expect a fight against corruption, fight crime. So I'm asking that we don't return the discussion to the budget, because if you want us to, it's just right for us to repeat to another citizen everything we've talked about the budget these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23218	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 35. This article is quite problematic in this law. You have provisions that are proposed, among other things in point 1: "The Chamber is obliged to inform the public of all issues of the jurisdiction of the chamber. Item 2: "The Chamber shall notify the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the competent judicial authorities and the Ministry of Health of the disciplinary proceedings against the members of the chamber before the competent authorities of the chamber, as well as the procedures for issuing, renewing or withdrawing the licence, if those proceedings establish that a criminal offence has been committed. "Please, does the chamber need to be turned into an investigative center to haunt healthcare professionals? Please, provisions of Articles 226, 227 and 228. The Code of Criminal Procedure provided for certain powers of internal affairs authorities when it comes to the detection, lighting and reporting of criminal offences. This is how it turns out now that both in the disciplinary procedure and in the process of withdrawing the license, according to this bill, the internal affairs authorities, or police operatives to participate in the procedure, to review the files, to seek information and thus to violate the Constitution. The Constitution provides for the correct, and besides the Constitution system law, i.e. The Criminal Procedure Act regulated the jurisdiction of judicial authorities and internal affairs authorities, i.e. The police's organs. Please, it's inappropriate for the police to be conducting disciplinary proceedings against healthcare professionals, because they have no right, no authority. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, every citizen is required to report a criminal offence being prosecuted by duty. So, a criminal offence, if any, is then the health authorities, and they are obliged to report it to the competent public prosecutor. That's where the procedure ends and that's where it's headed. That's the definition that you're looking for notices, that everyone is obliged to give such information to the public... What are you going to do in a specific case if you determine that someone has received a bribe? The journalist comes and says – please, we ask for a notice, whether it is true, and someone finds and says – yes, he and he received a bribe; the journalist writes in the paper tomorrow, the article is published, and the investigation has not yet started. In the interest of the investigation, it cannot be notified in this way until there is a judicial decision in the public interest, in the interest of the protection of the rights of citizens, that some data which can violate fundamental human rights and violations of honor and the reputation of a citizen can not be handled. For this reason, I believe that the legislator had to rephrase this member, but in no way did he enter into the constitutional rights of our citizens. What's the police going to do now, and why are the police going to inform the person who's being taken away from the license, what does the police have to do with it? I understand that the health ministry is monitoring the work of the chamber and that in that case it receives feedback on the established factual condition if there has been a violation of the statutes of the chamber or violation of the law. When it comes to that provision of Articles 7 and 8, please, who's going to license teachers? For example, we have in the SRS a regular professor Dr. Poskuric who teaches others, and other doctors and specialists of these levels of expertise as experts educate others and give licenses, and who will now give these experts and academic titles of that level and approve or withdraw licences. So something that absolutely doesn't make sense. That is why we believe that this article is very problematic, the data cannot be provided, the data cannot be collected in this way by bodies that are not within the health authorities and therefore this amendment is the Serbian Radical Party. I told you, we have ten or twelve doctors here, we have many doctors in membership, but I have consulted with Professor Dr. Poscure, a regular professor of medical school, for a long time on all the provisions of this law. I can tell you that he's given me a number of interpretations and illogicalities, and that's why the proposal for this law is problematic. I think the minister sees that there are a large number of members of each other here. If the SRS experts had done so, believe me, it would have been much shorter, but the definitions would have been logical and legal, would not have interfered with the jurisdiction of other authorities, would not have foreseen norms that offend and violate the Constitution. Therefore, it is necessary to look at them, since even health workers are not as they should be observed through this law and taken some drastic, dragon measures, because this is illogical. You have been told, Mr. Minister, that there is a Criminal Code, that the previous criminal law has provided for corruption in ten bodies, in justice, in health, in education, and that I do not list. It was seen in practice that none of it had anything to do with it. It's not worth a thousand laws if they're not effective and applicable. We have practice, in the last few years, a large number of laws have been passed and these laws have not been passed for a month, two or three, the government is demanding changes and additions. That's why Dr Blažić showed you today that the Chamber Act, which was adopted in 1994, was only to be amended and amended, to improve this text, not to prescribe members and thus to say – we pass the law. It is not enough to pass the law, it is important to pass a good law, such as the Criminal Code, for which Serbian radicals voted. I can tell you, they voted because these are provisions written by Serbian radicals back in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23220	Anyone else by this amendment? I'm sorry, we're just comparing some data, if it's true. Nothing more. The 36th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Dragoslav Milkovic. The Health and Family Committee has accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with the correction, legally possible. The government accepts the amendment, with a correction, so I find that this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Health and Family Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes not to accept the amendment. Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 43rd Amendment was submitted by MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23221	Thank you. Of course I would participate in this obvious need to finish our work as quickly as possible, but of course we should go out and rest ourselves, but not make concessions to the IMF and Dinkic. At the expense of the people, they're willing to do anything, so that's how we sit here day and night, like it's a state of emergency. What we wanted by amendment to Article 43 – to limit the jurisdiction of the courts of the first and second, as you call it, the first and second degree, and to make sure that those who are found guilty before that court of the chamber, for which we do not know what they will be, are likely to bring the act of the chamber, how many lawyers there will be, whether there will be only doctors, whether there will be dominant private doctors, whether there will be an interesting lobby, whether there will be these, whether there will be pharmaceutical houses, whether there will be pharmacologists, in the chamber of pharmacology, etc. Well, there's a lot of misunderstanding. This is all declarative, general, but good. What are we saying? We don't want the third and fourth points in which the defendant is punished before this court, so the doctor, in this particular case, we're talking about them, and it's applicable to all of us, not to do certain jobs or all of the health care jobs. Why do we think that? There's a lot of reasons why it's like that. First, it is enough to be punished, because so far there has been no, and the real, real effective punishment is pronounced by courts in criminal proceedings, if he has committed a crime. And of course we've elaborated that, legal experts, I wouldn't talk about it. Secondly, when we take a closer look at the previous member, who's applying to the chamber to review someone's work, except for unfortunate citizens who probably can't even go to the police anymore, because doctors who deal with bribery and crime have everything to do with police, inspectors, judges. It's all covered. It wouldn't be so easy to take, no matter how percentage and numerical. There's a lot and it's well covered. And it's probably one of the citizens' hopes of being able to look there. Now, the other instance that's doing it, you can't see it, of course you can't see it from the law, or maybe I haven't done it all underhand, see, I've been reading it very carefully. This is when, when someone is identified in this settlement procedure, but probably with the citizens' initiative, responsibility is initiated, so in the reconciliation process or whatever you call intermediation, mediation is likely, in the mediation process, determined or agreed, agreed, or determined in the course of that agreement and the settlement is not sufficient, but must also go to court. Now, who's running the third one? Is it someone who's in charge? Do they have a supervisor? Look, in some other solutions, maybe tomorrow we'll talk about health care, the very chamber suggests a list of supervisors and the adoption minister, only some can take off. He's not getting involved with the minister. We'll see how he proposes tomorrow, I don't remember exactly. When you give licenses the right to obtain licences, that's how much I remember by sublegal act 196, 94, which are members who handle it tomorrow... We'll see how that works out and who makes the criteria, what's it gonna be enough for a license. So there are many vague things, and it is very clear that someone can be entitled to perform a work of action. It's very disputable. What are you going to do, say, people have two specializations, subspecies? What about the doctors who work at the university, whose motherhood is in the department to work a clinical course? And, now you take, say, a nephrologist, a pardon, take the menu, impossible for reasons that you state when you take the license, but theoretically take it now for me to take. Like I'm not doing cardiology, I'm not doing nephrology, I'm not working with students. If he's an assistant, how will he be an assistant, if you take his professional activity, he can't be an assistant, because he's a clinical subject. There's no reason at the university to punish him, even in college, under this Vuksanovic law, ethically, because you have ethical committees everywhere. You've come up with it everywhere. The more ethical committees, the bigger the robbery. That's the obvious thing. And less efficiency, of course. So there's less ethics, and then we see that it's going to be a problem with these people. Now he has to go, so if he has it once a year, he sends a college opinion on the work of the chamber, is that understood? As the supervisor determines the expert, external, external control, and then sends it to the director, sends it to the chamber, sends it to the minister, sends it to everyone. It'll be sued by some, it'll be a miracle. What is being made of an elegant attempt to really protect the chamber, but that the chamber, if it wants to have jurisdiction, then that it has how you have the law, the solution. Here, look at Croatia. When he's really got it in his hand, he's got a knife and a cake. Then it works. But you can't have a little ministry, a little chamber, on all sides, waiting for you, lurking from every corner. There's a minister in charge, somewhere in the courts, somewhere else the chamber will hook you up. Somehow, one unfortunate galaxy of solutions you've offered here, and one of those is that you're going to take, of course, the right to this labour ban. I know that even a life-long labour ban stands in that Croatian language. They went further, but they really handed over all the jurisdiction to the chamber from the ministry. Then we know, we are no longer afraid of the minister or his appointments in the image and the name of the director, but we know that it is the chamber that judges us all. We know that we think of the chamber differently, the chamber protects us there, so it pays us to our families, so it brings us to the courts, so it brings the price code, so the pay code, so the specialization code, the subspecialization. Well, a thousand things the chamber does there. Then you say, so such a chamber is worth it, to stand up for it. This is something in between, half wine, half water, that's what you did. This isn't very special to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23222	Thank you. Don't throw it away. I'm sorry. Support, actually. Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23223	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it's 19 hours and five minutes on the clock. We sat in these benches at 10.00. It's a small number of us who stayed and held on to this. What I said at the very beginning, this session and this whole package, as well as us packed with that package, we look like what we see in the "Marathons running the honorable circle" of Mihic. Now I'm changing my mind, and this all looks like what can be seen in the cult film "The Horses Kill, Right." You saw the movie, you know. These elders know, the younger ones don't know. For the younger I say, a marathon is a dance, is it so, and who endures longer. Now, unfortunately, it's not possible to make a 100% comparison with this movie. He doesn't have a partner. Serbian radicals are talking. There's no echo on the other side, to be heard, to hear opinions. We wanted to exchange opinions. The essence of the congregation debate is that through the debate... The congregation can't work with three, four members sitting in the O.R. and having a discussion. The Assembly is a collective body, not experts, but representatives of the people, who, therefore, make up for their apparent handicap by mass that they may not be the best version of all problems. The goal is to reach a balanced, best solution, to cut the extremities and, is that, to the benefit of the people, to the benefit of the people, to the best of things. Why am I saying all this? I am talking about why we will give up further amendments, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, in the interest of people who serve all of us, who have souls, who have no reason to sit here, to be harassed by us MPs and this high house. We don't need to turn ourselves based on campaigns like this into martyrs, it's not just right. It's not a war situation, it's not an elemental accident, it doesn't have to be done like this. Whoever packed this is serving him honor, and I think the citizens of Serbia have figured out what this is all about. In the end, just a few words to say why we resent all the things we resent. When it comes to penalties and restrictions, you have 10 members here, and chapter eight is so beautifully worked that it will reach into your pocket, that it will take 20% of your salary. We mean, why do you need people to punish you? We're also extremely opposed to you being a doctor right now... Be careful what refinen is used here, we'll get a license for certain jobs and I can take a history as a doctor, but I can't examine it. There are worse things in our practice. You have in our institutions, where specialists do the work of administrative officials for three months and that it doesn't bother anyone; people who have long been trained are from the directors, who have been raped and who are kabadishly acting, put on commissions, because inspections from the ministry keep coming, and then a three of the specialists' doctors descend to dig in the history of the disease. Severe degradation. People are quiet because they're afraid of losing their place and position. It's a reality. There's such a refiner, so there goes the next sentence. It is said, "No, we won't give you certain jobs, but now we will give you along with the old man to work, so that we can forbid you from being independent." We can never agree to this, we don't think that's right. In one magazine, a doctor says - I have 30,000 salaries in the home of health; now take 20% of her personal income and give it to her for six months or how much do you think that doctor's going to live on? How do you think she heals quality? You know what the prices are, Mr. Minister? Why this? Write a note, go publish it in the paper, put it on the ad board, make a pillar of shame. Let's get back to Hamurabi's code. Doctors have long been sanctioned in history and paid with the head of treatment failures. Is that what we need today? Is this the civilized Europe where you're taking us? I'm not quite sure. What bothers us further is surveillance of the work of the chamber. You say it's an independent body. Then you're saying that the supervision of the legality of the work and the act of the chamber is conducted by the Ministry of Health. It's just a matter of work. Why didn't you listen to these lawyers? If the chamber is independent, then the supervision of labour law is carried out by the Ministry of Finance, the authorities of the Justice Ministry and the Ministry of State Administration. What are you doing here? You say - the chamber is obliged to submit an annual report on work and financial operations by the end of February of the current year. How independent is she when she's in debt? So you're giving approval to the statutes. How independent is she, Mr. Minister? I also know about the new word, that the words you use use with opposite meaning, but that new speech, it's an Ordelianism. We Serbian radicals do not want to accept it. We want words to have their meaning right, full and understandable. What's the casual remark is that in these transitional and final provisions, a way to build a chamber is given. We think the chamber had the right to establish a medical school, or medical schools, and a Serbian medical society. The Serbian medical society has both authority and legitimacy, the largest. We can challenge him. Many say that the Serbian Medical Society did not work well and that it does not work well, but that is not true. This can easily be proved to be the opposite of the truth; but it is true that after 2000 it is further demoted, it can also be easily proved. Such a Serbian medical society, this antique, the best we have and that has represented us so far, has earned to be the driver of something, and the founder, which should protect the interests of doctors. So again, the mother of all medical schools in Serbia and the former Yugoslavia, the Medical Faculty in Belgrade, so I say in a community with other medical schools in Serbia, was supposed to be co-founder of this, because knowledge is power. The port was carried by these two institutions, and the Ministry of Health did not necessarily appear in this role. But that's one opinion and one attitude. I agree that I can also contradict the opinion that they exist. Since I have 15 minutes, let's just sum things up. The SRS won't vote for a bill like this. The SRS considers that an additional attack was made on the private practice of these solutions, putting in an unequal position of private doctors, by placing them under obligation in one such chamber. We think the Slovak example is appropriate and fine. We certainly couldn't agree on all the things we talked about, but we believe that the repressive role of this chamber and the attitude that it will be the regulator of some good work and dam by professional and ethical mistakes is not good. The profession will only progress if we have good reform laws and we have continued education that will be enabled in the right way. No bans, no licenses, no reach for the small personal incomes of a doctor will lead to that. Therefore, this is not a good law. If you adopt him, we'll see how it all works. I'm afraid you'll adopt it, but that law is not in the interest of a medical profession. He doesn't protect the medical profession, he doesn't even protect the citizens. He will generate dissatisfaction further, the frustration of the medical profession, because you must make sure that we do not live in prosperity. This is a society where it is very difficult to live, and for God's sakes, doctors and other health workers are bloody well earning their bread day and day and paying for their health and lives this condition as it is in the country and their efforts to provide our people with survival. Be aware of that, and if you won't, there's really nothing we can do about it. Serbian radicals are leaving the assembly debate, it's pointless, it's groundless, we're all tired, and we're mostly sorry for the technical services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23224	Mr. Momchilov, since it is very important that we establish not what you said, do not withdraw you on behalf of the SRS other amendments, it is important because of the service, but Mr. Momchilov, because of the minutes, informs that the parliamentary group on amendments submitted by the MPs of that group will not discuss this law, we are only talking about this law, until today's debate on details. So, you can say a lot of things from a pay phone, you don't have to be exact. From this place I can't, because then it affects, you know, the consequences, Mrs. Radeta will say... At the same time, in order to avoid confusion, as I warned the minister yesterday, and today I did not interrupt you, as he did yesterday, please, we must defend the dignity of the assembly. So you wouldn't think of someone by chance, not all of our age, the movie "The Horses Kill, Don't You" isn't talking about horses. That's the first thing, just to be clear. Secondly, it is not true that MPs here are harassing someone, but they are using their right to defend the dignity of all MPs who participated in today's debate. They defend their rights, and I hope there's not so many of you left, but there's more of you, so be kind, we're talking about something important. All MPs, in order not to be misunderstood in public, have the right to speak in the Rules of Procedure about amendments, to once again from their concept or from their belief or from their own party interest, which is entirely their right, try to explain one amendment to the public once again, so that people know. Of course, they represented their concept in different ways through these amendments on boards, in a public debate, these are all people who are prominent and in public life, in different ways, but now they want to represent the public again, because the public chose them. Of course, it is also the right of those who disagree to answer those arguments for the first or for the tenth time or not to respond, therefore, from their concept. Each one chooses his own, and on that basis is the National Assembly. The professional service is not being harassed, but is working to enable this right of MPs. The fact is that because this assembly has passed so many laws, as Mr Jojic said, there are very few of those who have been amended and amended, and most of the last 20 years of the system laws on a percentage basis, which do not immediately live, so this assembly will control, hopefully not this one, the sum, however, that these laws will be implemented. The professional service has increased 800 percent of its work and we thank them for that. They didn't, of course, have as much salary increases as the MPs didn't have, as doctors don't have, and you've said that many times. It's because we live in such times. No one's harassing anyone. The professional service knows and is pleased that, together with the MPs, it participates in the attempt to search the laws multiple times, explain to the citizens, and eventually adopt the way the majority decides. Based on that, the laws start to work. I'd like to thank the professional service. We're all taking care of them, and it's possible, too, that instead of the closing statement, when we finish discussing the other amendments, it's possible that the minister will give the final word tomorrow morning when the service is rested or otherwise used, we'll see. In any case, we all respect professional service and MPs. We continue to discuss details. I also have to read this where the MPs said they wouldn't discuss it and make it clear. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Nestorovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivova Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The assembly of the AP Vojvodina submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 58 be added after article 57. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, I ask if the representative of Professor Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, wants to give the final word now? Here you go. Please, because of the MPs who may not be able to hear from their rooms, just one more clarification, when it is concluded after the search, what we have announced today, and counting the MPs – because of the importance of the law, on the basis of Article 85(4). Rules of Procedure, I'm setting up a follow-up to discuss the details of the 9th item of the agenda tomorrow, Sunday, at 10.00 p.m. Thank you all for your responsibility. Now, the closing word of Minister Milosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23225	Ladies and gentlemen, we've been reviewing two important laws all day, but I really want to tell you that early this morning, a young patient who was treated at the Clinical Center of Serbia due to severe liver disease has been transplanted into VMA. It's the second liver transplant in two days. The donor was a patient who was brain-dead in Novi Sad. The team performed a liver transplant and transferred it to VMA and a transplant was made at the third high-level facility. It is another good example of the real way of organising top-level work in Serbia's health. I think we can all be pleased that the serious and enormous activity that the Ministry of Health has led to in the beginning of this year, thanks primarily to the national organ transplant coordinator Prof. Dr. Bozina Radevic and the team in VMA, but also to all colleagues in top institutions, the organ transplant program begins to resuscitate in Serbia. Now I'm going to ask the president to tell me if it's possible to give the final word on these two laws tomorrow, at the beginning of the session, since I thought MPs had more power and energy. I'm not tired, but it's not bad to hear a lot of answers to the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23226	Mr Milosavljevic, in order not to sound wrong, MPs, as you can see, and the debate is not necessarily attended by a number of MPs, but only by those who want to participate at that point, and when voted, it is decided by an absolute majority, and compared to that, as you heard earlier, they are very willing to participate in the work. On the other hand, I figured out what you were asking me. You say, since you want to contribute to the effective work of the Assembly, so you have carefully and patiently listened to a whole series of questions that have been asked today and recorded them, you do not want to be in a position to now, when you want to answer it briefly and efficiently, that there are currently no MPs who have asked questions here. It is precisely because of the respect of these MPs that I can advise you on something that is businessly possible. You can't give the final word in the morning, but you can, because whenever a proposaler's representative calls, he can speak, so it's very correct for you to, whenever you want, report to the MPs who've taken a breather, orna for work on, in their presence to answer questions. That would be really correct, and I respect that correctness of yours. Namely, since the decision under the Rules of Procedure is to be done today by the end of the debate, and the final word is to that end, in that case, if you define yourself, I would ask you to use your business law at the beginning of the morning and answer the MPs who were asking questions today, because they are very interested in hearing the answer so that you would give them a correct answer. Now, instead of the closing statement, eventually just thank you for the importance of these laws, and then we move on in the morning at 10.00 hours. That's my advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23227	Thank you very much for explaining. In any case, there were many contradictions in the definition of the law on the Red Cross of Serbia, from the fact that it was not an important law, to the fact that the law is very important. Since a whole series of questions have been asked which I intend to answer directly, then I would retain that right to repeat some things tomorrow. The point is basic school and intentional inaccuracies in the law, as well as a number of other things. I think it's best if I explain it through the answers to the questions tomorrow. As far as the health care workers' chamber law is concerned, I am convinced that after this debate, there is reason to even consider that a much greater number of MPs will vote for this law, than this seems to be in relation to the coalition that is in power and opposition, because it could still be understood and heard that there is one thread connecting the medical profession in this room. I am convinced that after answering questions, which I will also refer to most tomorrow, and the atmosphere in the hall will be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-26-0.u23228	Thank you for your willingness to honor both the presence and the absence of MPs, who have shown great responsibility today, by participating further in the debate on details. Thank you all for your responsibility. I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I repeat once again, under Article 85(4), because of the exceptional importance of the laws that are on the agenda, for our country and its obligations, the MPs will continue the debate tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. in detail by searching the 9th item of the agenda. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the start of the working day. I'd like to inform you that no one has been prevented from attending today's session. I understand that Nadica Momirov was present yesterday and today, and Mrs Grubjesic is present. We continue to work on the established agenda. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a SUBSIDENT LAW (specificities) I would like to thank everyone once again for the responsibility towards the voters and the state, representatives of all parties, who are ready to work on Sunday, to help pass this package of laws. Thank you. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs Milet Poscurica, Paja Momcilov and Ivan Zivadinovic. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Health and Family Amendments, the MPs of the People's Republic of Pai Momchilov were withdrawn to the members of the 2nd and Milet Poscurica, respectively. Two and six. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Ivan Zivadinovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović. Here you go, Mr. Zivadinović.
