ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16197	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in the principle debate on the proposed amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will focus on the contribution to my debate in two parts. The first is what we see as reasons for adopting, voting for or against such amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, and the second is an application and a request for support for the amendment that I submitted on behalf of the DS parliamentary group. Such a proposal for a Rules of Procedure has been tabled on the wrong assessment that you can replace the lack of essential arrangements, and then, if you will, national agreements on various topics, including, at least as far as we are concerned, the work of the National Assembly, of course, is a priority. It is always a delusion in which it is easy to jump, and it is likely that the future assembly will have, hopefully with much less bad judgment, the intention to replace the debate on essential issues with procedural issues. The essence of the argument, which we share during the debate on the amendments and additions of this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is whether it intends to abolish, reduce, react restrictively, act on opposition rights in the Assembly. So, when you hear that question in the debate, it should be a signal to you that you can't, by procedural question, replace the debate about what the opposition's demands are. It is even more misleading that any restrictive, technical, whatever provisions, you can stop, prevent, or, God forbid, order the opposition to follow these rules voluntarily. The Messengers of the people earn; that is what you used to do. That's exactly what I'm saying. One day in Serbia, we must have a moment to learn lessons and not to be eternal repeaters. So if we have some lessons from the past, we can prove that the basics of those lessons have been taught and that we move on. That's what modern and successful peoples do. So whatever provision you put into the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, there is no way to prevent the creativity of the opposition. If you want to limit the time in which the opposition will discuss an amendment or indemnity, if you want to limit the frequency of the opposition MPs to appear, there will be a way for the right to be satisfied. It's a lesson that should be learned. To say that it is a matter of equal treatment and MPs of the ruling majority or opposition – it does not stand, because in the current Rules of Procedure no one has prevented the ruling majority MPs from being present in the National Assembly Hall every day, each working day, in the number of 84. Why? Because discussions on essential issues have not been conducted and this is a problem which is not yet essentially open in this assembly, and, of course, in society, what are the essential topics of which we, as representatives of political parties, can have agreement in society, which are topics that we can agree on, which can be agreed on. Such a principle, in essence, is seen, should ensure that MPs of any ruling majority, and I'm not talking about this presence, don't have to be in the session room. It's a message that goes. Even though I am absolutely certain that this is not the proposal – the intention is to strengthen the work of the board, that MPs are indeed dealing with legal acts and agree on the provisions of this Rules of Procedure – the Rules of Procedure which are in use in the European Union's parliaments. It doesn't look like it in this room or at the board meetings, and it doesn't look public in particular. As much as it takes to change the rules of your work for the Assembly to really function properly, it is so much more necessary to understand, if in any debate you have the fear of the opposition, it is numerically strong or numerically weak – something with the rights of the opposition is wrong. We have a common problem and we need to talk about this problem. It's a lesson that should be learned, but obviously not. In addition, the amendments and additions to this Rules of Procedure do not show for now, obviously, whether the pace of the debate that the Proposer has here in the Assembly or at committee meetings has made you essentially worse. So, one good intention, because the desire to have a procedural debate is essentially a very quick one to see that the previous Rules of Procedure was better. Anyone who carefully reads the provisions and knows how the work of the congregation is done can safely argue that. A couple of fellow MPs like me already know that. What we need to share as a fact is that if the opposition, at the level of impressions and perceptions, deny the right to address, the right to explain, the right to do something in its own right, they will either use creatively all kinds of mechanisms that exist in the Rules of Procedure or make existing provisions in the Rules of Procedure a situation where only the opposition is visible in parliament. So, according to your proposal, you essentially have to turn into reality one undeniable political fact in this room, which is that representatives of opposition political parties are essentially leading the debate. So what citizens and citizens of Serbia see -- they see representatives of two opposition parties who have opposing opinions. Very little or not at all see representatives of the ruling majority defending a position. The fact that you "relieve" them of their presence in the session room will be even more pronounced. It's a fact I don't dispute, I don't praise, I don't approve. It's simply something that stems from the application of the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Digression. Very much choose at least another vice president of the Assembly. Given the current schedule of presidents and vice-presidents of the Assembly, you will have session cancellations due to the absence of the chairman, because formally, as things are now standing, the work of the Assembly will be brought down to the work of the president and one vice president, which is very difficult for all of us from the opposition that we intend to very seriously criticise every proposal of the government and to do seriously, as we have done so far. What is an additional problem for the amendments to the Rules of Procedure is that we do not achieve a goal, which I have no doubt that the Proposer has, and that is awareness of how important the work on committees is. What should be said clearly and openly – that all verbalism and all demagogy about this being our joint house and shared responsibility, when you see that you have a good amendment as a representative of the opposition, a good proposal. But from the political immatureness of the ruling majority, you have an emotional response, not a rational response from parliamentarians. It's a theme for the assembly, not procedure, but why won't you accept the amendment? ", "why won't you put on the agenda the draft law tabled by the opposition, when it's obviously good? ". That's because he's from the opposition. It's not the subject of rules and rules, it's the subject. As long as we don't agree on it, we'll be in danger of the opposition applying the ultimate measure. So, always the opposition can leave parliament, thereby automatically removing the credibility of the ruling majority. Apparently, it contributes to the political crisis and destabilisation in the country and it does so for a justifiable reason of perception that some rights, which are considered natural that the opposition has – and there are only when someone in the opposition says, "Yes, I do, these rights are not satisfied." So, in no way slows down the need for progress and change, I stress that the desire of the DS to have a debate in this assembly on the essential problem, on the essential reasons for the lack of real communication between the opposition and the ruling majority, as well as to work on removing the way of communication, that it is important who is speaking, and never what is said, and that our communication comes down to disqualification or qualification of those who speak, and very rarely, unfortunately, what they say. In the minute that I have left, in the time of the DS parliamentary group, I will ask the National Assembly to give a positive statement in the voting day on the amendment that we have tabled on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: "The rules of conduct of the Members of the People". The Management Board has just refused to adopt 16 views in a member relating to the rules of conduct, based on the first member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, who does not suffer the changes. There is no argument that you could refuse an amendment that requires, practically, a voluntary change in what we want to be, what we want others to see us and what we want to be people who do any public work, including politics. Refusal of such an amendment is only evidence in favor of the fact that, essentially, with the story of the procedure, we want to cover up a lack of courage, ability, or will to really talk about the fundamental foundation of an institution like the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16198	On what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16199	As an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16200	There's a list that's been established and we can't get past the sequence. The People's MP Vladimir Homan has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16201	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say something about the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. First and foremost, the proposer's intention is to speed up the work of the Assembly. We have already heard that many laws and other acts need to be passed after obtaining a positive assessment of the Performance Study, at the beginning and after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which we expect to begin in October of this year. What's good is that there won't be any more endless debates about the amendments that say, "it's gone," and it won't be spent on that unnecessary time here in the O.R. It'll be on the boards, and it'll be like that. These changes, in fact, strengthen the role of all the Assembly committees, and that is also the tradition of European parliaments. As for abolishing the working quorum, MPs who do not want to participate in the debate will be allowed to do other work in the Assembly: they are preparing for discussion, they are writing amendments, they are reviewing the bill's proposals. Besides, we heard yesterday that the OSCE also supported these changes to the Rules of Procedure. I would also like to point out and commend that there will be questions to be asked in the day for parliamentary matters and that the representatives of the government here will answer these questions. As for the very obstruction of work, of course it wasn't the intensity of these changes to disable obstruction. It has always been possible and it has been and it is a being, so those who consider it to be the goal of the opposition, not to be a correction of the government, but to obstruct the government, trip, and seek any way to bring down power, will still be able to do so and should not worry. Much greater changes will include this Rules of Procedure in the work of professional services and in the organisation of work itself. That will take, I agree, some time to spy on each other. As for that, we heard yesterday that we cannot compare our parliament with the parliaments of other countries where such solutions are long known, because our Parliament has no reputation for what English, German or European is like. Of course, he has no reputation, nor can he have it when such qualifications as they've heard before are heard behind this speaker, and I hope they won't hear it in the future. I don't want to repeat them, you know what kind of things they're about. There's always time and place to argue. Why would it always be in this room, why would this congregation serve to entertain the people? The biggest remarks we've heard are that the working quorum is lifted. Anyone who doesn't want to give a quorum to start work, they won't be able to take the journals for it in the future. Why would the citizens pay for someone's trouble, especially when they don't like to make it impossible for those who want to work. It will no longer be possible for certain MPs to arrive at half past six in the afternoon, drink coffee for 10 dinars and take a daily of 1,000 dinars. Imagine, that's possible now. It won't be possible in the future. It's one of my favorite changes to this Rules of Procedure. Coffee doesn't have to collect, but MPs won't be able to get 1,000 dinars here in half an hour. There have been examples of them, there may be no more and it will not be possible for some opposition MPs to be the most paid people in Serbia in the unit of time here in the Assembly. Because, imagine, there are also those who never come here in the O.R., never come to work and get a full salary. It will be no more, and these will provide the most resistance to the amendments made to this Rules of Procedure. They are the most fierce opponents of these changes, pretending to be concerned about the work of the Assembly after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, wondering what will happen after this amendment of the Rules of Procedure has been adopted and after it is not necessary for MPs of the ruling majority here to provide a working quorum. They wonder where the MPs will be when they don't have to sit in the O.R. I would remind myself that the MPs of the opposition, (when we have to split up like that), did not have to give a working quorum for a year and a half, so no one wondered where those MPs were this year and a half when they weren't here in the O.R. I'd like to mention the most extreme examples. Where are Mr. Korac, Mrs. Micic, Mr. Svilanovic? Nobody wonders what they're doing or where they are. I'm not going to say that the other MPs, because they don't have to sit here in the O.R. for a year and a half, and they don't have to give a quorum like they heard yesterday -- they're sitting in a restaurant. I want to believe, and I believe that they are working to consider the bill, to consider amendments, to question their amendments, to prepare discussions. It will also be possible for MPs to do so by the ruling majority and therefore the G17 plus will support the changes to the rules of procedure, and therefore there will be no more inequality in the work of MPs in parliament. All 250 will be able to prepare equally for discussion and discussion. Let's not always look down on it. Now, if we don't have to sit in the O.R., we're all in the restaurant. I don't want to believe that's how it's been with those who didn't have to sit in the O.R. until now. That way, they won't be with those who have had to, and they won't have to, but they'll be doing other jobs here in the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16202	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot has been said in the previous debate. I'm really sorry that the promoter isn't here, because I'd have a lot to tell him myself. I think that he, both as president of the National Assembly and as a proponent of this shameful act, is the most responsible for what he wants to do with the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. Mr Markovic himself said that the National Assembly is currently the last institution to represent all citizens of Serbia, and I think it is exactly the last institution the DOS regime wants to destroy. You yourself said that the current citizens' trust in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is about 4%, and it is certain that the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly will bring an end to this institution, which you claim to be the last to represent all citizens in Serbia. First, if these few members are neglected who are regulated by the work of congregation committees and to whom the SRS does not have any particular objections, what is the essence of this Rules of Procedure, is the introduction of new restrictions and practical destruction of congregation work. It has been done in the same way by devising the work of the Parliament itself, the abolition, as you say, of the working quorum. But before that – by destroying and devising and working on congregation committees. How else do you understand the proposal, which says that Article 73 changes position 3 so that it reads: "The debate at the committee session is conducted regardless of the number of board members present". How will this, ladies and gentlemen of the DOS, be possible to conduct a debate unless the board meetings are practically attended by any of the board members? Is it possible to conduct a discussion between one man? Is it possible for the chairman of the board (it is enough to be the chairman of the board) to open the debate and take it with him and later say: here, we have completed the debate on the amendments. I think this is really embarrassing. On the one hand, you have declared it an intensification that the work from the assembly benches is being moved to committees; Mr Markovic said that it would be possible to plan for some time, so MPs will be able to inform their constituents precisely and say – here, then and then, at the sitting in direct transmission, they will be able to see what they were most interested in at that time, and for which there was no opportunity to report through the media. The question arises, how will MPs, if they are already denied the right to turn to citizens directly and tell them more about the amendment, be able to inform citizens when the topic they are interested in will be on the agenda. Article 75 says "the board decides most of the votes of the members present at a session attended by most board members". It is further said that members of the Committee, the legislator or his representative, the representative of the Government, may participate in the search, if it is not the promoter and the applicant of the amendment or representative of the applicants, for up to 5 minutes after each amendment. The previous DOS regime and these DS gentlemen, when they brought the Rules of Procedure for which ash is now being sprayed on their heads, provided, among other things, for a restriction under which only the representative of the parliamentary group and the MP who submitted the amendment could be declared. The Constitutional Court, unfortunately in Serbia, was forced to decide after a long time that such provisions of the Rules of Procedure were unconstitutional. Then I ask you, if you already have experience and if you have already been told by the Constitutional Court, that every MP, as an autonomous original representative of the citizens, has the right to plead on every amendment and in a parliamentary debate, how do you think that right to abolish an MP at a committee meeting? Another thing, how do you think MPs decide and vote on amendments, and basically it would be to allow each MP not only to talk about each amendment, but also to attend a debate on each committee, when deciding on its or any other amendment submitted. This would mean that you had to predict that at the same time you could never hold meetings of the two Assembly committees, because it was the only way to allow each MP to get acquainted with each amendment and have any opinion on it, and that based on his conscience in the voting day for or against a certain amendment. In this way, you are turning MPs into voting machines, and it will not be possible for any MP to rise above the opinion of his parliamentary group, that in any way, in a serious way, he will consider any amendment and see whether it would bring certain benefits to the citizens of Serbia or not. In Article 81, paragraph 4, you say, "The President of the National Assembly may decide that a session of the National Assembly is held for other days", which has been the case until today, "or the National Assembly should extend the work after 18 hours, if there are legitimate reasons for this, which the president declares to the MPs". Giving this kind of authority to the president of the National Assembly certainly isn't good. Until now, we have faced, on various issues, with the will of Mr Markovic and given him authority to decide whether there are reasons to extend the work of the National Assembly. I don't think that's good. In this way, you are trying to avoid even what you had to have before, which is 126 MPs present in the hall, in order for their decision, or decision of the National Assembly, to be able to extend the work. In this way you are already making it clear that such a situation in the work, according to this new Rules of Procedure, will be something that is absolutely impossible and will not happen, but that at the beginning of the debate you will have a situation for 84 MPs to appear and that further debate will be held before an empty assembly hall. This is referred to in Article 82, where the previous formulation is changed at the beginning of the work, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly is determined. It is now replaced by the words that the number of MPs attending the sittings is determined. Paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The debate on individual points in the established agenda of the National Assembly session shall be conducted regardless of the number of MPs present". Now, it would be good if anyone from the ruling coalition or a proposing representative, who, of course, is not there, because there is something smarter to do, answered why it is necessary at the beginning of the working day in this 84-seat meeting, so that the Assembly can start working. Logically, that's completely pointless. And will it contribute to the work of the Assembly that 84 MPs will be present here at the first moment, and the next will be able to come out, unless there is already no obligation for Members to attend the debate during the working day? In this way you will make it possible for what you formally advocate – that MPs will no longer be able to come for the journal. They're about to, because there won't be a quorum needed to work during the day. Earlier, you had to, at least as-so, keep that minimum of 84 MPs, and you weren't able to do that either. I will remind you that the previous Rules of Procedure, which you have called undemocratic, is an obligation for all 126 MPs, as long as there should be some coalition that wants to be present in the O.R., first down to 84, and now you say you don't need that 84 anymore. The congregation committees will no longer have to do their job. According to the previous Rules of Procedure, the Assembly, if the committee responsible does not submit a report on a draft law, may decide to consider the draft law without the opinion of the committee responsible or to set a new deadline within which the Committee will be obliged to deliver that opinion. You are now predicting a situation where, unless the Assembly Committee has met and has given its opinion on a certain law, the Assembly will continue its work. You are also saying this because you are aware that you will never have that majority of 126 MPs, which is needed to make any decision of the National Assembly. For now, I'm going to interrupt my exposure, because I think it's extremely incorrect, for one thing, to discuss here without a proposing present. We are like the National Assembly brought into a bad situation that practically members of the government do not respect us in any way. The regular situation is that even they won't say anything about the draft law on the agenda. But when the president of the National Assembly acts like this and he won't listen to the arguments – although he's the only one, and as an individual, the applicant of the Rules of Procedure's proposal, and he misused his powers by putting it on the agenda – I really don't think it makes any sense for me to continue to engage in the debate. That is why I will report for all amendments to the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16204	Thank you very much. The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, and let Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16205	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, for the third time practically put MPs in a position to think well about how Parliament works, under which conditions they are elected, whom they represent, on whose behalf they speak, and in which procedure rules are defined which should be recognizable for everyone in this country and for others. I must say that none of the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure have been celebrated, because the corrections and this Rules of Procedure, in my understanding of things, are on the same track since 2001. It's not hard being a socialist for this pay phone today. So, I warn all those who, when they go to the election campaign and promise the rules of conduct, only when they come to power to honor what they promise. That, unfortunately, is not happening here. The parties forming the Government and the party supporting the Government number 131. The parties forming the government themselves have 109 MPs. With the so-called. The working quorum, which counts 84, has the possibility to be absent from the session 24 MPs and that there is a working quorum. This is not a recommendation for either government or government-backed parties. The corrections we have made, the amendments that have been accepted on the Administrative Committee by the proposings, will in some ways ease this situation. I have to say, I'm going to vote hard for this, quite the opposite personal understanding of this problem and this procedure that's here before us. I have advocated, in these five years, that the MP has a different status, that the number of MPs whose engagement is exclusively in the National Assembly - is increasing, that this is not an exclusive obligation, but that at least 200 or 220 people are solely related to the work of the Parliament, because with this dynamic and this importance of the legislative proposals we receive, it can only be done in this way. I apologize to colleagues who have different obligations – I understand that. But at least during this period that this country is going through, it's impossible for a parliamentary job, a parliamentary engagement, to be carried out "ad hoc". He's looking for a five-day presence on the ground or here in Belgrade, and he's asking us all to be committed to this job. As a result, no business regulation of the presence of MPs will get us far away. Unless, because of our personal responsibility to the voters, (in whose name we speak) we are not in a way that is completely consistent with what we promised when we went on the campaign, we are fully responsible for the work we are here for. In 2001, we had a radical change in the Rules of Procedure, which practically came up with several important principles of Parliamentism itself and led to senseless parliamentary engagement. Not only did we have a Rigid Rules of Procedure, but we also had a Rigid Speaker. I remind you, I'm sorry she's not here, it doesn't make sense when she doesn't attend to us talking about it, but Mrs Natasa Micic is not here, otherwise, rarely coming; she has so rigorously implemented the provisions of the former Rules of Procedure, that it will remain in the annals of parliamentaryism in Serbia. I remind you, the Rules of Procedure imposed a fine for the MP, the opposite of the Constitution and the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. We've been through different stages. The Constitutional Court said what he had to say. I would be happy, and the SPS should keep that promise – the cleanest thing is when you have 126 MPs in the hall, when you have a debate in principle, about details and you plead on the amendment, when everyone in Serbia understands what you are talking about and what you vote on. Voting day is an extremely complicated variant for those of us who are here, and even worse for those who are watching us. We have an obligation to speak with a eloquent, comprehensible language about the issues that are here. When you have 100 amendments on one draft of the law, if it is a month's voting day after the opening of a principled search, practically no one in Serbia can follow what is happening. I'm done, I'm leaving my colleagues time, I'm hardly voting for this. This is completely contrary to my understanding of parliamentaryism, contrary to my conviction and to the very essence of Parliament's existence. But the circumstances in which we live are the same. I call on my colleagues to pay attention and responsibly, still on a higher level than they've ever done so far, to do the job they've been entrusted with on behalf of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16206	Thank you. The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, so let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16207	Dear Mrs Pop-Lazic, ladies and gentlemen, when there is a sudden political shift and violation of the elemental democratic principles by individual representatives of political parties, and now those who are the backbone of Kostunica's government's authority, then, as well as such a move by Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a sort of expression of split personality. Because in order to gain knowledge of social and political processes and the development of democratic processes in one society, and especially in this, as we in Serbia have, after restoring multilaterals since 1990, we should, above all, have the necessary intelligence, wisdom, to understand people, to understand political opportunities. It is a comprehensive and tiring job, and many MPs, not only in this assembly of the National Assembly, but also in all of the so far, since 1990, have, in every respect, been able to come into this hall, unconditional for work, made in a real socialist time, when the factors at that time did not even think about restoring the multi-party and that we, as a society, would develop in this direction. Why am I telling you all this? Because of the fact that this assembly of the National Assembly, although it has an extremely unstable government that has to make (and that is the essence of its survival), rot compromises with coalition partners, compared to the previous, when DOS's were in power, for one reason only – which on this side, right from me, from the speaker, sits today the largest parliamentary group in Serbia, the most popular party in Serbia, which enjoys the greatest trust of the people. This is us -- the Serbian Radicals, whose president of the parliamentary group has been entrusted to this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for which all Serbian citizens rightly say that, in the right sense, the character of the People's Tribunal; and because the MPs of the SRS, only by respecting the basic democratic principles, have decided to participate in the work of the Committee, to assume that responsibility when it comes to the leadership of the Committee as president and vice president. It is an expression of reciprocity, in fact, the only way that the reflective force of the parliamentary group, i.e. the will of the people, is shown as it should be. Instead of listening to the largest parliamentary group and the president of the Serbian Radicals parliamentary group, when it comes to the experience of Serbia's parliamentary life, the National Assembly president, with very little experience for a year and a half in Serbia's multilateral life, above all in parliamentary life -- and that is the only thing that is valid. Because, as far as I know, he was not even a committeeman in some local self-government before, and then he came to the post of president of the highest legislative body – he was following a proposal, which was neither constitutionally founded nor a reflection of what has been the whole process of political life, turmoil and everything that has happened in our society in the past 15 years. So, he did not want to listen to the people on their backs who brought forth the fight for freedom of opinion and freedom of speech; and Prof. Vojislav Seselj, at the beginning of the only SRS MP, our president, today is doing so in The Hague – he is fighting for freedom and freedom of speech; and for Mr. Nikolic, and for all of us who have set an example for you, and especially by providing the resistance to the haughtiness and passion of the DOS government, we have shown that (measured everything that the people sees us as representatives of the people) – we wanted the Rules of Procedure, as an expression of the arrangement of this house here, which is called the National Assembly, to be what we are and as a people, and above all to be in harmony with the Constitution. This is not due to the fact that the government, absolutely unable to launch economic and other processes in our country, and, above all, by economic, economic and improving social opportunities – the creation of authority among Serbian citizens, has reached for this. So what the proposer says, who singled himself out as a superior figure to everyone else, and in fact he was just, and he should have known, the first among the equals. What he now proposes to this Rules of Procedure, which will be voted by those who may not, because of the rotten compromises. Or think about it, their amendments will be adopted; they have already agreed, which I am absolutely not interested in speaking in hypotheses in this principle debate. I'm only talking about what is the real proposal of Predrag Markovic, and he's not good. It destroys all democratic principles advocated by the SRS and the entire democratic public. I believe that every citizen of Serbia is intimate in giving the national representative the opportunity to speak. He does not want this draft of the Rules of Procedure to even respect what he was most rebelled against when he was in the election campaign and was running for MP. It is a decision by the Constitutional Court of Serbia, such as it is, made on 20 February 2004, to the performances addressed by the SRS, most likely in the DOS regime, that it is unconstitutional that the MP, whose parliamentary mandate the people transferred part of their sovereignty, is in any way limited in terms of exposure and debate in principle and in the debate on details. In order to influence, for my part, in any way in improving democratic processes in our country and in our society, unlike you, who in your name alone have that you are some of the democratic parties and you are putting yourself in some kind of block. Starting with the experience that the SRS has above all, and then through the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, which was sent to you in February 2004, by Serbian Radicals, whose representative is authorised and should be most invited to speak in this assembly, which is Mr Nikolic, I sought to vote, in the city in which I live, in the City of Kragujevac Assembly, with the consent and with the consensus of all political parties, by the Rules of Procedure, which will reflect the people's will. It was done and here comes Mr. Stevanović, Mayor of the Kragujevac City Assembly. Now I can tell you that this SRS initiative has been accepted by all, and by the ruling and opposition structures in our city, and that the town of Kragujevac today has the most democratic Rules of Procedure in Serbia. So, because there are no restrictions on the debate, because all the points of the agenda are spoken of as much as the committees want. Tonight we worked until one hour after midnight; we from the opposition, therefore, the SRS, New Serbia and DS, at one point we left the session, but it was our opposition right when amendments were discussed. All that is included in this Rules of Procedure is actually a reflection of what Mr Nikolic wanted in February of 2004, when he suggested that because of his experience, the experience of previous calls, that you too do so. It is not only clear to me, and ten days ago I expressed that suspicion, the intention in the City Assembly, that in one part the Rules of Procedure would change; I do not know what part; Mr Stevanovic gave firm assurances that it would not happen. Because that's exactly the biggest shift of what we, the political life factors in the town of Kragujevac, have done in the past, and we as an opposition. For me, it is incomprehensible that anyone – including those in the town of Kragujevac and here in power, supports this government of Vojislav Kostunica, and those who are opposition in some other cities – is supported by such a Rules of Procedure by Predrag Markovic. In this way, it will minimise the democratic shifts that have so far been achieved in our society, which depends on how who has brought many on their backs; Serbian radicals also through shaming and eviction, punishment and through going to prisons for a freely expressed opinion and for advocating a political idea; some just by coming and receiving wages, staging, pressing buttons, mostly for, not against, because each law suits them. I am talking to you about thinking hard when you vote; by voting such a Rules of Procedure you may do a service to Kostunica and an unstable government, in a situation where it has to undermine as many laws as possible, as is the case with this next session of 45 laws; a quickly called session and without some order and systematicisation of the areas to be discussed and voted on. I am telling you this and because it is clear that in all future councils, but also in a large number, and I am convinced – as the ruling set, the SRS will fight for it, which is what the citizens of Serbia want, that MPs can talk about all topics; and remember, every MP is an expert on every topic, because he is an authentic representative of the people. We are what our people are, we will fight for our freedom of opinion and speech, and we will do it in the way that we do it in all democratic countries, which Serbia cannot be if it adopts such a Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16208	The People's Messenger Hranislav Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when something is not going on, when something is not working well, the Rules of Procedure is in our way again. In this congregation, we kept bringing some rules of procedure, only with different colored covers, the hours are yellow, the hour blue. Every party that comes to power makes its own rules of procedure, only G17 didn't have a Rules of Procedure, and now we get it, I just don't know what color the cover will be. But we're going to have a Rules of Procedure G17. It is not clear to me that the ruling coalition cannot provide a certain number of MPs for the quorum, because I think that part can only be completed through the heads of Parliament clubs and that it was not necessary for us to lose three days in the work of the Assembly by bringing in a new Rules of Procedure. I don't see how we're going to speed up the work of the Assembly and save time to pass the laws faster. I'll explain later how long the amendment debate will take, in every Rules of Procedure, holes can be found, and probably parties and MPs' clubs will adapt, to make the most of their time. The Rules of Procedure that the Socialists have brought and we have worked on for many years is a democratic Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure that you propose to change every five to six months. I don't understand, and I don't even know where there is to work without a quorum. I led many local communities and many associations; in the rural local community, peasants do not allow you to start a session without a quorum. In a pigeon society, a sports association, in a hunting society, you also cannot hold a session without a quorum, and the largest body in the state – the Assembly, can work without a quorum. I don't think that makes much sense. With this Rules of Procedure, we won't save much time. The law usually has between 80 and 100 members, and over 100 members, and if it is time –15 minutes after one amendment, then MP groups – not so far, if it is more members, perhaps ten, only to the key ones to put amendments – will put a hundred and 15 minutes to you it is 1500 minutes per parliamentary group; it is translated, it is three or four days. I don't know where we're gonna get that in time. Next, if we wanted to speed up the work of the Assembly and make the laws faster, then this Rules of Procedure could only endure changes in one part, which is that immediately after the debate on the law and on each amendment. With that move we would always have a full hall, all MPs would be in their seats, because they would have to vote for their amendments. Everything that we've changed has no purpose at all. So the only move is that we've changed that member and there's no time to schedule voting days, but to vote in principle after the debate and after every amendment. I think that would accomplish everything we're talking about today. There may have been other solutions, and I also believe that there are solutions you may be justifying, and the promoter – Mr. Markovic, who is not in the O.R., thinks this will be easy for him. He could have orchestrated this kind of business, armed him until all the laws from the European community were passed. Until then, let's get back to the rules of procedure that the SPS has brought. It is a democratic Rules of Procedure, and the proposal of such a Rules of Procedure turns out that your parties should not wear an addendum to be called democratics. So, I repeat, perhaps this is the time-consuming rulebook that should have a lifetime, that lasts for two or three months; you mention some September, and then after September you apply the first SPS Rules of Procedure and introduce democracy in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16210	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic, and let MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16211	What my predecessor finished, let me continue. If in 1998 or 2000 the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were changed in the manner proposed by Predrag Markovic, NATO aviation would level this building, this hall and kill all the MPs legitimately, because they are major opponents of democracy unless they allow the debate to be conducted. Now, you see how the position changes, how the sides change, since the G17 plus came to power and concluded that the National Assembly needs to be effective, and we still don't know what they mean by "efficient" – whether it's effective in terms of quantity or quality. If the National Assembly is effective in terms of quantity, then it has really achieved great efficiency, because every other month we change the laws that we have previously passed. If you look at the list of all these laws that were passed in this conference, it will be seen that the Excise Act has changed five or six times, and the Company Law has changed, and here, today will begin a new session where we are changing the Business Registers Act, even though we of the opposition last year have pointed to all the problems of such a bad bill that the paraliamentary majority here, without thinking, has voted again to meet some coalition agreements and agreements. I would ask the chairman to inform the president of the National Assembly, MP Markovic, who is proposing this epochal change, that he should be present at the National Assembly Hall because his proposal is being considered. We asked in the same way to ensure the presence of a government representative, when it comes to some draft law proposed by the government. So, the National Assembly does not respect the Government, which is usually the legislator, and we see now – neither Predrag Markovic. He's not interested in this, he's counting on 126 votes and this going to go away. They'll take a break, and then tomorrow this session starts with 45 points of the agenda, which you'll probably end in 2-3 days. You'll be too efficient, but effective in destruction. It's the continuity of what's done. I would ask the chairman to inform Mr Markovic, please welcome Mr Markovic, come in, you must be explained some of the basic things of parliamentaryism in Serbia. The first thing you need to know is that there is one member in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia who empowers the National Assembly to arrange its organisation, way of work, but also the rights and duties of MPs. The second thing you must learn, as a proposing, is that each MP represents the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it represents one, 65,000 or 45,000 citizens, this story of the Rules of Procedure is not of primary importance. But it is important that there are people's representatives who represent the authentic will of citizens and they exercise the sovereignty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, in this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which still obliges us, and has to bind us in the extreme case, there are some solutions, and these solutions do not allow such intervention as Mr Markovic tried to make this proposal for a decision. What's this about? The president of the National Assembly, according to the Constitution, only represents the National Assembly, which is something protocolal, and has the rights and obligations set by the Assembly by law and rules of procedure. If it does so by law or by its rules of procedure, the President of the Assembly is only the first among the equal, which has much more obligations than any other MP. Unfortunately, we don't have that situation. Unfortunately, it's not. What must be known, the MP has the status of legislator, according to the Constitution. This status must not be questioned by any provision of any law, not even by the Rules of Procedure, without returning any further past and not being misunderstood by the interpretation of decisions of the Constitutional Court. This Constitutional Court of ours, by assessing the constitutionality of one decision, which a few years ago was amended by the Rules of Procedure, only went in part in the assessment, did not go to the end. And if he had gone to the end, be assured that we would have come to a solution that was valid in 1991. It was a democratic Rules of Procedure, which was part of the development of parliamentaryism and multilaterals in the Republic of Serbia. All that happened later was a restriction, but a restriction on the rights of MPs as official legislators. You've forgotten the status of the MP. Whether you like it or not, whether it stems from opposition or government parties, it absolutely doesn't matter about the Constitution. The MP is an authorised legislator, and has the exclusive right to submit amendments that may intervene on a specific proposal for an act adopted. In some ways, the constitution gives a mild priority to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in terms of the proposings, but we have terror here in practice, so that the proposals coming from MPs cannot see the light of day, or if, by any chance, a debate is proposed, i.e. inclusion in the agenda, the assembly majority simply rejects it and does not want to consider it. We have a practice that authorised act promoters are not equal, nor in this conference has the equality of the promoter been proven, in fact it has not proved itself, even though the Constitution guarantees. In that context, Parliamentarian Markovic, the president of the National Assembly, completely misunderstood what the parliamentary group is. A member group is not a constitutional category. It's an instrument, a technical tool. In your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure, make it an institution. She can't be an institution. It is a technical tool that must not endanger the right of the MP. You've tied everything to the MPs' groups. You could only do that provided that the Constitution has a clear provision that defines what a parliamentary group is and who are ambassadors' groups. In this context you go even further, and you say – to work a collegiate organ does not need a quorum, it is only necessary to decide. Excuse me, please, who's the MP from this pay phone to convince, if the President and the speaker are sitting in the hall, who's discussing something? How are you going to determine the order of when to apply and not tell you about other things, also technical things that cause problems. This proposal does not show the legal importance of the committee. All committees, whether it be one or 30 committees, as decided by the assembly majority - are only the working bodies of the National Assembly that have a preventive function, not to come to the agenda and that there is no debate on what is contrary to the legal-political system of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the committee also makes one institution, not only with its own rules of procedure, but also with the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, so why not the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens, where the working body gets the status of promoters in front of the National Assembly. You can't do that. The restrictions on discussions, discussions, the lack of quorum, are all measures that do not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and I would remind you of the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says that the National Assembly decides most of the votes, if most of the total number of MPs are present. One collegiate body can work if it has a quorum, if it has a substance. The National Assembly exists if there are 250 mandates verified and established. It's her full composition, she exists and can work. In order for her to work, she must always have the number of MPs she needs to make a decision. Finally, your desire for efficiency is at the heart of the public, the quality of the debate, and at the heart of the opportunities of the MPs to influence the draft laws. Unfortunately, with this change you are proposing and which you are likely to adopt, you have also amnested Dragan Marsicanin, and Natasha, not Kandic, but Micic. Candice won't be amnesty. You are entering the history of those who bury parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia. Don't forget just one thing -- if this were done in 1999 or 2000, while radicals participated in power, Serbia would be bombed. Today there are no problems, you have prepared public opinion, you have reduced the popularity of the National Assembly to 3 to 4%, trust in the National Assembly almost does not exist. So it could exist when the MPs present do not trust this institution. Look, whoever destroys parliamentaryism in one country is destroying the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16212	The word has the People's MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and let the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16213	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking the opportunity to address the Assembly again in this way, to welcome it with: "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament", because soon, when this Rules of Procedure comes into force, there will be no MPs in this room. Those on the left will be able to finish their private affairs, do business, participate in the work of boards, be directors of some businesses, because nothing will oblige them to be present in this room. With great attention yesterday, on both the Administrative Board and the National Assembly Hall, I listened to the President of the National Assembly and his lectured story about the beer factory and the gaster who is capable of spoiling the machine, drinking beer and receiving an 18-euro salary an hour or a day, and to realize that his message was that this country would fail if it was done. I listened to him here too, he says it's very necessary that we reduce the time of the amendments to 10 to 15 minutes, because the country will also fail if it's different. It seems to me that these were his strongest arguments to defend his proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I meant differently. I am one of the veterans of this parliament, as said Miss Natasa Jovanovic, who has been in this assembly since 1993, and I thought that during the course of time he will perfect work, cultivate democracy, freedom of speech, that this will be the home of the MPs in which they will be most important, who will be able to convey citizens' opinions on every topic. After all, the citizens have delegated us in our own way to respect their wishes, their will and to convey it here. However, much has changed. In 1992, we had a Rules of Procedure which allowed the MP to speak without a time limit about each item of the agenda and give his opinion and opinion. Then there was a change. Time is limited to 10 minutes, the MPs had the right to speak so much of the agenda, and we all protested justifiably for reducing the rights of the MPs. In particular, the DSS representatives were loud. As if yesterday, they sat in the first three rows, headed by Kostunica and protested sharply against it. Now they're advocating and helping to bring this kind of rules of procedure. However, it was the time of democratic Rules of Procedure. But just in case, she was always ready for the police to intervene and expel the MPs of the SRS, who fought hard for those people who entrusted them with their votes and sent them to the Assembly. Then came the time of democracy or "domania". With all these restrictions, fines for MPs have been imposed, for words spoken from this pay phone. Of course, and they kept that police instrument to force and with the injuries cast out the MPs of the SRS. So every year instead of making progress, we bring better rules of procedure, we have restrictions and growing penalties. Now you have introduced the highest degree of democracy – no one has to be in the O.R. This is where we talk to benches, walls, and no one has to listen to us. I wonder what the Messengers will do then, where will they be? The president says we're doing it so that we can transfer the focus of work, the debates to committees. But to work on committees, other than decision-making, you don't need quorum. It's enough for the board president to schedule a board meeting, sit there for 20-30 minutes and say the session is over; he doesn't give any reports to the National Assembly, because there hasn't been any work. The form is satisfied. Gentlemen, as president of the Traffic and Relationship Committee, I do not want to hold such committee sessions, which will not be attended by MPs, on which we will not search what is on the agenda, exchange opinions and propose to the National Assembly the best solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days, when a new Rules of Procedure was heard in public, the citizens asked us: why do you receive wages, what will your wages be – you are not on committees, you are not in the Assembly. What are you even doing? It's really something you can't accept. As MPs of the SRS, we might have an interest in being such a Rules of Procedure, perhaps even more restrictive. You know, this is gonna take a while, September-October it's over, and then it's our turn. But we don't think it's good to do this. It is necessary to allow MPs to cross their opinions, to keep fighting political and other battles in the National Assembly, because it is better to conflict here than to conflict on the street. The fact that we will have 10-15 minutes to defend our amendments means that the SRSP parliamentary group will have seven seconds. Our MPs are always there and always want to talk about every item of the agenda, because it is their duty and duty. Ladies and gentlemen, this Rules of Procedure won't be valid for long. Since New Year's Eve, the Radicals will bring a new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16214	The People's Messenger, Gordana Pop-Lazic, has the word, and let the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16215	Dear fellow Members of the People, without the intention of insulting the Proposer, since it is one member of the Parliament, I believe that all the problems arising from such a proposal for a Rules of Procedure stem from the reason why a parliamentary group or a representative of the parliamentary group, who has the least experience in parliamentary life, has proposed it. I'm not arguing that maybe the intention was good. One individual sees parliament in the way he has suggested, but I appeal to all the other MPs and all the other parliamentary groups, who have been in parliament for years and who have been following parliamentary life, to think about what this way of work is leading us to do. However, I believe that there are far more important problems for the public of Serbia that we should be dealing with and who are interesting for Serbian citizens, not how we will regulate our lives in parliament. But we also have to discuss it, given that it was considered necessary to discuss it now, when you have a session with more than 40 agendas, which I don't know when we'll end up in the summer. Given that we already have a proposal to merge seven, eight and 12 points of the agenda into a single search, it's another attack on the right of the MP to plead on every bill, and I think it's something that's absolutely and permitted and desirable, and it's the only reason we're here. I'm afraid there's nothing else behind this, and I've said it on the Administrative Board, because the fact, if you look back five years, that all state institutions are slowly collapsing: the military is no longer what it used to be, there's not even that kind of reputation in the people, which is the logical consequence of the situation in the military; the government and all those affairs that have shaken the previous government, and this one, and also those that will only be shaken, which will be heard, there's also no reputation for the judiciary, there's absolutely no reputation in the people, because for the last five years the judges' functions, and even for the functions of the President of the courts, people with no experience, by moral and political likeness, by the godfather, and no one can come to those functions that people who have proven themselves. Since neither the judiciary nor the military nor the government are respected anymore, let us now destroy the entire institution of the highest legislative body, or parliament. We were never satisfied with our reputation, though. It's our fault. Parliament itself does not have enough reputation, and neither does the institution of the MP. As a MP, I object to such a Rules of Procedure, because I do not want Serbian citizens to be completely demoted to follow what MPs do and to almost go to elections in the next election, because they do not want such MPs to do anything. Why would someone have the motive to go to elections to choose a MP, to have him come to parliament only to register himself, to enter this door, to receive a solid salary, to have some privileges (not least that he should have them, to do his job properly), and then to hear him no more, neither to see nor to represent his interests. I'm afraid it's really an interest, not only in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, but in general in those restrictions, which have been going since 2000 towards the MP and his rights in parliament, that's exactly what I'm afraid. Let's get as much motivation as we can for people to go to the polls. Why do we need democracy? If 20% of voters come out, it'll be much easier to manipulate them than if the mood comes out 60 or 70%. That's why the SRS objected, which is why it's tabled some amendments, the debate is unique, there's no special debate on amendments, so I don't want to talk about them in particular. But I would like to remind you that the whole problem has arisen now in this session because of the fact that this government does not have a majority in parliament, because we have a minority government and one political party that supports the government, and some draft laws find some other political party acting as an opposition to support the government. It's necessary to bring in a rulebook like this. Had you respected the voter's will in the last parliamentary elections, the parliamentary majority would have been and how strong, the opposition weak, and you wouldn't have this problem. So, the problem of minority governments is the functioning of parliament, but it works while it can. When he can't, he has to break up, go to a new election. So, all of you who represent yourselves as your Democrats, first, after the election, do not respect the democratically expressed will, then choke on the rights of the MPs. You remember Mr. Martians, and then Natasha Micic, the punishment of the messengers. At that time, we had to show plastics to other MPs who did not understand it, as well as to the public, which means when one ossion most of them dared to harass the Messenger of the people and to challenge him to speak. Then you have to show it in the most brutal way, to stand up to it, and then we had everything we had, so they called us anyway. Even the public didn't realize it at first, and maybe she was judging, and then everyone saw what was going on and what happened. The weak opposition, then with 23 MPs, forced that government against the wall and the government had to fall. So imagine now with these restrictions, when there must be no one in parliament, when we can walk in the halls, when there must be no one on the board, you expect some substantive debate, you expect a self-awareness with the MP to make some contribution to Parliament's work. I think it's absolutely wrong, the wrong way to go, not to deny that you may have had good intentions, but obviously not at this moment and not now. This Parliament would have to live and do as other parliaments do in the world, to be an institution in itself, that what he says anywhere and anywhere, all what he does is his personality, not to humiliate us to the extent that you leave us free to what anyone will and at what time he will do. I believe that this is the problem of small parliamentary groups or political parties that have been on the list of major political parties. They have no more members than the MP they have, so they have to send them to the field to maintain their own party organs, and hold the stands and appear on the media and so on. This is also the case with your political party, which has now been found here in parliament and is likely never to be found again, and we will have to again next year, after these early elections that will be safe, to deal with this problem and to bring some new rules of procedure. I appeal to my fellow Members to take care of everything proposed by Mr Markovic. Mr Markovic will almost certainly not be in parliament next year. Let's keep this as his historical document, maybe that's his wish. But we will have to work on it again and build parliamentary democracy looks from the beginning. Since 1990, we have only gone according to restrictions, allegedly because we want an efficient parliament, as if we are doing what we do, and if we pass 200 laws, we are more valuable. Sometimes it's better if we don't get some law. We're not just here to make laws. We are here not to allow the government (it is the task of the opposition) to pass a law that we consider not good for the citizens of Serbia. What we are tasked with is to explain from this place to the citizens of Serbia what awaits them if a law is passed. It's easy for ministers, they come here, they can talk as much as they want, tell their story. What's the background of that story? How does that reflect on each and every one of us? We don't have anywhere to show it. Sometimes I open the fridge, so I expect Dinkic or Labus to show up from the fridge. But to the opposition MPs who see it on the other hand, what are the repercussions of this law? I'm sorry, we have no other options but here for this pay phone to explain it to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16216	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party submitted its proposal to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of Serbia almost a year and a half ago. However, the proposal did not enter the assembly procedure. Now, after a year and a half of the work of this House, we have come to a situation to discuss changes and additions to the already existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that since 1990, when a multi-party system was established, so to speak, the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure on Labour were increasingly restrictive, and that all parties that made up the parliamentary majority swore to bring in a more liberal Rules of Procedure on Labour, which would allow for more rights and freedom and, in the end, respect the rights guaranteed by MPs under the Constitution. However, it happened quite the other way around, that every new set that came to power and made the parliamentary majority bring all the more restrictive rules of procedure, so that during the period of the Democratic Party's rule, we had the most restrictive Rules of Procedure, where MPs were brutally expelled from the assembly hall and fined. I see the ex-president Natasa Micic, who is the noun of the much more notorious Natasa Kandic. This draft rules of procedure only restricts the rights of MPs, which mainly concern assembly committees, ways of proposing acts brought by the Assembly, the course of the assembly session and how to vote in confidence with the Government. In some ways, I can understand why he put forward such a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The parliamentary majority has easily pledged to join the European Union quickly. One of the conditions for entry into the European Union is, of course, the harmonisation of the law with the European Union's regulations. However, this condition is not enough to enter the European Union. There are a number of political and economic conditions that the country must meet in order to become a full member of the European Union. The uncritical adoption of hundreds of acts in the jurisdiction of this home has led us to have the situation, for example, that this assembly of the Assembly has changed the Excise Act four times in the last year and a half. This is the result of this lightly promised speed and uncritical review of the legal projects that come before this home. Last year, before the new year itself, the promoter gave a report on the work of this house and stated that 88 laws had been passed. However, we are witnessing that the next session has 45 points of the agenda and more than half of it – amendments and additions to the laws adopted by this house, which shows that a large number of laws, adopted in hastily, have not been well done. And the ruling majority, and the government as a promoter of almost all legal projects, saw that the laws adopted by this house were not good and that they had to change. Therefore, high speed is not recommended and the adoption of laws and general acts in large numbers is not good. Quantity does not mean that it will also fulfill the quality that laws and general acts need to have. What I would specifically say about certain members of this proposal concerns, above all, the work of the Committee, where the right of Members of Parliament who are not members of the Committee to participate in the work is denied. They can't vote on board sessions by nature. But I don't see any reason why they wouldn't be able to participate in the discussion and the committee's work. In addition, a five-minute discussion shall be limited. In addition, one authority is given to the president of the National Assembly, completely unclear why, that he can extend the work of the National Assembly himself after 18.00 hours and in those days when it is not scheduled for the Assembly to ambush. So he can do it himself, without voting, if he can justify the reasons and if he announces them to the MPs. In addition, it has been mentioned here many times that the quorum is not needed for the work of the National Assembly, which lowers the validity of the debate and decision-making of this home. Also, for the first time, a highly undefined norm appears in the Rules of Procedure, which refers to the legislator, "by the rule", states in the reasoning of law and the basis in the European Union's legislation and the general rules of international law. It's completely unclear why such a norm would be inserted that contains "the rule". What does "by the book" mean? It means he can, and he doesn't have to. Secondly, the Constitution of Serbia absolutely does not know the possibility that the proposing calls for rules of international law or legislation of the European Union. There is no difference in the proposals for the law of the promoter which is called for by the European Union and those who are not invited. A lot has been said about the restrictions on amendments introduced towards parliamentary groups, where the parliamentary group receives linearly 10 minutes, regardless of the number of MPs it has in the Assembly. Finally, I would point out in particular Article 21 of this decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, where the possibility or regulation of the institutions of non-confidential voting is envisaged. The government law, which adopted this House, so the President of the Republic returned to the re-election, and will again vote at this session on the Law on Government, also made a harsh violation of the Constitution, which concerns the government's non-trust institute by the MPs. So it is enough for 20 MPs to sign a non-trust application to the government and it must be put into the assembly procedure, to open the debate and vote on the request. In Article 158, paragraph 3, which is amended, the motion to vote for mistrust to the Government or to an individual member, on a reasoned proposal from the authorising officer, shall be allowed to enter the assembly procedure provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. So, the assembly majority again restricts the government's mistrust institute by conditioning it with 126 MPs in the O.R., so that there could be a debate and a vote of no confidence in the government at all. The Institute of Distrust is a constitutional category and the constitution foresees it as such. This home cannot decide whether or not to put a mistrust on the agenda. It just has to. With this provision, the ruling majority, in fact, wants to check and see if the government still has support or not. If there are no 126 MPs in the hall, it will simply not be put on the agenda by the government, and the ruling majority knows that there is still a majority and the government remains to rule, and if it appears in the 126 MPs' room, it is automatically known that the government has lost confidence in this home. However, the government's trust-testing institute cannot depend on whether it is 126 or not, I don't know how many MPs. Simply, by the letter of the Constitution, this item of the agenda must be put on the agenda and it must be discussed mistrust of the Government. This, in an unexplainable way, puts the assembly home itself in a position of subjugation towards the executive government and gives it protection because the prime minister and members of the government have no obligation to take account of their work in front of this home. The government's non-confidential institute, meaning the motion to vote for mistrust, does not necessarily have to cause the government's fall. Simply, the opposition has the right to ask the question, to criticise the government's work and to make citizens aware of the opposition's views. The demand for a no-confidence vote has been overstated and directed in this direction, so that the opposition can present its views to voters and take a critical look at the government's work. Finally, I would say that a large number of amendments, 32 amendments, which have been tabled by almost all MPs' clubs according to this amendment and the addition of the Rules of Procedure, indicate that this House is far from a consensus on this act, which is the most important act for this House, because it regulates the work and procedure in this House. We don't think it's right for the assembly majority to impose their will on a single act that, in fact, regulates the work of all of us who are in this home. Therefore, I believe that the promoter should first agree his views with all the parliamentary clubs, and then come out with this proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure's decision. The Serbian Radical Party will not vote for such proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. We think we've made a much better proposal for a Rules of Procedure. However, this home had no hearing about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16218	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours. [[After break – 16,00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Before we give the word to the next speaker, I ask you to establish the quorum. We have a quorum. We're continuing our work. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16220	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it seems to me that only now that we have seen a proposal to merge certain points of the agenda and a joint principled search, so more billing, we understand what the essence is and why you are in such a hurry to adopt this Rules of Procedure. Changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure are bad for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, bad because this is, above all, a few very important things of general interest to the citizens of Serbia. Usually, as a general legal act, a sublegal legal act, regulates internal rules of conduct, relations between MPs, parliamentary groups, relations in parliament, a relationship to asking certain questions in the system and to the control of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the Republic of Serbia and so on. However, when this restrictive Rules of Procedure is adopted, I must say that it is particularly interesting that the government has to explain why it is denying certain parliamentary rights to the MPs, why it humiliates the National Assembly, that is, not to the end, why it abolishes democracy, that is. why democracy comes down to an incomparably lower level. So, what's this about? We listen every day to the same story as those who need to convince us that the proposal for this sublegal legal act is ideal, that it is brought for greater efficiency, that we will pass more laws, faster into the European Union, I don't know what's going to happen just this one more to vote. That's how they convinced us before you. So every time the rules of procedure were changed, they always said the same thing. In the past few times, only restrictions have been made on MPs, especially opposition parliamentary groups. It is no secret, it is quite clear and almost obvious, I would say for everyone, that this Rules of Procedure was made primarily against the SRS, against the opposition in principle and against the large parliamentary groups. What's this about? I'm gonna go back to that amendment story just for a little while, 'cause I didn't get a satisfactory answer. How is it possible for the SRS parliamentary group, that 82 MPs, or as many mandates as the people have given to the Serbian radicals, that so many people can come out and explain the amendment, in 15 minutes, as you have given to those who have 22 MPs in this assembly. It is discrimination against SRS MPs, it is a direct discrimination against the largest parliamentary group and direct opposition and opposition to the people's will, people who voted and voted wanted to be represented by certain representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. They usually gather like that when the vote is coming, because they don't do anything all day, so what do you do? So there are a few interesting things I want to talk about here. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of us MPs in the Serbian Parliament today have very high incomes. And the ones from the interior are much more. But Belgradeers also receive over 100,000 in different ways. I ask you, have the MPs earned so much money and that the citizens pay the MPs with so much money, that they do nothing, that they are two in this high house, either two or two, that there are one, two, two, two, or whatever you want, and that they do whatever they want. So, they don't have to do anything, we'll wait five hours, it'll be a debate; I'm talking to myself, even if it doesn't mean anything lexical and I don't care; after five hours we'll get together, and someone's gonna vote something. Here in the Assembly, what someone is saying, that someone doesn't care – it's not a problem, but then I ask a question – why have some come to this high house? Why did they come to the National Assembly, to be remembered by the people for eating good cabbage salad in a restaurant, or for being a good tomato juice or lemonade here at the bar, not to talk about beer or anything else. It's funny to some people. This is the topic, if you do not understand, this is the main topic, because you are today adopting a Rules of Procedure that is possible at 10 o'clock in the Assembly of 84 MPs, with amendments, which we do not have in the initial text of the proposal for a sublegal legal act, and then everyone gets lost, go where my dear ones are doing something smarter. The president of the Assembly, as one of the highest politicians in this high school, tried to find another explanation for it at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, and he said: in the modern world so-called Parliamentary diplomacy is losing importance. So, you know, compared to what it meant a century ago or by establishing diplomatic and consular rights there, in the right sense of the word, since the origin of the state, it's never been on a lower level and it's never meant less. It is funny to say that this is an excuse for the citizens of Serbia: now because of parliamentary diplomacy you have the right to do nothing and not participate in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So the citizens of Serbia have already responded to what you are doing today. They say this is paid by all the taxpayers of Serbia, and they will not watch at any time two people or that no one has to show up at the pay phone. People want to watch those who go out for this pay phone, make proposals, amendments, work in the National Assembly, because then the Assembly makes sense. If we're not able to do that, then the Assembly doesn't make any sense. So, we might say -- as Mr. Markovic pointed out here through his good metaphors, I'm sure they're very smart, although I didn't understand everything, I'm not likely to be at that level, but I guess I'll be in the future if there are better suggestions. But the point is, people, let's make one conclusion that every MP has the right to speak for ten minutes. Let's say we don't want to limit it and you'll see, no one will abuse it. Now I can stop for a pay phone and what, introduce security, and last two days, and there's no debate. That's what no one will do when normal relationships are. I say again, there are much better relationships, and if you want partly and thanks to you, than they were in the last session, when they were just waiting for how much money to steal us and how to throw us out. You do it, but rarely. They did it thoroughly and daily. They didn't think of anything else. Looks like they had a budget problem, so the easiest thing was to fill it up by taking radicals to steal everything. So the bottom line is, it's not that problem; it depends on what kind of relationship they're going to establish both people and political parties, and what the situation is in society. It is impossible for every moment and every time we have a new proposal, that it must be restrictive and that it must bring new restrictions on the rights of MPs. Come on, guys, when we've come up with that kind of pay raise, even though it's the opposite of the will of the SRS, let's increase our obligations, not say you can do whatever you want. Here, nice weather, summer, so one to sit at the Russian Emperor's, one to go, I don't know, to the Bahus and the Monza, and the other to go, I don't know which bar and where. They do a very good job, and how they talk to the citizens. It can't be an official duty. Each MP is required to be in the National Assembly and to participate in the exercise of legislative activity. It's his primary obligation, and everything else is secondary, incomparably less important. That's what someone in the state of Serbia needs to understand today. Why can't you explain this to anyone today? There's no explanation that he's gonna say, "Yeah, well, there's that somewhere out there." There are, and in part such solutions are present in the Anglo-Saxon legal-political systems and very rarely in the continental, but I don't know why. The key question is, if you think you're right, Mr. President, I ask you, why don't we here have seven MPs, because I count that we have seven parliamentary groups or six, well, six of us, and each of us has, as head of Parliament's group, a paper that says: here's my vote worth 82, and his vote is 22, his vote 34, his 37; then why don't you introduce a delegate system, what do we need MPs for? How could 84 MPs or 82 be evened with 22 MPs? It's not possible, but it is even. It's not in the principle debate, but look what you're proposing next. Now you've come up with a proposal, I think it's from your party, to conduct a joint search of eight or nine laws. Now nine or ten laws. People, we have 90 minutes and we're going to have, say, 150 amendments or 100 amendments, and that's going to be 1,500 minutes allowed on amendments, and you have 90 minutes in principle and the SRS, which has 82 MPs, then there are 1,592 minutes, and let's say the SPS that has 22 or SPO, or the G17 plus, is going to have 1.540. What's the difference? Explain to me. Is there a difference in time? There's a big difference in that minimum time. Listen, the difference in the number of MPs is 4:1 or 3:1 and here is the difference 1,0003:1. Yes, Mr. Markovic, that's basic logic and mathematics. Now you can say that one plus one is three, it wouldn't surprise me. But it's not -- it's two as far as I know, and the citizens of Serbia know it. No one will look forward to this, nor will you God know what to gain, because the opposition has always found a way to counter restrictive measures. Whoever comes to power, always the opposition finds methods of action, finds ways of how and what he wants to do, how and how he wants to show and present his political views. I am convinced that you have no illusions about this matter and that you know that we will continue to do as we have so far, regardless of all the limitations that are imposed on us here. I urge you once again to accept those amendments, especially to Article 8, which speaks about how these committee sessions work. People can't go board session without a quorum and have one or two present. Where there is it, show me the land where it is. Two of them are present at the board's meeting and the board's sitting is running, they've apologized nicely, seven coffees are listed, and I don't know what else they can do, but I just don't know what this has to do with the National Assembly and the People's MPs. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman, if the time of the SRS parliamentary group is up. We invite you, once again, even though I know how this works, always in the Assembly agreements are reached between political parties, I call on moral people to oppose this. I suppose there are those within the government who won't vote for such a proposal of the Rules of Procedure. I call upon you, in the same way, as you have rejected the initiatives and suggestions of some of the former, who wanted TV broadcasts to be lifted, and they have abolished themselves in previous councils, that you do not do this because your personal one is incomparably higher than their own chalk, and I am talking about people who have managed this assembly, or those who have chaired, guided, as you will. Don't take him down like this. This is a bad message for Serbian citizens. The citizens of Serbia, it's true, they want to change, but they want good laws, not efficiency by bringing what comes to someone's mind. People want good laws, they want to live better. In order to live better, they'll have to wait a little longer until the radicals finally win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16221	Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89? Here's a word from MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16222	I'll be very brief. So here we had the opportunity to hear the interpretation of what was proposed. At first, I said that the DSS was, above all, for decisions, as proposed here, to be made by consensus in parliament. Obviously that was not possible, because in the negotiations we had, the talks we had on amending the Rules of Procedure, and yet I say, the initiative for these changes is in the ruling coalition, we did not have adequate participation of opposition representatives, or at least an adequate desire to seriously engage in what is proposed. A series of serious objections to the proposed text we heard yesterday and today, a part of these remarks, through the amendments, was incorporated into the text of the proposal for a decision because they were accepted by the promoter in the formal sense of that word, therefore, Mr Predrag Markovic. So today we have a text with whom, which is our judgment, not most of the objections we've heard here. In fact, it is not only about increasing the efficiency of work, but also about the quality of work in the National Assembly. We believe that certain provisions, which must be seen in the context of all the provisions proposed here, contribute to a better quality of work and the quality of lawmaking, especially in that area that treats the amendment work on the committees of the National Assembly. Therefore, because of its generality, as I initially said, the DSS will vote in favour of the proposed text of the decision, of course, which includes in itself those amendments that the proposing has accepted in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16223	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16224	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have ten minutes left, since I used one piece of it in the principle debate. Today, responsibility, higher quality of work, and the need for a good portion of congregation activities to move into committees, as working bodies of the National Assembly. There we could agree that we have received any more stringent principles of action or more serious principles of work of the committees themselves, more stringently, and that they have some greater powers than they have today. Why did I say this? Because it's a different practice for the board to work in our country than, say, at the American Congress. What's this about? In our country, there is, above all, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for every decision absolutely the right of authentic interpretation of all norms. On boards, we can declare that the globe is cubed, as some have already suggested, at assembly sessions, but the Serbian Parliament cannot adopt it. But if someone adopts a committee and something that's right, and the Assembly thinks differently, what's voted here in this high house counts. The Committee's decisions do not have any fact in legal traffic, except extremely, when it comes to meetings of the Administrative Board, on certain personal issues, and almost nowhere else. That's why the story is that now much more will be done in cults, on committees, that this way will advance activity, and the citizens of Serbia will not be able to see it simply not true. According to your proposal for a Rules of Procedure, the board's session can take a while to get one or two or three people inside. What's the problem? If you have a problem with the opposition's obstruction, if we're not going to give you a quorum somewhere, let's say the SRS or any other party, you have a majority on each board, except the Sports Committee and the Tourism Committee, I think. Make where there is no such problem, so let most of them have for that one how much it belongs to, as it belongs to these norms, according to the parliamentary majority here, let's have that one more and you don't have a problem. Is that why we need to destroy the committees, one, two or three of them, to be present at board meetings, while the two of them in the Serbian Parliament? Is that Serbian citizens watching? How can we convey the congregations, who will go out for a pay phone? No one. No one has a duty, dear one, the people have to see nothing alive or see or hear anything, because we are doing important jobs of interest for the Republic of Serbia. And where we do them, at the Moscow bar, at the Russian Emperor, and at the corner bar. You know, it's something that's absolutely unacceptable. There is not a single thing that is more important to the MP than the National Assembly. Those high wages we receive in this National Assembly, what did we justify? By reducing our obligations, by saying: Thank you, Serbian citizens, for making so much money for the National Assembly and for the MPs, now let's all disband ourselves. Well, you can't do that. It is neither correct nor fair to the citizens of Serbia. They seek responsibility, seriousness, and work. Ask yourself how many of those who do not even know the nearest area of their place of residence, let alone the fact that they have made themselves known in their work at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Have they done anything for this country and this assembly through committees? No, they're not. One more thing. When you talk about efficiency, you as an effective president, please, Mr. Markovic, tell me when will the draft law on amendments to the Privatisation Act be put on the agenda? I signed it myself and filed it a year and three months ago. Will it? So he will, but for a year and three months we seem undereffective enough to be on the agenda. Therefore, when it takes ten laws at once, as our people would say "jutura" to adopt, ten laws can be adopted at once and then the proposal comes from your parliamentary group to go along with the debate, a joint debate in principle and in ten laws – 90 minutes, which will say that we have about nine minutes under the law, and what will say that we are somewhere for six seconds per MP for each law. I'm talking about the MPs of the SRS. If you can tell me how it is possible in six seconds an MP, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and with respect for the elementary standards of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia as a lex superior, can express his position? It can't be. It's impossible. So this is something that not only is unacceptable, but shows some kind of mockery to the citizens of Serbia, mocking parliamentaryism we go further. Democracy is something we started to build. We build it and go through different stages. Democracy, as a form of political regime, is something that we seem to have achieved in one part, but there is much more we need to do to say that we live in a democratic country. But don't make every time come up with a brilliant idea. I will remind you of a brilliant idea of the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, in the past meeting, which, when we applied for the government's shift, said: the opposition cannot change the government because the opposition did not even choose. Then we tried to answer. The lawyers laughed, the first class of legal-berotechnic graduates laughed. You're laughing now, too. Everyone laughed, there was no answer to show up, but it went into the anals, and it would stay for hundreds of years for students to learn. I want to make one remark that fortunately isn't that kind of nature, of course. You say "once a month," we don't have that in the proposal of this sublegal legal act, we'll be able to ask the ministers questions, bring them here, get them out, get them to answer certain questions. This has nothing to do with the issue of trust with the government, with the question of trust with certain ministers. We asked the question of trust to certain ministers. What happened? The majority says, "Listen, you will now discuss the confidence of Minister Dinkic, Minister Vuksanovic, we have better things to do now! It's not a good timing, you haven't chosen a good time, you have to choose a time when the authorities answer, not when it suits you. Since the government is not responding to us now, we're not going to classify it at all and we're not going to talk about it. "It is directly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not only linguistically but logically, but also the system of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. So, basically, you can't participate in the debate and convince someone that it's better for the government to change, that a single minister is being replaced, because no one, neither can nor wants to hear an argument against it. I know you know I'm right and I'm not asking you for an answer on this matter. I'm not asking for an answer from anyone else on this side, who knows I'm right, I'm just pointing out that constantly reducing the rights of the opposition doesn't lead to anything. Since the debate on Vladan Batic, we have not had a single debate on any Serbian government minister. Would you like to retaliate with what some have boasted in the previous election campaign -- how they interrupt book promotions? Here, they interrupted Professor Milosevic's promotion of the book and said the highlight of democracy is to interrupt his promotion of the book. The highlight of democracy is: interrupt the stands, interrupt the rally or I don't know what. Who taught someone somewhere that you're interrupting something because they think otherwise, is talking, because they want to express their ideas. We're against it, no matter who it's about. Mr. Milosevic is our political opponent, but that's true. No one can do that. We look at some; God forbid me, that I forgive this high house; fools daily, who think it's the smartest. One in a radio show says, "I'd put everyone on a stadium and never let them get out of there." I'm saying, he looks like such a democratic, sweet one. I wish he wasn't using state organs. I see some laughs are satisfied, we'd like that to happen. Don't use the state organs to do it, but let them try to do it themselves. It wasn't about you, they know who it was. Some Vlajic, Vlaičić, I don't even know what his name is, some kind of genius from the stadium. He had a crush on him, and he got very smart, so let him take him to the stadium if he can. I'll be out in an hour and a half, so he can try to take me to the stadium. That'd be nice. Ladies and gentlemen, the citizens of Serbia want to change, they want to live better. Serbian citizens want democracy and want a respected parliament, not further collapse and humiliation of the National Assembly, the highest legislative body. So please accept the amendments to the SRS. I'm counting, you won't ban us from pleading on that. I call on you not to accept the proposal of this and this kind of rules of procedure, to build a better future together and build a democratic system in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16225	Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) You did not use the right, you had to apply in writing earlier. Under Article 89, you don't have a word. (Zivadin Lekic, from the site: I checked in with you earlier and you wouldn't let me.) ) Before I conclude a unique search of the motion for a decision, does the motionor want a final word? Yeah. Here you go. Read Article 89. Rules of Procedure, you should have filed a report in time. There is a time when applications are given to both parliamentary groups and independent MPs. You didn't do it in time, and that's why you didn't get the word this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the most part of the discussion and I would like to begin by thanking you once again, because I understood from these discussions – even though some have openly said that they did not understand everything, I hope that I understood everything – that there are two kinds of concerns regarding the Assembly, concerning our country. Once again, this is the only body of government that represents all citizens, the other does not exist, and that is why I share the concern of all of you to reflect the changes in this House's work on many issues: democracy issues, protection of minority rights, protection of the rights of the majority, small and large parliamentary groups, parties that have received one, four or five, depending on what kind of electoral system, MPs. But for starters, I'd like to agree. So coalition agreements preceded the formation of electoral lists, as only from the electoral lists came to parliament, and based on some of these coalition agreements, there happened to be one or two MPs per party who thus came to parliament. There's no reason to make a mistake. We've, by the way, brought a lot of confusion. First, I would agree with the key finding of the previous speaker. No one's gonna be happy about this. We need to explain why. Because sometimes you have to do things, because they're important to your life, to the situation you've found yourself in, and you can't choose to keep looking forward to it. The citizens of Serbia want to change and it is natural to want them right away, not to talk about changes, and it is natural that they want, first of all, to see them in their MPs, in the people they have already chosen here, and therefore the direction of the change that goes in this proposal is such: as possible, we will go in order, we will provide, not to write on paper that everyone is working, that everyone is representing, that everyone is working for the good of the people, but to do so. This is one of the possible suggestions, God forbid it's ideal, he has all his limitations. The first is the electoral system, the Constitution, everything he has to comply with and what he has to respect, and what I stand for; the second are the basic principles of democracy; the third are experiences that we can technically pass on to the work of our Assembly. Most of the experiences we cannot bear, and I have repeatedly informed the public and you. This assembly, like our state, is poor, works in abnormal conditions, has no technical option, no one is (and especially professional service and MPs) adequately rewarded. But that doesn't reduce the obligation of the MPs and these congregations, so I keep insisting on comparisons with factories, shops, people in the country, to do the most in the context of our opportunities. It's possible not everyone wants to work. I think it's natural, in all societies it is. You know that someone defines that they are competing and earning, and someone defines themselves as simply stopping the moment when they meet the existential need. All this has to be settled by law. When citizens, voting for election lists, elected MPs, did not know whether these MPs would be MPs of the ruling coalition, or whether there would be at all coalitions, or whether they would be opposition. So, with great confidence, they gave their vote, which in politics is the highest value, that their representatives will influence decisions. I've heard in the discussion a lot of incredible occupancy with executive authority: what and how the government does, some part of the executive government, some minister. But here we organize the work of MPs, and that is why the key question is – how does the MP fulfill the obligation that the citizens gave him, trusting him with authority. We've made a series of suggestions. Of course, many of us are skilled speakers and they've raised the scale high here, so now I'm going to have to go back to a whole series of suggestions that are here, to explain them one more time, so there's no mistake in the intention, and why a certain solution was offered. I'm going to start one more of the questions I asked when I first came to this House. I have no experience. I thank all those who have pointed out this, but I also thank you for that infinite collegiate wit of all the MPs who have said: eh, that you understand each other in parliamentaryism. It's, like, like an old anecdote, I'm not going to tell you, I guess you all know it, which Mr. Michiz was talking about. Eh, so you know the sanskrit. I immediately asked what the working quorum was for, as we keep talking about the working quorum. I didn't notice any convincing answers, which my predecessor would say without me understanding them. To a meaningful question: what is the working quorum for, I have received different answers. It is a habit from previous parliaments, from various calls, which is the result of the executive's obsession that it should subdue parliament and prevent MPs from working; to force them to sit in abnormal conditions and not affect the laws. That is why a whole series of mechanisms, which are apparently available, according to the Rules of Procedure that we now have, do not allow MPs to influence the laws. I'm going to give you a little example of what's going on on the boards. We have heard the situation, which is clearly explained to me, which says – you have the beginning of one committee, the committee is considering a whole series of objections to the law and during this discussion is pressuring the motionarian, the present MPs, because they have the right to attend all MPs, and they are trying to convince them. This is Serbia, and it often happens here, what one of the MPs said, that something is being rejected by the resolution, no, that's what he suggested, and he's an MP for the opposition, and we won't accept it. The arguments are on the side of the MPs. It happens most often on these committees that the proposer, which remains in this meeting, is the most common government (although a huge step has been taken in putting on the agenda a whole series of points not proposed by the government), so it happens that the minister, since the topic has suddenly become hot, and some of the objections already made to the public—can be asked by representatives of the ruling coalition. I use these terms on an extremely conditional basis, because I really don't make the difference that way, but that's what they're saying, they don't get into the board's session. In this way, the cameras that have come and the journalists who need to pass it, the experts who are invited, (and most often are) to help further clarify a law – all this cannot even begin. So there is no obstruction of the opposition, there is obstruction of the ruling coalition. Of course, if you're going to look for a way to increase obstruction, then you can go either way. The promoter went the other way. He sought a way that no one's right could be compromised, which he would say -- that, the chairman of the board, another member, would mean at least one or two parties, and would already be able to begin the committee's work. So no one can stop the obstruction - he didn't want to step foot or he wanted to step into the O.R. It may be a very well-intentioned idea, but yesterday I made it clear – all the suggestions are to give how to improve the condition, to allow the machine to work, to produce, to have people to live on, and not to say, "uh, what would be a machine, but let us help." Of course, there's a whole series of possibilities for the machine to break down. But I've taken really little care of it. On the other hand, if so many people are willing to participate, it's okay, they'll succeed. That's why I suggested, first of all, taking care of the smallest parties, the ones that are least represented, because once again I say, every MP here must have equal rights. So this way it's prevented that their good initiative to get on the board, get away. Secondly, we had to make this proposal possible in another way, not exactly full equality, but an opportunity for representatives of smaller parliamentary groups. I'll give you a plastic answer on the amendment and their presentation at the session. But once again, I remind you, the assembly is not this hall. At the session, in order for you to be able to consider some law, he comes, and before that was discussed on committees. Someone just showed, the government has now scheduled a session with 49 points of the agenda. So the boards will have to work hard. The largest parliamentary group of this call, and I have really taken care of the proposal on various experiences, currently has 81 members, or MPs who can participate in the work of those committees. This means, since there is no quorum here to allow MPs to work, that eight members of the group on each committee can represent positions at the same time. Of course, ten committees don't happen to work at the same time, but everyone present has the right to use the same time. That's why the bill isn't true. In general, lobbying for one amendment to pass, to improve one law, that means that what they voted for for you, to ensure that it becomes an integral part of the law, you have a proportional time. But we had to make some concessions to those who couldn't make it. Here, let's say, 22 members of the other opposition party can't make it to ten committees, but they split into 2.2. They will define themselves and must at least have the right to have 15 minutes when the amendment is presented, which is, according to the amendment adopted here, done to present its position. Imagine only the parliamentary groups that have five members, how will they arrive? So, they can't be able to participate on all committees, to follow the whole discussion, because sometimes the discussions will be very long, as they always do, because the bigger the law, the more significant the topic - are longer discussions and they have to come to the opportunity to at least have that equality that they can have in front of the parliamentary group, which is not a constitutional category, to speak 15 minutes after the amendment and thus to present the public and the fact why they couldn't influence enough. They're going to say, there's so much activity, citizens are in a hurry to make a change. But the laws of these changes, so many congregations, and you voted to make us only five or nine, and we couldn't achieve it. If you had voted to make 70 easier, we would have achieved it and then it would be no problem for us to now, between our 70s here, choose one or two who are convincing enough, and all of us are sufficiently educated and eloquent enough to represent one amendment for 15 minutes and explain it well to the citizens and, of course, the promoter. In any event, a double circle of reading of the amendments was opened with this proposal. I'm going back to why not everyone's looking forward to it. Of course, a whole series of mechanisms allowed one to talk and another to work, to go out and say, "Here, we worked so much today, we were all there, we were successful on boards." But it has to be proved, people really have to be there. Secondly, the ruling coalition no longer has the mechanism that it has been; this new rules of procedure has been restrictive for the ruling coalition, it has to hurry to participate, contribute, that the laws it supports improves and listen well to the arguments "against" on every committee, will be able to prevent the committee from starting, because there is no quorum necessary. Of course, I totally understand that people are experienced. They know it's possible to do anything wrong. Instead of the two of them starting something that will make the ruling coalition's representatives arrive urgently, instead drinking coffees, talking, leaving the assembly. Of course it's possible, as it is possible to happen in every factory, in every house. There's a little problem, when it's done at the factory -- you get fired. When you do this in the Assembly – citizens do not vote for you, because it will become obvious. The MPs are, of course, capable and eloquent people. I don't see one among you who isn't, maybe one. So I was thinking of myself, because I can't see myself. To repeat, MPs are extremely capable, eloquent people, which is why you chose the parties you trusted. That goes for all MPs. Once again, I can't just see one of those. So, for this speaker, where the same rights remain, which protect democracy, a fully proportionate relationship in the national search -- will be able to tell citizens clearly why something happened and will have enough witnesses to confirm it. And they will say, "This is why this was not on the board, it was not in the assembly; this committee did not vote." Because, watch out, decisions, of course, vote mostly on committees, as well as here at the assembly session. So there had to be a whole series of provisions protecting the opposition, whether the opposition was numerous or small. That's what you insisted on here. I rejected the proposal that existed today, to enable committees to make it possible for representatives of the ruling coalition (whoever they are), and someone has misinformed it here, says - the government falls, this assembly is disbanding. What does the government have to do with the collapse and disbanding the Assembly? It doesn't matter. We often fool ourselves, but some of the things that we used to fool around on this proposal won't work anymore. You remember that someone here was fooling around two months ago, going out and saying, "Why doesn't the president put in the middle of this session to discuss the government's trust?" That's not possible, because the Rules of Procedure prevented it. He never predicted a way to interrupt the session or put something into the sitting. Now, I have promised this publicly, and I have promised the MP who asked that – a proposal that is clearly said that, during the regular session, something can be inserted, because during the extraordinary president does not decide on the agenda. There should be a complete ignorance about the work you're doing, so let's say why the president didn't put something on the agenda in an emergency session. He doesn't put the information on the agenda in an emergency session. He doesn't have any options. Either 84 MPs schedule the agenda or the government. The president's just setting a date. In this regular session, a new proposal can immediately discuss something, whatever session is under way, not just a matter of trust between the Minister and the Government, but everything that we have shared, on the basis of a meeting of the heads of all parliamentary groups to say, someone with evidence being accused of corruption, and he was elected to be a function elected by the Assembly. Then We sought a way, so let's keep our mouths shut, past the Rules of Procedure, to schedule a five-minute session. There's no need now. The new proposal allowed to resolve this immediately. A whole series of things, which were pointed out in the previous period, are now listed here in this proposal. I'm sure it's not everything. I am convinced that the moment the Assembly votes this proposal, if it accepts that MPs are working for the same money more and it becomes clear to the citizens who are working and who is talking about work, then we will come into a situation and we will certainly find different shortcomings during the course. No matter how much this proposal was created, everyone I could come to, as far as this is concerned, as well as all the comparative experiences, and here the proposals are exactly the way they are done in the Hungarian, French, German parliament, will still show a whole series of shortcomings, and then we will deal with it in agreement – us or the next call. Because, as someone said, this won't take long, just until October. And since October, a regular session begins, so I understand. So, it won't take long for an extraordinary session, it will start regularly, and it will be possible for all what is an objection to the Rules of Procedure to be put on the agenda by the President in agreement with you and that all of that, of course, will be corrected. I don't expect any other way to approach this job. I would once again ask for understanding, all vice presidents who are doing their job responsibly, because this proposal of the Rules of Procedure is the most restrictive towards the chairman. So he definitely has to be here every morning at 10.00 and he won't be able to get up until 6:00 at least, except for that hour break. It will always be seen, immediately from the first day, by all citizens, unlike MPs who may have to wait in the first period, and only then at a pay phone to testify that someone did not show up because there is no direct transfer of the board. As we found out, someone didn't show up on the board and thus prevented the vote, stalled, didn't want to work in the Assembly, but went (as it was picturesque) from coffee shops to cafes. I hope that doesn't happen. Once again, I call on all MPs, I cannot share in the position and opposition, I cannot call for responsibility and irresponsibility, because everyone chooses their own political message – to vote in favour of this proposal. I am notifying, since there is no debate in particular, because this is the draft rules of procedure, so the debate is in principle only, and we were informed at the beginning of the session by the chairman, that the amendments of Mr. Milajic, Mr. Angelkovic, Mr. Obradovic, were adopted. In doing so, we found that some amendments by Mr Markovic were adopted in the meantime, which are even more severe by the executive authority. Mr Markovic suggested that the meeting be scheduled, that is, this public session with ministers, be held for 60 days, but the promoter accepted it for 30 days. So, in fact, that proposal was adopted. All those amendments were adopted which went to new precise solutions in the spirit in which the amendments of the Rules of Procedure were proposed, and that spirit, first of all, is not first – efficiency, but first – to allow MPs, who voted, to affect decisions, to really influence, and of course to reduce the possibility that only, without the possibility of influence on decisions, people would take pictures in front of cameras, which I hope, will not be a basic wish. I call upon everyone to vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure. I remind you once again, all the provisions which are good in it, for them are those who helped to make them; for all the bad things, and for those who show themselves to be evil, I am the one who deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16227	Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search. After a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision, in particular, and in general in the day to vote. ( The National MP Zivadin Lekic seeks word after the conclusion of a single search. I've concluded the search. You can't go through the Rules of Procedure after the search has been concluded to look for a word. (Zivadin Lekic: Intruder: We are not equal. We are equal, and that is why I am telling you, when all MPs apply, you too must apply. You sign up before or during the debate. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE REQUIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, APPLICABLE TO ARTICLE 84, ARTICLE 1. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on Government at the Third Session of the First Regular Session in 2005 on 23 May 2005. You have received a request from the President of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly, acting in accordance with Article 84(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the Law on Government; the text of the Law on Government and the opinion of the Government of Serbia on that request by the President of the Republic of Serbia. In its request, the President of the Republic stated that the provisions of Article 6. The Government Act is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that, in accordance with the power laid down in Article 84(1), it is in accordance with Article 1. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has decided not to sign an order on its declaration, namely to refer the law to the National Assembly for a re-election. I remind you he's a member of 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides that the President of the Republic declares the law within seven days of its adoption in the National Assembly. In that time, the President of the Republic may request that the National Assembly vote again on the law. Also, Article 180(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are laid down that if the President of the Republic set out in the Constitution requires the National Assembly to vote again on the law, the President of the National Assembly shall immediately deliver the request to the Members of Parliament and put the law on the agenda of the next session of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly, in accordance with the above provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, will again vote on the Government Act in the voting day. According to the Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16228	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to point to a member of the 100th Sublaw Act. So, when the SRS decided on the Government Act, as well as on all other legal projects in the National Assembly proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it voted "against" for clear reasons. We are the opposition political party, and today, that is, in the day of the vote, the MPs of the SRS will not attend the vote on the Government Law. But I want to explain our position, because we have looked closely and thoroughly at and examined all the objections of the President of the Republic and what it is that he resents, speaking of Article 6 of the proposed law, in which Serbian radicals also had numerous objections, first of all to the title, that it should not be used in such a way, because it may sound like abuse. We wanted to point to the next case. Regardless of our opposition to the law, the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, as he returns from Strasbourg on Friday, depending on when you set a day for the vote, will vote against the will of the President of the Republic, or whoever represents the parliamentary group. And why is that? Not because we are pushing the President of the Republic, or because we want to force you to do so, so we will not vote at all for this law – but because we think that these standards exist in a similar or almost identical form both in the Law on Local Self-Government and in the Law on State Administration. So we already have two laws where such norms exist. Why didn't the President of the Republic ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of these acts, if that was the case? There's another reason why we're in charge of the SRS to convict this case. It's an incredible campaign, a hack and a harangus run by the Separatist leadership of Vojvodina, and it's something that simply indicates that they don't mind, because it is or is not in accordance with the Constitution. It bothers us too that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, but we already have such norms in the laws on state administration and local self-government. They have a problem with it because of some other things, because of the ingenuity of the government. So they want to take as much as possible, the state authorities in their own hands and try to make a state out of Vojvodina. It's something the SRS is against, and that's why we're going to plead in such a strange, unique way with regard to the Government Act. We in the SRS are saying this precisely for the protection of parliament. Because when you have a conflict between the legislative and executive authorities, and today in Serbia we have a bi-cepical executive power, so the Serbian government on the one hand, the president of Serbia on the other hand, but in the system of power-sharing, in the system of national representation, the National Assembly, especially in view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has the most significant, dominant place. Not an individual, not even a collegiate body like the Government, or that we have a collegiate other bicepal executive body, that it is, for example, a collective representation, that degrades the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unless it is clear, accurate both on the Constitution and on what grounds. We're afraid it wasn't a case here, but it was an attempt to score political points, a lesson in political marketing or to show some kind of power. The President of the Republic has the right to a suspension veto, and if it is re-admissioned, he has the obligation to sign it, whether or not he wanted to, and by a suspension veto, the President of the Republic tells the public and citizens of Serbia that he and his team are assessing that a certain legal act is contrary to the country's highest legal act. But afterwards, it must be agreed if parliament does so. It's done on very rare occasions. He expressed his political position in public through his parliamentary group – in television debates, news interviews and so on. But this institute is used very rarely, and it must be very strong reasons, because otherwise, we are always and always will be on the side of parliament, for the simple reason that such arbitrary behaviour of executive authorities, individuals, and even collegiate ones - cannot be allowed at any time. That is why Serbian radicals will act in such a way that all MPs will leave the Assembly when voting on the Law on Government, because we do not want to participate again, and we were against that law. So it is clear that we disagree with its content, but this is how we will express the protest both because of the behaviour and relations of the President of the Republic towards the Serbian Parliament. The Serbian parliament is the most legislative body, in this country, the highest body in the system of power-sharing and it must be respected. That is why we insisted that you not adopt this draft decision on the Rules of Procedure, because the most important thing is to take care of and take care of the citizens of Serbia and their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16229	Thank you. I figured it was a business thing. Here you go, Mr. Petrovic. I suppose it's the same in the Rules of Procedure. I just got involved in a session and I realized that this was in the Rules of Procedure, because there's no debate. Here you go. Replication to Mr. Vukic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16230	Since Mr. Vukic said at one point that the President of the Republic can express his views through the DS Parliament Club, and I am the head of the DS Parliament Club, I believe, Mr. President, that I have a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16231	So I wasn't there, but what you were quoting is a basis for replication. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich. Please, three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16232	The president of the Republic is mandated to exercise constitutional powers established in the country's highest legal act by winning the presidential elections and by making a decision for Serbian citizens to become Serbian President Boris Tadic. The President of the Republic is not bound by his assessment that this Assembly has violated the Constitution and is not the basis for the application of the suspension veto, which was given by the Constitution to the President of the Republic, exclusively the finding or existence of a probability or belief, or whatever, that the Assembly has violated the Constitution by its law. True, in his letter, by returning this law to the Assembly, the President of the Republic told the law that it believes that the provisions of the Constitution, which determine the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces and local self-government, are contrary to this law and that giving authority to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put aside the decision of municipalities, cities and autonomous provinces - is not in line with the Constitution. The President of the Republic has the right to restore the law even when he thinks he's bad, that he is opposed to the interests of the state and the citizens. The deep conviction of the DS parliamentary club, which apparently is shared by the President of the Republic, is that the process of decentralisation is one of the most important elements of the establishment of a modern civilised democratic society. When there is a political momentum that society is decentralised, then certainly the executive power should not have such broad powers and should discreetly assess whether certain acts by local units are constitutional, legal or not. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16233	Thank you. Since there is no debate, the Assembly, of course, will, you're right, the Assembly that is above all these parts of the executive government, will decide, you're absolutely right. Therefore, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 81(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby appoint 22 June 2005, immediately, as a voting day. Since at the beginning of this session we had no voting quorum and for the adoption of the minutes, please, we are going first to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions, because we said that we would move on to the adoption of the minutes in the voting day, which is now, before the start of the vote itself. They were delivered to you: - the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 31 March, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 25 and 26 April, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 23 May 2005, - the minutes of the 4th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 24 May 2005, - the minutes of the session of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 30 May 2005, the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia in 2005, held on 30 and 31 May, 1 and 2 June 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of Parliament has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 31 March, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 25 and 26 April, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 23 May 2005. For 129, they did not vote 62 out of 191 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 3rd session of the First regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 17, 21, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, 31 March, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 25 and 26 April, 10, 11, 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 23 May 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the 4th session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 24 May 2005. For 128, against two, abstentioned one, they did not vote 74 out of 205 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 24 May 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth edition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's 2005 session, held on 30 May 2005. For 129, against two, did not vote 76, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 4th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 30 May 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 30 and 31 May, 1st and 2nd June 2005. For 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 79, out of 207 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 30 and 31 May, 1st and 2nd June 2005. We move on to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION TO STOP THE FUNCTION OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA After the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 174. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly decides on the election, i.e. the resolution or termination of the office of each Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia individually, by a secret vote, unless it decides to make the vote public. I propose that the motion for a decision to suspend the position of the Serbian Constitutional Court judge be decided by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 128, they did not vote 84 out of 212 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to decide on a motion for a decision to suspend the position of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia by a public vote - using an electronic voting system. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to suspend the office of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. For 129, they did not vote 84 out of 213 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the position of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the People's Community of the Republic of Serbia As the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MPs Zarko Obradović and Zoran Angelković, at a session of the Administrative Committee, withdrew the amendments they have submitted together to Article 9. It's a motion for a decision. I find that an integral part of the proposal for a decision has become the amendment of the People's MPs: Predraga Markovic to members 4 and 11, an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 11a, 15th and an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of 25a; Vojislav Milajic to Article 9; Zarko Obradovic and Zoran Angelkovic to Articles 10, 16, 18, with correction and 26. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee that all amendments are legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 124, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 2nd Amendment was submitted by the MP, Ms Radet. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote four, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 124, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, v 107, abstentioned 18, did not vote 7, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 123, two abstentions, 9 did not vote, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 119, a abstentioned one, did not vote 10, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, the Administrative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 83, against 121, two abstentions, were not voted 10 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 124, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 7, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 122, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 91, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 5, of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 89, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 88, against 124, a abstentioned one, they did not vote four, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 87, against 123, a abstentioned one, did not vote 6, out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Gordana Comic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 27a be added after article 27a. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 23, against 116, abstentioned 64, it did not vote 13, out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 86, against 119, a abstentioned one, had not voted 11 out of 217 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Faith of Radet. The proposer did not accept this amendment, and the Administrative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 85, against 121, a abstentioned one, did not vote 9 out of 216 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I would like to put to the vote a motion for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in general. For 127, against 65, he did not vote 25 out of 217 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by a convincing majority a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – THE REQUIREMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA TO THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA, Article 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, re-voting on the Law on Government I place on the re-election of the Law on Government, on the request of the President of the Republic of Serbia that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, acting in accordance with Article 84(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, again votes on the law. I'm putting on a re-election of the Government Act. For 120, against 25, he did not vote one out of 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has re-voted the Government Act. We move on to the decision of the National Assembly on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, to which MPs pointed during the session. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 96(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Milan Markovic, at a session on 21 June 2005, at 13.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 157. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 123, eight of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandar Vukic, at a session on 21 June 2005, at 13,48 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 157. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 122, nine of the 131 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Krasic, at a session on 21 June 2005, at 13.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 156 and with regard to Article 133. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 122, there was no vote of 8 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 21 June 2005, at 13.55 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 10 out of 130 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 21 June 2005, at 15.50 hours, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 123, abstention one, not four, of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda and decision on them, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I am concluding the session of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you. (The session is closed at 17.45 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16234	The seventh extraordinary session of June 22, 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 17.45 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-22-0.u16235	We move to the work of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, called for on 22 June 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 202 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 124 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic and Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. In accordance with Article 80(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda as soon as possible, which, in its request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Seventh Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, at this session set up by the Serbian government, you have 45 legislative proposals ahead of you. Dn e v n i r e d : 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Prosecutor's Law, 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Court Taxes, 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Prevention of Organized Crime, 6. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the War Crimes Procedure, 7. A bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to combat high-tech crime, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on higher education (retired point), 9. Proposal for a deposit insurance law, 10. Proposal for a Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency, 11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, 12. Proposal for a law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, 13. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, 14. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, 15. Proposal for a law amending the Guarantee Fund Act, 16. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act, 17. Proposal for a public debt law, 18. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the responsibility of JP "Electroprivreda Srbija" to the German financial organisation KFW, 19. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro after the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Railway Reconstruction Project, 20. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the government's loan to the Republic of Poland to finance Serbia's electro-priority recovery project, 21. Proposal for a Law on Counterguarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Community to reconcile the outstanding and unpaid contractual obligations to the European Investment Bank, 22. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Emergency Traffic Rehabilitation Project, 23. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the restoration of roads in the Republic of Serbia, 24. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the B-Serbia-Montenegro European Roads Project, 25. Proposal for a law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro on the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Future Modernisation and improvement of the air traffic management system), 26. Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Programme of the reconstruction of the municipality infrastructure of the municipality of Subotica), 27. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the granting of counterguarantee to the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro following the loan of the European Investment Bank to finance the Energy System Management Project, 28. Proposal for a Law on the restructuring of the NFA and TDFA debt by issuing bonds of the Republic of Serbia, 29. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, 30. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, 31. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, 32. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, 33. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, 34. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, 35. Proposal for a law on the issue of an extra stamp, 36. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in road transport, 37. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition (retired), 38. Proposal for a law on advertising (revealed), 39. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, 40. Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens (retired), 41. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Publishing Law on Moving Things entered in the Register, 42. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Registration of Business Entities, 43. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Information Act, 44. Proposal for a State Administration Act (revealed), 45. Proposal for a law on civil servants (retired). National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 86 and 136. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a common principle search be carried out on related points. The first group consists of: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Prosecution, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judicial Taxes, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to combat organised crime, - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in the Procedure for War Crimes, - Proposal for a Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities to Combat High Technical Crime (points 1 to 7 of the Agenda). Second group: - Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance, - Proposal for a Law on Deposit Insurance Agency, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, - Proposal for a Law on Banks and Liquidation of Banks and Insurance Companies, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations, - Proposal for a Law on the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, - Proposal for a Law amending the Guarantee Fund Act, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Financial Lising Act (points 9 to 16 of the Agenda). Third group of points: - Proposal for a Law on Public Debt, - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the responsibility of the JP "Electroprivred Serbia" to the German financial organisation KFW, - Proposal for a law on the granting of counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro under the loan of the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank of Serbia to the Bank of Serbia, - Proposal for a law on the granting of the counter-guarantee of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro to the Republic of Serbia by credit of the Republic of Serbia to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia, - Proposal for a law on the granting of Serbia and Montenegro to the loan of the European Investment Bank for the settlement of the completed by the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia (the Republic of Serbia).). The fourth group, the joint principled search on the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Code, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to the Law on Obligor Social Insurance, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, - Proposal for a Law on the issue of an Additional Postal Mark (paragraphs 29 to 35 of the Agenda). Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, against two, one of the 129 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since it is proposed that a number of draft laws in the agenda be considered by emergency procedure (points 16, 25, 26, 27, 31, 32, 34, 44 and 45).), the committees responsible, if they have not already done so, will submit reports during the session. We will not now move to the agenda, not just because it is 17.50 hours, but because it is necessary that all MPs get to know in detail the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which, as you know, will take effect on tomorrow. For this reason, under Article 84(2). The Rules of Procedure, due to the importance of the laws that are on the agenda and the need for everyone to be familiar with the Rules of Procedure, continues at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
