ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21597	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is one of the system laws, and as it has begun, we will need to apply this law more and more. That's why the MPs of the SRS have made so many amendments, you've seen it's a whole notebook, that the law improves to the point where it's acceptable and applicable. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1, where I request that the member be changed and read: "This law establishes jobs, powers, responsibilities, police organisations and the position of police officers of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. Police are doing police work based on both the Constitution and the law. Police can temporarily restrict individual rights and freedoms of citizens only in cases prescribed by the Constitution and law. The police and their officers bear full responsibility for the violation of the Constitution and the law in their work. The Republic of Serbia is responsible for material and immaterial damage done by police and its officials to third parties by illegal or irregular work." With this amendment, I have tried in the right way to define police affairs, organisation and authority, the working-legal position of the police officers of the MUP, and, firstly, as a basic principle, the provision of police work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as well as the responsibility for compensation done by third-party police officers to illegal or irregular work. To see the difference, I will read the sections of Article 1 of the bill, in particular the second position, which says: "Police performs the law of established police and other affairs (which other police do, if they are not police; if they are already done by the police, why are these other jobs, rather than transactions prescribed in police affairs), providing support for the rule of law in a democratic society... "Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it does not become a democratic society by writing -- we are from now on a democratic society. I don't want to remind you of that boy's drawing, when he drew something and wrote it, this is a horse. Society is democratic or not democratic, depending on how much it respects, above all, human rights in society itself. So I'm asking you, who gave you the certificate that you're a democratic society. If there are no certificates, then society is undemocratic, then the police can do whatever they want. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the certificate of democracy, democratic society, the democracy of society, give voters in the elections. Soon you will see who Serbian citizens will choose to be democratically led -- both society and state -- in Europe. I suggest that the Minister now adopt this amendment. If he does not, I suggest that the ruling coalition MPs press that green button in the voting day, which you agree the amendment is being adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21598	Thank you. The word has a police minister, Mr. Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21599	Usually the first members of the law talk about the essence of the law. Most of the provisions that are later derivated from that first member who is somehow a provision, not to say the preamble of the law. This amendment of yours actually derivates the concept that we put in Article 1, which is the concept of public security. You mention - a citizen, however, protection is provided to all those on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The other thing is that the police are doing police work based on the Constitution and the law. That's what it stands for. However, there is something called the Constitutional Charter. There is something called ratified international contracts, which commit and have power and primate over domestic law. So these are all the things that are covered in our first article. As far as the damages are concerned, I must say that in Article 166 of the law, there is a fully rounded norm, which even has its own peripherality, which is that responsibility for the damage done to third parties, where it is taxed when, if a police officer disagrees with the regulations of police authority, the MUP will bear the compensation to third parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21600	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21601	Mr. Minister, if not in the first position of Article 1, then at least in the second position, you have to point out that the police are doing business on the basis of both the Constitution and the law. You have it in the third paragraph. You don't need this "democratic" thing. It's not a democratic state if you write in police law, as you said, a government in a democratic society. As far as I know, the police have to do their jobs to enforce coercion, force. I'm curious about how it beats the police democratically. Is there a thing - with a pendreka, so that it can be non-democratic, and this is another democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21602	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS finds it necessary to define this member in a more precise way, i.e. to comply with the norms of Generalis Legis, which is the Constitution, and this is lex specialis, this is the law of police. As such, it is applied by the authority of the administration. The police are the authority of the administration. In the proposed Article 1, you say the right of citizens can be restricted. The SRS says yes, but only extraordinary. That's the most sensitive question. Limit citizens' rights - we can only exceptionally allow that to happen. It's an exception, and it can't be a rule. For the purposes of Article 1, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The bill says: "In providing protection, the police may limit individual rights and freedoms only under conditions and in a manner established by the Constitution and law. "Yes, but I am stressing it out again. What Mr. Markovic said, in the first article mentioned -- in a democratic society, it is too high in this law. We now declare ourselves that we have become a democratic society since October 5th? What are we going to say, were we a democratic society when 12,000 people were allowed to be arrested and freed and that the arrested had no right to see either father, mother, brother, sister, or child, or to be visited by a lawyer? What are the rights in this democratic society, and October 5th said, we are entering the era of a new democratic society? What happened? It is not recorded in Europe, nor is it seen on the globe that in such a short time, by the authority of the administration, 12,000 people were arrested by an illegal body. The proposal is well known to the results of 12,000 arrested citizens. What's the result? The result is zero. Basic human rights have been violated. We think if there's a limit, it's just an exception. Secondly, we believe that in the first article it should be pointed out in particular that the police and their officers bear full responsibility for the violation of the Constitution and the law in their work. Is that too high? It's not. This is a preventive warning to those who apply powers. Furthermore, in paragraph 4, we propose that there must also be a special emphasis on the right to compensation. I just spoke and said that 12,000 people were arrested, and there is no telling if the damage was compensated to those citizens who were illegally arrested. This is why the SRS particularly points out in the first provisions and norms of this bill, to make it known to everyone well, including those who take these measures: if damage is done, it must be compensated. I agree with the Minister when he says it's provided for in Article 166. Yes, but many provisions on rights, measures, the protection of human rights, the organisation, extend into several members of this bill. This is not excessive, this proposed norm is quite precise, comprehensive and properly improves the text of the law. On the other hand, in parallel law, in a country I would not like to mention, where certain provisions were taken from, it is not as defined in the proposal for this law. The fact is that in Article 1 paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The bill mentions that other regulated transactions are being carried out in addition to police work. This is done both in the government and in other ministries, but the text of the law is not particularly burdened. The Office of the Internal Affairs Authority, i.e. Police have their own organisation, their own organisational units and division of businesses into authorized and unauthorized officials. Therefore, the SRS believes it would be necessary for this amendment to be accepted by the SRS because it improves the text of the law and rightly regulates this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21604	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21605	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, the MPs of the SRS, have amended Article 1 with their amendment, and I think that they have better written it, done better, without political assessments, and pointed out in a significant place the commitment of police work to the Constitution and the law, not only for the protection of human rights and freedoms, to those who could come under attack by police measures, but also because it is clear that police as the bearer of the measure of physical coercion, as something in which the state differs from all other forms of community, in which, among other things, it is different from society, is something that must be limited by the highest legal acts of this country. On the other hand, I don't understand why you need political qualifications in the law itself, especially in Article 1. When you say "in a democratic society," someone would really think that the police are now responsible for democratic society and should be responsible for democratic society, which is pretty funny, you'll agree. We can talk about it all you want. Are you telling me that the democratic society in which Dragoljub Milanovic was lynched? Mr. Minister, were the beatings, those bandits that lynched him outside the Serbian Television Building? Are these bandits caught or not? I didn't hear they were. These bandits are bragging about how smart they are and how they almost lynched someone, if I'm not mistaken. I'm afraid that's not a good message and that we don't live in a democratic society. Are those who persuaded children to cut their hair on Milovan Boyic's daughter because she was his daughter? Are these bandits caught or not, or is it a democratic society for you, when you fight and when you start, so it's democracy. If someone, God forbid, is going to stand up to you, even less than this "yellow" from the Democratic Party, then he has to grab it, and he's going to be punished for what he's got. Is that a democratic society? Is it a democratic society in which you are able to attack the leader of the largest party in Serbia, in the country, just because you don't know how else to deal with it, so you say he killed someone there. Who he killed when he killed-- well, you don't know. It takes a month, so I'm sued by the owner of the television, allegedly listening to his conversations with Natasha Kandic. I know they didn't have anything and I made that announcement. I wasn't listening, but I got information that they were talking and I'm never going to tell you from who. I want to go to jail for it, but he's got to go for spreading fake news, so we're going to the cell next to each other, sweetheart. He wouldn't last in a cell next door. That's the essence of what you're talking about here is democratic society. What democratic society? We're just waiting for what's gonna get us next, what's somebody gonna do next, where some Parliament is gonna burn down, some TV is gonna burn down, so it's gonna be the height of democratic change. Every day we listen to some unfortunate people who appear in our media and say: with great enthusiasm we have welcomed democratic change. Especially those democratic changes on the state of paintings of Pedja Milosavljevic, Uros Predic and all others in the Federal Assembly that are no more, only about 70 are missing, worth about a million euros is no longer. They democratically changed the description of the Federal Assembly. They democratically changed both the description and the Serbian Television. How many million euros have been invested in the restoration, renovation and reconstruction of television from the country's citizens' money to make it democratic? I'm just waiting for you to tell us how the lynching was democratic, how it took those bandits and the beatings to be rewarded. If you don't have the footage, Mr. Minister, I'll deliver the video, I've got the video, so you can see how brave those beatings are. I've been shooting on CNN, I've got a VCR, put in a tape, then press that red button and then record it, says the REC on that button. I recorded it after they boasted, as the height of democracy, of someone being lynched somewhere. 20 bandits were bought from 20 to 30 years old, very strong, very brave, beating a 60-year-old man, who lies, one single. Great courage, great democracy and great democratic change. One of the most common gangs. (President: Time.) It's time, Mr. Mihailovich, for these bandits to answer to justice, it's time for the batinans to respond, to show the state they want a democratic society. It doesn't have much to do with the police. The job of the police is to act in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The police have a hard job today in our country, and none of us are going to make it difficult for her to do that kind of work. There's as much crime as you want, you psychopaths as you want. You should be chasing some lunatic who deals drugs, hijacks cars, shoots everywhere, and there's no telling how many in this country. That's what this police and this country need to deal with. The police need to find out who they are dealing drugs today in Serbia, so the drugs are cheaper than they were at the time of the strongest force, as you say, the Zemun Clan. Why is cocaine cheaper on the black market today? Why is every kind of drug cheaper today? Because there's more to it than ever before. Who's involved in this and who's the one holding it? In what way can it and must it be prevented? It's a police job, not to be involved in politics and to tell us what a democratic society is and what a stani is. Because what you think is democratic is what we think is not democratic, and to convince us that the lynching of political opponents of democracy is never gonna happen. When those beatings and bandits who took part in this bring the face of justice, when you show that for you all on the political scene Serbia is the same and that all must be protected in the same way, then we will believe that you want a democratic society.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21606	The word has a police minister, Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21607	A careful reader would not miss the essence of this member, which is that nowhere is it determined that this is now or before a democratic society. This article determines what is the programme part and what should be pursued by every political party, whether it is in power or in opposition, which is a democratic society. You can put anything on, if it's not the essential behavior of political factors, then no norm can give you anything. Nothing in this article has ever been determined whether this applies to the present or to the past. This determines only the one and the kind of miles that should exist for the police to work in accordance with their powers. It's from this aspect called the interpretation of the law. As far as democracy is concerned, I am now speaking not as interior minister but as a politician, the government of Vojislav Kostunica is the first government since 1945 to introduce democracy in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21608	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21609	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all in this legal work, it is true that we have much more so-called in the bill itself. Declarative than congenital norms relating to non-existent time, etc. Standards of declaration that essentially mean nothing. Advocating that we have a democratic society that everyone can interpret in any way, there are no sanctions, absolutely nothing special. This is for us politicians to discuss, so we can talk about it. Otherwise, no one will ever fail to comply with Article 1 of Article 2 or there will be no agreement in society whether such a thing is done or not. On the other hand, I am not and are not SRS MPs from those who will always and at any cost criticise and attack because they think differently from the current government or because they would like to enter political conflicts at any cost. We're not the ones who are going to tear the country down for political points, nor are we thinking of that. I want to tell you that in the past term, in the DOS mandate until 2003, we heard that it was the first non-communist and democratic government, one or the other, and then we found that there were those who had so many Democrats in that government that they had shown their democracy first by taking two, three, five, ten and 15 million marks out of them, and then, later, the euro, so they probably filled their pockets, and then they started loading it into trucks, because their pockets were long-filled, and then they took shovels and they started putting that money in trucks. That must have been the essence and core of their great democracy. We in the SRS don't have that kind of pathological and ideological relationship to one, the other, the third or the fifth government. I can't say that this government is illegal, that it's undemocratic. She was legally elected, even when she was elected, she may have had some kind of legitimacy, very briefly, because for a month or two after she was formed, that kind of legitimacy has been lost, but since we have a multiparty system, since people have been given the right to choose, we can talk about a smaller or greater degree of democracy in our society. We can also say today that people have no right to their own choice until the end, because 10 days before the elections when the media, some, in the hottest campaign against Serbian radicals, and that you no longer know why, that they no longer know what to invent and what to do, because the biggest problem in the country is those who have nothing to do with power for five years. So not all those who have ruled for all these five years are the problem. The biggest problem is those who have nothing to do with the government. The biggest problem is because they know that the only serious changes in the system will come if they win, if the radicals win, because they've been spinning around for five years the same one, one of them being in the last term of the ministers, now the presidents of the Chamber of Commerce, one of the directors and the other directors, one of them being chairmans of the boards of directors, a little bit of rotation and becoming directors, and the directors became chairman of the boards, and it all comes to you. So the bottom line is that we can talk here forever that this is the only democratic government or not. There's a lot we could blame this government, but I'm always ready to say what's better. We have a normal atmosphere in the National Assembly. It's not normal that we can't discuss any of the ministers, which we've only been discussing about Vladan Batić since 2000, which is what you take off the agenda every time. It's not democracy. That's not to say autocratic behavior, but authoritarian behavior. Anyway, I can't say that it's the savagery we had in 2001 and 2002. In that sense, it is important to look at things from a time distance and enter some kind of lensism, which I would also wish for Minister Jocic to not only be his government good or best, and all the other worst on the globe of the Earth, although we will always politically determine ourselves bad about the governments in which we did not participate, and good about the governments in which we ourselves participated. There's both good and bad in everything. It's not all so black and white, it's shades of gray color and it's very important for Serbian citizens to see and that they can sense and notice the difference. I remind you, Mr. Minister, that we would be the democratic society of those bandits who lynched someone, just because they're political opponents, you have to catch them, because this will show that you respect the principle of legal certainty in this country, because you will show that no one can come tomorrow to you to lynch the moment you lose power. If you're going to go out there and say it, I didn't deserve it, and that's where he deserved it; no, nobody deserved it, because nobody deserved to get beat up, he deserved political responsibility. We've lost the election, we've given you power immediately, we haven't caused you any problems, we didn't want to participate in the government of the transitional period, we don't care about any governments. That's why no one deserves to get beat up and lose their heads. And not 20 donkeys, so between the ages of 20 and 30 to catch up with someone of 60, and they're very brave, they're very strong. They're very brave and they're very strong, but they can be so brave and strong until the moment the state shows that she doesn't care and that the state in some way supports it. A serious state sanctions such things, and I cited this example as a metaphor, as something that must never happen again in Serbia. Because today, when they say, so take everyone out on the street, do something; and we say, "What do you want, to burn down the Parliament, we won't do it; what do you want, to turn on the television, to beat someone; we won't do it because we want to live peacefully in Serbia." So we want to live in a normal country, where democratic rules of procedure have to be respected and where everyone will be able to deal with politics and at any time express their opinion, like it or not. That's what Serbian radicals stand for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21610	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21611	No one can beat us. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, please allow a few sentences on the subject that has been imposed here before I move on to the amendment. The SPS founding congress was held on 17 July 1990, and then a decision was made to discuss parliamentary elections at all levels in Serbia, which by character would be multilateral and where parties and citizens would participate, and these were the first democratic elections to take place, as you know, several months later. In 1968. The CK SKS established a list for the then-Republic of Serbia, and aside from that stand, the folk hero Sredoje Urosevic gave, as a citizen, a list against the CK and beat Stanoje Mandic in Cačka, so I could also call it a grain in the big cake we want to make, which is called democracy. What I am knows are those who sent me here, and for whom I speak here today, I am their people's messenger, I speak to you and them equally, with the same responsibility, though, with something greater emotion and greater fervor. Thank you for understanding. The law on police isn't a failed investment just for those who don't have a foundation, and I don't belong to them, and others don't count me as one. The law on police is important with multiple aspects. It's important for the state, for all citizens, for those behaviours that we call criminal, social, that usurp other people's rights, other people's property, which cause big problems. And when we talk about the police and its powers, we should always consider those who suffer damage because the police have insufficient authority or not effective enough, or not well-intentioned enough. There may be such police, and therefore it is our responsibility to create an appropriate legal tool, which I hope will be this law on police, which will define the police as acceptable for the largest number of citizens and, by their actions, ensure that citizens protect their rights, their property, their personal security and everything else that all the police in the world do. There are no silk police, and we shouldn't expect that from our own, but there are police officers acting in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The other day in the parliament of England with several votes of difference, and thanks to the laborers, it was not the police's authority to treat terrorists, terrorists may be denied legal protection for 90 days. So that's where it happens, even though it's been a lot of pressure. The SPS Defence and Security Council, in co-operation with known and recognised experts in this area, on behalf of the SPS, submitted 10 amendments to the proposed police law. The Committee on Defence and Security and the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted the amendment to Article 15, which is the one concerning the authority of the police to order evacuation, and the other amendments did not accept. Let me just say a few words about the amendment to Article 1. We have suggested that the police, as an organisational term, cannot define just the area of work, because such an impression can be obtained from the proposed law. Based on the analogy that exists in some other institutions, such as the military and the police, we tried to further argue this amendment. I understand, on both the Committee on Defence and Security and in the discussion at the MPs' club with the representatives of the MUP, that this is a slightly different concept than the concept that can be understood from the proposed law itself, and therefore I will not particularly insist on this amendment and on others, because I will report on two more amendments. I expect that by adopting this law, the police act more effectively, that citizens have a higher level of security. Let me finally tell a story that really happened in the city where I live, in Chačka, and it talks about the police, about nature, about some other bodies, and I want that when this law is passed, something like that doesn't happen anymore. A citizen named Chačka went to a jewelry store to assess a bracelet of about 30 grams, which is an old family heirloom, with the desire to sell it, to heal a seriously ill member of her immediate family. They didn't agree on the price, she went home, they sent someone from the jewelry store to follow her where she lived, and then the apartment was broken into. Two days later, the police found these people and sent a citizen to the jeweller to take over the item that was stolen from her, so I'm talking about the bracelet. When she went there, the people at the jewelry store said we're sorry, but we melted your bracelet, we can give you 100 euros, because that's what we paid the thieves. Now I'm putting an end to it. It takes five years of procedure for this woman to prove a thing so clear now to all of you here. Otherwise, the jeweler is being held by an ex-cop, he's long gone, but he is an ex, with the connections he had. This woman is completely in a situation where she can't exercise her elemental right, even though everyone there knows all about it. He knows the police, he knows the D.A.'s office, he knows the whole of Chachak, 30 grams of gold has more value, he's got family or something, I said what was the motive. We want the police to protect the citizens, not to protect the thieves, even if they're ex-cops who are thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21612	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment, with the correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The applicant's representative accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Defence and Security Committee has not accepted the amendment with the correction. The Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21613	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the G17 plus has submitted several amendments concerning improving the text of the law that we will vote for. This is about an amendment to Article 5, which determines the obligation of the police to inform the public about all activities, with restrictions on the interests of the investigation, when it comes to particularly confidential data. I think this is a very significant change and intervention in the text of the law, because it excludes the arbitration of police officers to decide themselves, without any legal restrictions, whether to inform or not. I believe that public notice on police work is very important and that so far it has not been largely represented, as much as after the adoption of this law, with the amendment we have proposed, should be. The government of Vojislav Kostunica, supported by G17 plus, has submitted several regulations that should allow for better public information on the work of state authorities and on that line is exactly the same amendment. Notifying our citizens is essential to the exercise of their rights. By better informing citizens there will be fewer violations of citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21614	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, the Prophet of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21615	I must briefly return to this amendment to Article 1 and to the normisation of a democratic society, that is, a provision that the police carry out the law of established affairs and provide support for the rule of law in a democratic society. You've heard from our colleagues, my colleagues from the SRS, how inappropriate this is. Just before, Minister, when you informed us here that the democratisation in society and the state was introduced by Vojislav Kostunica, you reminded us of that time from 2001, when it was a little bit sharper said by Cedomir Jovanovic here, but for Zoran Djindjic. It's not enough to say - I'm a Democrats, or to write in the name of the party a democratic definition, so it really is. You know, Boris Tadic thinks and says he's beautiful and that he's the president of all Serbian citizens, and we all know he's not even pretty and that the president is just his Democratic Party. When it comes to a member of the Bill of Police, I have carefully read this article, since you have just now, Minister, warned that a carefully reader sees something else from this Article 1. I'm a careful reader and an experienced, good and cautious lawyer, without false modesty. So I read Article 5, all the views of this member and the objection I have relating to Section 2. Article 5 speaks of information on police work. You say in the first position that police are objectively informing the public about their activities, not revealing confidential information, etc., and that's fine. That is the way it should be, but it is a controversial position 2 that says - police at the request of an individual, directly or through the means of public notification, informs of events and phenomena from their own work, which are of interest to the public, as well as the measures taken by them. We in the SRS think that this position must and should be deleted from this law, that is, Article 5. The bill is because it is inadmissible to provide in the law that police tell the public certain information before the proceedings are completed. It's just not good, it can't happen. When it comes to the affairs carried out by police members and taking certain acts under the law, under the Constitution, this information cannot be easily communicated to anyone or to the public, especially when we have in mind the Code of Criminal Procedure, which clearly speaks about the rights and obligations of police officers. We have often had the chance to distinguish the MUP's statement from the prosecution's statement, that this is different from the court's statement again, and then it's done, each one runs his own procedure, each one of his own investigations, and in the end it's "shake up, he's born a mouse". It must not be the work of the police and the work of the judicial authorities, in this case the work of the police as an investigative authority in this business, to be brought into question by the fact that one piece of information will be made public, so that, of course, such information can further affect the work of the prosecution, the work of the courts. I repeat, there have been many examples in practice. You only remember what was going on in that infamous "Sabbe" action when Beba Popovic was reporting data from the MUP, when he was in the role of a spokesman. You remember, and here's not to remember, but to remind you of what's going on with this unfortunate Sarajlic, they destroyed a man of police with a statement. Today it turns out, the man is neither guilty nor indemnity, and now the state is going to pay him some money. Which money can pay for life, health, career, family, everything that man has destroyed, and now the state will pay him some money. He was destroyed because Baby Popovic had thought to issue a statement on behalf of the MUP and it followed the man all the time, but eventually the judicial authorities were working according to the law and they couldn't judge on the basis of that statement alone. It was almost in this recent past, something similar happened to someone who was arrested, but I have no intention of raising anyone. It also ran out with a statement from the M.O.P., and then it turns out that none of that work was there. So there must be extreme caution, and in order to avoid any abuse, neglect, or negligence, then it is best not to predict it in the law. Also, I will remind you on January 2003, when Vojislav Seselj announced at a press conference that he was charged with the Hague indictment, that it was written in Belgrade, that it was written by Djindjic, Covic and Svilanovic. After the conference, Vojislav Seselj, the MUP issued a statement, signed by Dusan Mihajlovic, that Vojislav Seselj was harassing the public and that a criminal complaint would be filed against Vojislav Seselj. What happened? Of course, there were no criminal charges, but after about ten days and officially the Hague indictment, false, unsupported by evidence, etc. So it turns out that Vojislav Seselj was telling the truth, as Vojislav Seselj and all Serbian radicals always say, exclusively the truth. The statement by Dusan Mihajlovic, i.e. the MUP, was made public about 10-15 days between the information given by Vojislav Seselj that the indictment was brought against him and the day the indictment was made public. I could list examples by the end of the day and by tomorrow, probably, how many times a mistake has been made because the MUP issued a statement that, later on, there was no legal basis, and it's even worse when it happens that the MUP issued a statement, so that someone in the prosecution or in the court, say, maybe out of fear or because he wants to go there and talk to someone, let's say, because he found out that it's a statement from the MUP, it takes it to be his main point of doing business in the course of the investigation, in the course of the trial, etc. You know, I have information that you, too, Minister, have been thinking on the Committee on this amendment and I'm telling you it's not too late, accept this amendment, less will hurt your head, and any future minister. You can't keep under the control of every cop, every local police station, and anyone can issue a statement. The press are looking forward to the announcements, ever since they came from the MUP, you know they can't wait to be released, they're not checking it out, and while you're denying it, the train passed. You know that folk "two without a soul, one without a head". This can be applied to this member. Please, Minister, think again, you have time and opportunity, accept this amendment, and you will be easier to enforce the law, and you will do your job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21616	The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21617	I fully agree with MP Verica Radet that over-intentional information, i.e. information that represents a particular cacophony of information, can harm, especially the MUP, in general the judiciary, because it is something that can be discredited by people without a basis. When I took office, with what you said, I faced it. Simply, in the general flood of democracy and the desire for everyone to be a small body in their secretariat or OUP, there were conflicting statements coming out of the authority of a certain elder, so it was difficult to collect all of it. I didn't hesitate when it comes to your amendment, I already accepted it. You've essentially considered this matter well. However, there was one technical inability. We thought it was you who corrected it, however, you didn't. We agreed to delete this point 2, but it was a problem in point 4 and point 5, where attitude 2 is repeated as a number, so we asked if a legal-technical editorial could be carried out. Here, I adopted that amendment, it was just a problem. They said the correction didn't come. As far as the protection itself is concerned, I think we've met, we've had this thought in mind, so in Section 5 and Article 78, we've still given restrictions to protect abuses. If editorially possible, I say once again, we have not hesitated, we have accepted that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21618	It is not possible now, because the Legislative Committee cannot be maintained now. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21619	Ladies and gentlemen, here we are faced with a legal-technical obstacle, where the minister, accepting the amendment to the SRS, sees the unfounded existence of attitude 2 in this article. That is why attitude 1 clearly defines what information is and how it happens when it comes to police work. Informing or informing the public is a very important segment for police work. By deleting Article 5(2), nothing is lost and the technical correction can be carried out, that in paragraphs 4 and 5, where a call for paragraphs 2 and 3, instead of paragraphs 2 and 2 may be made, paragraph 1 or that number 2 may also be deleted. But it can be changed in Article 1, because Article 5, paragraph 1, rightly defined how the police inform the public about their activities, not revealing confidential information. Why is this important to accept? If this position remains 2, we will face certain problems. In the past, we have the best example of this. The very definition of an individual, in the earlier period, allowed individuals in the framework of the government to "abuse" their functions, and thus legal provisions. Namely, what was going on? Police over the past period, during the state of emergency and the Sabela action, provided information, imagine, to the head of the communications bureau. He's in some hierarchical system member of the government, but the interpreters are more precisely, he's an ordinary clerk who's been in a certain position, and his function has played a role or purpose to help the government itself. However, the individual took advantage of his function and misused the law and received information as an individual at the time from the MUP, or police. That information was politically manipulated, calculated with them, and they served him to deal with political insolents. You already recognize the name of that man, his nickname is Baby, and I hope he's already grown up. If not, here's a chance to legally reject him from what the baby is using. No baby, or anything like that, is going to abuse this law, by using this attitude 2, as defined, as an individual, to ask the police for information. It thus realistically creates an opportunity for itself to, by manipulating this information, simply conduct a political reckoning against political insinuators. We've seen how it can be devastating. We've seen what kind of problems the whole society faces in these situations. Pure political manipulation, based on information that an individual would receive or receive, is one of the reasons why the entire action "Sabbe" took place in an anti-constitutional and illegal manner. Why? Because one individual, possessing information, used this information as a warrant, not only for the police, or the MUP, but also for journalists, and thus most directly manipulated the public. To prevent this, root out, it is best to accept this amendment by the SRS, as did by the proposing representative, the minister, and the smallest problem is to make technical and legal corrections. The Legislative Committee can meet in a pause; it has been such a situation so far, where the legislator, accepting the amendment, has requested that legal and technical correction be implemented. So we can make corrections, adopt this amendment to the SRS, and thus act preventively and warn the most directly all those who have violated consciously the law in the past, as individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21620	Thank you. Having accepted such a legal-technical order, the Legislative Committee will meet on Monday. If the Legislative Committee accepts this, it will go to the vote, as a proposal from the government. Anyone else want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Please, very briefly, for the sake of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21621	In any case, it is good that Minister Jocic has drawn a conclusion and has come to a proper assessment, as a large system-based technique for public and confidential transactions carried out by the MUP would be broken down. This is an extremely important question. It's a good thing the amendment was accepted. If you have an operational process over one person, let me say a few sentences, that the service should put forth a number of efforts and engage a number of members of the service that should be engaged in a major project, where organized crime is at stake, what if a journalist comes in and says - please, your law on police says that you are objectively and timely informing citizens. The Minister of the Interior or the Chief of Staff says, yes, that's what the law says; here, I'll give you an operating file that weighs five or ten pounds, take what you need and what's interesting to you. What happens? The whole thing's going down. You remember the Supreme Court case, it was reported that one judge was being processed operationally, he told a close relative, a close relative told his friend, the whole thing broke, and the surgery wasn't just about him, it was about some other people. The Minister and the Ministry know that. Therefore, it is a very serious matter and should be arranged, as the minister has accepted, as Mr Mircic and Verica Radeta explained. There's no better solution. We will preserve the reputation of the service, prevent numerous abuses, and we will not allow the detection of operational processing and evidence to be used in criminal proceedings, and the publication of data should follow a judicial decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21622	The People's Messenger, Vukosav Tomašević, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21623	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to all of us who, professionally or through political action, are engaged in information, this member of the law has turned to attention. So, by the nature of my job, in this law of police, I've dealt most with this member. I felt the need to come out and say that the amendment was acceptable. I think Mr. Minister has expressed an envious degree of knowledge of matter, political sense and political maturity when he accepted this amendment. I think that's how we made the right decision. I want to take advantage of the minister's presence to point out the question that has, in some way, been dragged through this article, through the provisions in paragraph 1, where it is said that the minister is giving instructions, and through the current position 4, where he says that the information is provided by the head of the competent police administration or by another person who is the minister for that authority. It seems to me that the years or decades of practice on this plan has not been good. It is true that there is a variant here, which we were just talking about, that sometimes some hasty announcement, when a delicate situation or a delicate personality is at stake, can cause some public damage, but there is something that seems to me, in practice, to be at the expense of the public, the media, when it comes to something that is classical crime or classical police processing, in terms of authority, who gives information to the media and who can convey information to the media? For example, I am close to the border with Montenegro, often to seize a significant amount of drugs; it is quickly heard. But within the Ministry of Information, it can't give the local chief, it can't give the one in Uzic, so it goes to the level of the ministry, etc., then it goes two or three days until the citizens get information about something that's clear, crystal clear. On this side, since it will follow the development of this member of the law through the practice of the internal hierarchy and the accompanying act in the Ministry, I urge Mr. Minister to show the same degree of feeling for this matter, which has shown by accepting this amendment, that this, through the internal structure of the police, work in such a way as to protect, on the one hand, and I will help as much as I can to help, what is the secretion of the service, to protect the delicateness of matter, but that, at the same time, through the need of authority to provide information on certain subjects from the work of the police, the procedure and the time, or period in which journalists can receive quality information from the competent police authority, particularly the local police officer. I think it's the police's interest. Then it will reduce the possibility of someone misinformed in public or in the media manipulating information in the absence of real, valid and quality official information, from the official level -- from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21624	Anyone else want a word? The word has the chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21625	The Committee, considering the SRS amendment to paragraph 2, had in mind what the colleague had said. However, the legal solution provided for here rightly defines and clearly defines the powers of individual officials, i.e. what authority and responsibility the minister carries. In fact, the vast experience of the previous period was used when the powers of a minister who can pass on to his associates were defined. We all know that on the Committee on Defence and Security, and the public was informed, we discussed who was making statements on behalf of the Ministry during the state of emergency. Why? Because he himself was the former minister of drawback fog - Mihajlovic, said he had nothing to do with those statements, even the interior ministry. The statements were in the sense that Vojislav Seselj led the organisation and as chief instigator took part in the murder of Zoran Djindjic and that Ulemek and the other killers worked for the interest of the former regime - the most difficult accusations anyone could make. The signature of that press release included the interior ministry. The matter was not clearly defined, and it was not worth it to us that we repeatedly asked for this information to be confirmed, i.e. information provided by the former minister to be confirmed or denied. This is clearly defined. When it comes to such operational matters as the colleague is talking about, there is clear authority by the minister that such situations, as the local elders come forward, provide sufficient explanations and information. The fact is, except for the authority, the minister has a responsibility. We couldn't ask the minister for responsibilities before, because no law had defined it. It was defined by those famous regulations that authorized the communications bureau. Why we quote this communications bureau -- it's a personification of the former regime, it's the nature and essence of the government and the way in which the former regime is ruled. If not legally defined, then an alternative was sought, and as an alternative was sought, through the bureaus. The minister has authority, but we can't ask him for any responsibility. The law states in this article precisely that the minister, passing on his powers, is therefore bearing responsibility. And for all information, no matter what nature, what character, and at what level, the minister, or through the Minister and Government, answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21626	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer's representative and the Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is true what is said at the very beginning that usually the first members of the law can fairly well tell us what was wanted by this law, how everything will continue to develop and what, above all, are formal or informal groups that should be satisfied with a certain law. I'd like to say a few more words before. Even in Article 1 of this law, as well as in Article 6, to which I have submitted an amendment before the SRS parliamentary group, it is evident that there is a lot of inaccuracies and that it is trying to establish a certain situation. That is how Article 1 practically says that police are carrying out a law of established police and other affairs, to support the rule of law in a democratic society. What if this society isn't democratic? Then will the police stay with us without a job? Who is it that assesses whether our society is democratic or not, and is this something that should be regulated by police law? Secondly, how does this support the rule of law? Can the right rule in a state independent of the police? In order for the rule of law to exist, it is necessary, and that is one of the basic conditions, that the police, in full scope, fulfil all their duties and at no time abuse their authority. Then we shall have the rule of law. So, the condition for the rule of law is to fulfil police duties. Article 6 regulates who and how will the police cooperate? In my opinion and in the SRS' opinion, it was set completely wrong and far too wide. Three bets were made, although there was no need for that. Article 6(1) states: "Police are co-operating with authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government to take action" etc. Where are your state organs? The first and basic thing you forgot - the police are co-operating with state authorities, authorities of territorial self-government, local self-government, etc. I will now read the definition proposed by the SRS. It is proposed that Article 6 be amended and read: "In performing police affairs, police are co-operating with state authorities, authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, other institutions and citizens, in accordance with the Constitution, law and other regulations." So, it's much shorter than you set out in the bill, much more concise, more precise, and in this one sentence it's practically all said, and neither does Natasha Kandic. The second position of this member is dedicated to Natasa Kandic and similar, and says: "The police are working together with other authorities and institutions (although there are no authorities to be co-operated with, it is an obvious failure, because first it was meant to stand "with state authorities", NGOs and other organisations, minority and other organised groups and self-organised individuals... "Please, what are self-organized individuals, and what does the word self-organized individual even mean? What if he's an unorganized individual, will the police cooperate with him and who estimates who's self-organized and who's disorganized? Furthermore, minority groups -- each group is a minority group. You didn't say anything about this when you said "a minority group." That absolutely doesn't mean anything. Paragraph 3 reads: "Police are co-operating in accordance with the law, the second regulation and according to the professional guidelines given by the minister". What happens if those guidelines aren't professional? Do you think that the guidelines given tomorrow by Minister Jocic, or by another, probably from the SRS, will be professional only because you have set it by this law? Who is it that will assess whether these guidelines are professional and what will happen if one of the members of the police says - this guideline, in my opinion, is not professional and I absolutely do not want to act on it. So, I think this attitude, the member and this definition primarily went hand in hand to Natasa Kandic and the like, in order to form a legal basis, as you say, "to develop a partnership in preventing or detecting the delicacies and their actions and achieving other security objectives. "It is not a police job to develop a partnership with NGOs, nor should police depend on NGOs or any other minority group. The police are also established, and they work and pay precisely for being able to carry out all these jobs on their own. Whether you'll ever have help from this organization or that organisation, it doesn't matter, but what it is is that, if you accept the definition proposed by the SRS, you have a broad enough formula for the police to cooperate with whoever they want uninterruptedly, but you won't have any obligation of day based on the position of the 2nd member to make a partnership in solving any crimes with NGOs. Does this mean that tomorrow someone from the NGO will have the right to demand that there be one member of the NGO in each patrol car, in order to fully achieve this partnership? The definition proposed by the SRS is definitely much more precise, much better than a legal solution, more comprehensively and I think there are absolutely no obstacles to this amendment being accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21628	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the very importance of the work of the Ministry of the Interior doesn't have to be explained much, I think it's well known to every citizen and even to underage children. The importance of this ministry is great. As a man who had been a member of Serbia's special units for many years, even as deputy minister of education, I went voluntarily in 1999 and I was involved in the war, so from 1981 to 2000 I had contact with these authorities and noticed many failures. Namely, the judiciary and police are the mirrors of a country, the very structure and the legal protection of citizens. If there's corruption and bribes there, it's the hardest and the worst evil that affects all citizens, not to talk any further about health, education, etc. The work of the police should be seen in order, above all, that the very structure of expertise is at the level, that it meets the needs of current time and society. We know that there are a lot of people in the police who came here overnight and through relationships, we have an example that he ended up with a waiter, and he became a cop, or any other direction, which reflects on the very work of the police and the use of their powers. I will refer to the work of police in national mixed environments, since I am from Novi Pazar and I have experience in this matter, where, for example, a crime or excess that happens reflects and interprets very differently than in the environments where the one-national composition of the population is. It's not the same thing if there's an excess in the New Market games, so the police want to react, they won't react, either in Subotica, or for example. in Belgrade and the King. We've had cases in Novi Pazar with some fanatical fans cheering against their country and causing excesses, simply with some kind of tolerance to cover it up and move on. We are aware of the cover-up of the problems in Kosovo and Metohija, until we are told that they are all small children and we have seen what happened. Unfortunately, I would not like that to happen in other environments, and so I urge the minister of police to pay extreme attention to multinational environments, to have people trained there professionals, who, regardless of religious, national and political membership, do their job and protect citizens. We have a case close to Novi Pazar, a monster murder of the Mutavdzic family, which happened three months ago. Unfortunately, the investigation of the tap in place and to this day we have not received any information, nor notice of what happened to a peaceful couple being killed and simply cut up on the magistrate's way. It puts a lot of pressure on the citizens. Some criticise these, others say they did it, others say they did it. I don't think there should be any cover-up. We have a special case from a few days ago, when the deputy district attorney's car was set on fire, and so he burned down another bar and another car. Again, it is a personal attack, and it is normal for citizens in these national mixed environments to experience it quite differently and interpret it. I ask Minister Jocic to make every effort to bring all these cases to light. Not to speak now of rocking the houses of the Serbians, harassing the priests of the monastery. It is simply that not only NGOs are serving in our country, but many citizens who are foreign citizens do so. Some of them wear beards, we don't know what those beards are like now. Others are beardless, with some special hats, and they don't know Serbian. The question is, where are these citizens, who are in the protection of these citizens, whether it is a religious institution or anyone, the identity of all citizens in the state of Serbia must be revealed. Otherwise, the worst thing can happen, and a spark in such environments can cost us dearly. I've noticed in my long-standing work, right down to the police battlefield, which means one corrupt cop. We say NGOs armed the Shipars in Kosovo, but that gun truck had to go through a checkpoint, whether it was on the Tower, whether it was at Zubi's creek, anyway. So, some cop took a bribe and that truck full of guns crossed that checkpoint and that's how guns are done. That's what we do today with guns and drugs. I must mention that Novi Pazar is the second city in Serbia to be a drug addict. What's going on over there? Does anyone need a money launderer again, to protect someone like a white bear, so we can have it on our heads tomorrow? We have a case of citizens' protection, we have a case of four detectives from Sjenica, Pazar and Tutin, who have disarmed over five and a half thousand illegally armed citizens in the area from 1991 to 1993. One of these is the SUP inspector in Novi Pazar, who has been convicted and nearly lynched on all media in the area, and has been left without the legal protection of Serbia's MUP. At least legal protection to give to a man who began as an intern and who, on the basis of some political qualifications of NGOs from 2000 to today, was persecuted, a man with two children lost his bread. It's really the criminal acts of individuals who discriminate against such a person. The amendment, which Mr. Nemanja Sarovic wrote, shows that police should primarily co-operate with state bodies of the autonomous province, local self-government and with citizens. A second position has been avoided here, where NGOs are mentioned, simply because those organisations, headed by Natasa Kandic, Biserko, Vuco, who knows who is doing everything to this country, have done the greatest harm to Serbia. They muddle us at every step of the way and in every place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21630	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Mircic, you have the right as chairman of the Committee to discuss the law in principle. I can give you my word if there's anything short to say. It's my discretionary right to give you my word now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21631	I am immeasurably grateful to you, but the point is to make improvements, if possible, to this legal proposal. In Article 6, the Ministry provided for and planned to decentralise police work, clearly defined who the police co-operated with, so the authorities listed at the local and regional level, but when it comes to defining and specifying the organisations with which the police co-operated, a failure was made by the SRS to fix, not only because the SRS amendment was short-defined, but because the substance of the content of the amendment was in the following, that everything was done in accordance with the Constitution, law and other regulations of this country. The amendment to this article was submitted by MP Meho Omerovic, who says the co-operation is taking place with "the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and their associations". "The bill says police co-operate with "the minority and other organisational groups and self-organised individuals. "Let's stay on these minority groups, what does that mean? The legislator, or legislator, meant representatives of national minorities, primarily. And not just what the colleague says, if we don't define it in this way as the amendment intervenes, we're going to have problems with the representatives of the national minorities. The organisation "Zupanija 64" operates in Vojvodina. It is presented in public as an organisation of representatives of the Hungarian national minority. Under this bill, the MUP should co-operate with such an organisation. What is the nature and essence of this organization? A semi-military organisation registered in Budapest, which operates in Serbia, or the territory of Vojvodina. What their programs are, what their definitions are, what their goals are, it's common knowledge. But for those who have not had the opportunity to meet so far, their goal is to create a great Hungary, to expand Hungary into the territory of Vojvodina, which is to re-examine peace agreements, such as Trijano and others. It is like a semi-militant organisation, a real danger, not only when it comes to the state of Serbia, but also when it comes to the operation of the MUP, or police. So it's also a security threat. If the police have to co-operate with minority organisations by law, then County 64 with full law, based on the law, to say, you can't prevent us from public gatherings, which so far has been, the truth works, precedents, and everything depending on how capable the local chief is, and so have they, too, organized their meetings. Now it does not depend on the ability and opinions of individual commissioners, they now have a foothold in the law, if this law is put into place. The amendments were defined by the SRS, that co-operation is in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this state, then such danger is avoided. We have a big problem, and not in the desire to alarm or arouse the public, but you realize that such a semi-military formation makes detailed preparations in the territory of the neighbouring Hungarian state, and it transfers its activities to the territory of Vojvodina, even having training camps. What is their basis, that is, their political action? It is that, as a semi-military organisation, they act and function on the territory of Vojvodina as a political party. Some leaders of political parties, representing national minorities, give them support and that is something, if this member of the law is adopted, which can make a big problem, because police cannot intervene in a timely manner, they cannot comply with the Constitution and the law, because the adoption of this law is in some way legalizing the functioning of such groups. I've set an example of a group like this. Maybe he's the most drastic, but we have to when we're making legal provisions that we have such cases in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21632	The word has an interior minister, Mr. Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21633	I think the concept of co-operation is being interpreted too closely in this case. So co-operation can go both from the police and to the police. So in order for the police to know that they're working, they have to make contact, and that's why this Article 6th, or attitude 2 is so wide that it covers everything. The police will never, and it's not essential in this law, to work and cooperate or to associate with someone who has such a problem as you said, so, like County 64, they'd be better off. No, he's also working with individuals in County 64 to protect the state. It's called co-operation. As for the emphasis on minority and other organised groups, we wanted to give the police the obligation to pay attention to all those who say that their rights are threatened, therefore, by a general and broad formula, in order to draw attention to our members, or to the leaders of this collaboration that must be covered. This also gives us a duty to the one in Subotica, the one in Kikinda, to pay attention to what is happening to him within his jurisdiction, so that the state would not then be responsible, so that Serbia would not be held accountable or defeated for something it did not do, nor was its intention in history.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21634	Mr. Jojic, 15 minutes have expired for the SRS, only if you're reporting on a second basis. Here, replica, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the police must be precisely organized, they must have precise powers and duties and obligations. Please, in the proposal of Article 6, there are three positions. These three attitudes are not acceptable, according to the SRS, because in some ways they extend the possibilities for any co-operation with anyone. Serbian radicals consider, in performing police affairs, police co-operate with state authorities, so I stress the state authorities; secondly, the authorities of territorial autonomy and local self-government, other institutions and citizens, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and other regulations, and here everything is covered. When it comes to other institutions and citizens, it's all covered. What is unacceptable for Serbian radicals is that NGOs are put first without citizens being mentioned in the bill at all. Why? Without the cooperation of the citizens, there is no police work. An officer or sector leader or members of the police who work in the sector where they are designated, without co-operation with citizens and in that neighborhood and on that street, has no say that they will achieve success in protecting the Constitution of established order. The protection of citizens and their security and property has no cooperation on the ground and on the street. It means that the officer or officer who was admitted to the service gets a neighborhood or a street to stay, but to stay where he was assigned, to meet every resident in every building, on every floor, in every apartment and in every home number. I had in practice members of the police who, at the time I worked in internal affairs, we had a sectoral principle of work, that a member of the police was in the sector on that street, in that neighborhood, and he had the best results, because he was going from house to house to citizen and with them made amazing co-operation. These citizens in the co-operation provided him with a number of information for the lighting and detection of numerous crimes and even spying. Citizens have created confidence in this policeman to the extent that they have left the keys to their apartment or their house when they leave for vacation and that is one mutual trust. Therefore, it should not be thrown out of the law but installed among the first priorities - co-operation with citizens. The proposal also states that police are working with other authorities, institutions, NGOs and other organisations, minority and other organisations, groups and self-organised individuals. Now I don't understand a self-organized individual. How does he define himself? How did that individual self-organize, that particular thing here creates a big mistake? It doesn't make sense. You have, Mr. Minister, an amendment to Article 6 where one position all covers the institutions with which the police cooperate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21636	MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21637	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, Article 6 as defined gives the police and the police minister the right and opportunity to organise the service in accordance with laws and needs. There are no police in the world who receive information about criminal acts, about phenomena, about other important issues for the security of citizens, property or state at the thematic conferences, at academic meetings, and there. The police are cooperating, the police are being provided to cooperate, if I may say so, and with those whose behavior is of interest to the police. If the police can't do that, then she shouldn't exist. Everywhere in the world valuable information on important issues, relating to security and threat to property or life, is unfortunately derived from criminal contracts. This cannot be obtained at the Serbian Academy of Sciences. How do you get that? Defines heading 3. It's given to the Minister discreetly. Police carry out co-operation under the law, it is important, by other rules and according to professional guidelines provided by the minister. I'm just asking you that the thing that's completely clear is that we don't elaborate. In every police department in the world, this works like this, if it's the police, the police. We have passed laws in this congregation that define a protected witness, or as we call it, because we have estimated that it is a greater social benefit for us to forgive someone for something he has done to obtain adequate information or adequate information about individuals or phenomena that threaten security, property of the state, etc. Police are co-operating with other bodies and institutions, NGOs and other organisations, minority and other organised groups and self-organised individuals. Of course. If anyone thinks there's no way to inform anyone about all these organizations or any other similar police, then we need to get her out of the budget for this year. I'm sorry to say this, but it's important to understand. There's a practice in security that drives someone away and that the state protects them and vice versa. These are subtle jobs in this area. They have to be defined by law. Article 6 provides sufficient guarantees that there will be no overpowerment, and that the police will have a way to function in accordance with social needs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21638	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21639	On the occasion of this amendment to Article 8, I'm going to go with a broader introduction. I think, Mr. Jocic, it's no problem for you to accept Mr. Sarovic's amendment to Article 6, because he sublimes everything you need. I'm glad that in these discussions on Article 6, where police tactics and technicals are being talked about, by means of means, there should be some kind of communication with that underworld. I'm glad my predecessor in this context talked about NGOs as part of an organized underworld. That's what they are. These are foreign mercenaries, destructive elements, with the nickname BKV, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuča, Dereta etc. But this ministry is not competent to protect this people's soul from the metal insurgency that goes through these Ustasha media every day. And what Mr. Sarovic suggested, Mr. Minister, absolutely sublimes everything you need and gives a second picture of co-operation. Co-operation in the widest possible way, which is in the role of preserving police competencies and police methods. Let me move on to this amendment, Mr. Jocic, which refers to Article 8. You see, we in the SRS think you'll have problems as a ministry if you have positions 2 and 3. Why? They will immediately jump those who hate this nation and this country, and will interpret from Section 2. Guidelines and mandatory instructions for work. They will interpret it in a negative sense, starting with Dana's Bozovic and beyond. How does this position of Article 8 give you the legal, legitimate right to influence a police investigation, etc.? That's why I suggest you accept this amendment, and all that stands in paragraphs 2 and 3 you already have in the State Administration Act. Mr. Jocic, you have this in the State Administration Act. This is what you have in the Ministry Act, this is what you have in the Government Act, this is what you have in the Civil Service Act, I think that's what the law that was almost passed is called. So you've got all this, and this is how it's written here, it's being misunderstood. Now let me explain to you what's in point 3. You, on the basis of this law, have the right to bring in sublaws. Of course, no one in the SRS wanted to affect any amendment to what is called an operational independence of police members, methods of work, methods of work, except in the part where it obviously does not normally affect human rights violations, where we had to intervene. But police methods, the way it's done, you're authorized to prescribe rules of conduct. You can do all that. In point 3, you say, and I think attitude 3 applies first of all to something related to Article 10(1), point 3, prevention, detection of criminal offences, etc. Of course, while the police are doing it, the Ministry has some influence. What's the impact? In that the police must apply instructions that in one general way regulate and use bats, and use of handcuffs, as a police service is performed, as a tip-off, communication is done, as this, as it is. That's what they have to apply. Of course the police are in charge of lighting, until the DA shows interest. Three years ago, the Code of Criminal Procedure was amended, and now the main character of the precipice is finally the municipal or district attorney, not the police. You've got all this, but the way you've come up with it and put it in 2nd and 3rd positions, you're drawing attention, as these across the street would say. Who? These BKVs and these others, they're going to call you through you officers who are doing a responsible job. Article 3 refers to the detection of the perpetrator of criminal offences. Of course the Ministry has some jurisdiction. In what way? Which prescribed that police officers would act, with methods of detecting crimes. As soon as criminal charges are filed, as soon as the case goes to lighting and the case is obtained by a public prosecutor, the ministry has no more decisive jurisdiction, a particular investigative action at the prosecutor's request, etc. Then we come to the field of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So what is in paragraphs 2 and 3 you already have in the Law on State Administration, the Law on Civil Service, the Law on Ministry, the Law on Government. This ridiculously worded can be a cause for some very bad comments and constant insinuations. I have to go back to Article 6 because he's very inspiring. It's a shame for the police to say that if they provide some kind of stray parade, then Natasa Kandic comes in and slaps a police officer to keep his mouth shut. She resists, she prevents an official person from performing official duty. It's an attack on the official face. I think you've made it possible for everyone to live up to a cop by a mild reaction. Why does she have that advantage? Please read about how Burma solved the problem of NGOs. It is the first state to successfully end the problem of NGOs. It wouldn't be bad for you to look at a little bit and the Russians what they're doing, because they finally figured out, after Jelicin and those others, what NGOs are. It does not interfere with freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, freedom of association, freedom of action, nothing is disturbed. If one Bush can tell the Helsinki Committee of Human Rights about Guantanamo and what's going on there, "you have to keep your mouth shut because you're working against the national interests of America," I expect you to use the same sentences because you're authorized to use those sentences. Why should there be more democracy in America than with us? In the same way, apply the democracy they apply. Don't be gentle, because that mildness means you don't comply with the legal obligation, and as soon as you don't comply with the legal obligation, it means you're in violation of the law, which means you're in conflict with the regulations and what the people of this country have prescribed through the national representatives in this room, through what's called the law, as a general rule that everyone has to respect. Without a stable, secure police force, of course, with respect to the law, the guarantee of human rights, etc., there is no stable state. That state that has weak police is not a state. That's not going to like those, you'll see the writings of these Ustasha media tomorrow, starting with B92 through NGOs, "radicals are for pendrek" etc. If the police are stable and secure, they meet their obligations under the law, objectively applying the law, we have a state. Why? Because she's one variant of the physical coercion monopoly, and he's in the definition of the state. You'll hear it, some will stand up for the democratic police. There's a lot of things you can hear about us. As Tadic says, "the national minority in a referendum on self-determination! "If he had learned something in life, he couldn't have been so wrong. I'm going back to Article 8. I don't want to talk about these termological and conceptual errors at the ministry's relationship in charge of affairs, ministers and other matters. I'm going to skip that, because I haven't been successful here, because I haven't convinced Balinovci, you're always pushing it into those laws, so I'm not going to waste that argument anymore. So, by adopting this amendment, you do not give up what you have prescribed in paragraphs 2 and 3. You, as the original right, have guaranteed other laws. I have to remind you, I didn't discuss when the debate was in principle, you were very wrong to come up with this law. You've given this law to someone to come up with, to work, not to go in or out of who it is, or what it is, but whoever it is, he's just forgotten one thing that's probably the most important thing: the MUP, according to the current constitution, is an organ of state administration, with some professional specificities. In what way? Some police work can only be done by the ministry, no other ministry can. It is the only ministry in this country in a situation where all the details are prescribed: the use of a stick, the way of detention, communication, seduction, recording, statistics, besides classical police work. There's a lot of administrative work here. It is one massive ministry, necessary to preserve, above all, constitutional order, security and security of citizens. Whoever worked for you on this concept of law, he forgot that the MUP is in the system of the government's authority. That's the main drawback here. In certain provisions, we note that the police have been devalued, that police affairs have been devalued, that many activities have been unnecessarily conditioned. About the humanity of our police, on one occasion I'll show you. In any Western state, especially in the U.S., if the police stop a citizen for some simple control, so they're suspicious and need some background checks, they put handcuffs on him, put him in a car, and drive him to a police station until he's finished checking. In our country and when a man calls, even if he makes a mistake and this Batic, he calls himself "good afternoon sir, it would be good to call" and he's been put to a choice to come, to talk to the man and finish the job. So, the amendment you accept, like that previous amendment, Nemanje Sarovic, nothing the police have lost to authority, nothing she has been held back. When we need to stop the police, it's the moment we think you're looking for something that can violate human rights. In Articles 6 and 8, in what you've written, we haven't found that you're violating human rights, but we think that the formulations are so stupid that, if they stay, there can be much more damage to the state and the police than the benefits of writing them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21640	Anyone else want a word? National MP Petar Jojic. You've got another minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21641	Ladies and gentlemen, this attitude 3 is very problematic in this bill of law. Why is he so troublesome? He is in direct contrast with the head of the 18th Code of Criminal Procedure. In the provision of Articles 222, 223, 225, 226, 227, 228, 229, to Article 240. The Code of Criminal Procedure has been regulated by the powers of all members of the Internal Affairs Authority. Today we have Minister Jocic; tomorrow we can have another minister, God forbid we fight for his soul when he comes and starts to apply these measures. I don't expect it from Minister Jocic, but I'm thinking of someone who can come and abuse these powers. It should not be regulated in law: the powers of the Minister for Police Procedures under Article 2 shall be valid until the public prosecutor is informed of the criminal offence and assumes the management of police conduct in a pre-criminal procedure. It's very dangerous and problematic. Why? Someone may be detained today, and the public prosecutor will be informed in 10 days, that this one will be taken to the Deliblat Cave or to Malen or Povlen, or to Tara, or Murtenica, and be held for 10 days without the public prosecutor knowing what is wrong with the person to whom the appropriate measures are being taken in the pre-criminal procedure. It's very dangerous. I therefore believe that this position is very problematic and therefore the SRS points out, because the internal affairs authorities, or authorised officials, are obliged, when they take these measures and actions in a pre-crisis procedure, to be empowered by the Code of Criminal Procedure, within two hours to inform the public prosecutor; to retain the person for 48 hours, to inform the investigating judge, to file a criminal report. What happens if it's over time, and it's even 10 days? (President: You're out of time. ) This would be very dangerous and would make an exception that would be in conflict with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21642	Anyone else want a word? The word has an interior minister, Mr Dragan Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21643	It can be concluded whether the police do anything at all or do it at full capacity to exercise their rights. It's always a big dilemma. These discussions show individual subjective impressions. But I have to say that since 2000, the concept that has been in the countries, or republics of the former Yugoslavia before, has been followed by writing one law that would decapitate the police, where the police would be on the one hand, the minister on the other side, while they would connect and determine their responsibilities, the one most organised -- those are criminals and organised crime -- could work carefreely. I have to say, the Code of Criminal Procedure is a law that's been run over by time. I wouldn't call on him for that much. Those who have been working with the police since 2000, before that, or since the law was passed, see that it is actually a set of standards that cannot wash away time. Also, the concepts and recipes that we were given to write about how police should look, by NGOs, by international organisations and other organisations that I must say have done certain jobs for money, given advice that is not applicable, have been left out of this law. Only what is essential is taken, which will speed up and complete our specificity, or specificity, of our police. I must say that certain republics of the former Yugoslavia have passed such laws that the entire security system cannot work. For example, state security services or agencies have been deprived of police authority. They put the police as a complete corps of separatum beyond all else, and removed the minister and the ministry from the police, without any possibility of managing or achieving the government policy or the programme of the minister chosen to simply edit, regulate or run the police. Article 8, I agree with counterpart Krasic, who saw the essence of the fact that the minister has to ask a question. And if we go through some interpretations, the Home Secretary doesn't have to exist at all. The police could completely put themselves under the management of a finance minister or someone who has the money, which would determine a certain portion of the money, give as a budget part of the police and the police themselves to spend. There must be a link or a spear between a minister, a politically responsible person, and a professional body, which carries out laws of power and duties. In Article 8, everything quoted by MP Krasic has been codified in some way, and it has been scattered according to different laws and put here precisely to indicate the police's relationship, because this is the law on police, and the interior minister, and enough authority has been given to the interior minister, enough opportunities to influence the government's policy that gave him, after all, the mandate. In Article 2, you have one very serious restriction -- that the interior minister will not be a minister, as the 1991 law has given power to the minister -- to actually be the first and direct elder. Today I am the first and direct elder of the MUP. With this law, the minister is not an elder, but an elder is a police director, but then you have to determine what is the relationship, the relationship between the minister, the police director and the police. It's regulated by this law and a single cabin or fence has been put in place, where it's said to respect the operational independence of the police. The police minister can't imagine, so he can be a specialist and speak -- there's a unit, here, this side through the door, let the helicopters go like this, put certain teams here, etc. It's a matter of expertise and craftsmanship, and it belongs to the police. As for attitude 3, there is no such thing in the Criminal Procedure Act, again I say it is bad for the police, because it has not established what needs to be established, no active relationship between prosecutors and police has been established. Prosecutors and today want the police to process the whole case, the maltenes, to file an indictment for them, which they would further forward with a request to conduct an investigation to the judge. That's right. The police have serious problems with that. This regulates the relationship between the police and prosecutors, but what has never been regulated -- the relationship between the minister and the prosecutor. As long as the minister can act against the police, and from where prosecutorial action and prosecution work arises. I have to say, if anything, this attitude of Article 8, Article 3, is good, which at least limits what is called public speaking. As long as the minister can make a certain statement or an authorised person, and as long as the public is informed by the prosecution. That's why I think this member is a link between what the minister, the Ministry and the police are supposed to be standing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21644	Mr. Jojic recognized himself and asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21645	Ladies and gentlemen, no one is saying that it is necessary to take away the minister of power that belongs to him under the law. But let's go back to the beginning of this article. Position 2: "The minister gives police guidance and mandatory instructions for work, with full respect for the operational independence of police. The minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks under their jurisdiction and take certain measures and report on this." I'm just saying that the Code of Criminal Procedure gives authority to members of the Internal Affairs Authority that in a pre-criminal procedure they can deprive certain persons of their freedom and determine detention. What's going on now? According to this, if this is the case, the minister may order you to arrest this and that, and until I decide to inform the public prosecutor or I will order the operative, now inform the public prosecutor; and ten days from the measure the police have taken. There's a problem. It is said "the powers of the Minister for Police Procedures under Article 2 are valid until the time when a public prosecutor is informed of the criminal offence and assumes the management of police conduct in a pre-crisis procedure". No, this is in direct violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I agree that some things should be changed in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but as long as the stronger law, this is a legions specialis, and the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Police is the Constitution, and that means legions generalis, and that's the difference. Police powers cannot be in conflict with the powers we have in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Until the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, until the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are made, this provision is very problematic. In practice, you will have a situation where the police take certain measures towards a particular person and in a pre-crisis procedure and the minister is not informed on time. According to that person, the measures are being applied and the abuses are being committed, the minister is being notified after seven days, he's hiding behind the minister's authority and he says, I apologize, Minister, I missed, I thought one way or another, please let you know and you now inform the public prosecutor immediately. Please, when police take certain powers in the pre-crisis procedure, it is detailedly elaborated, defined and consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and international legal acts. I agree with the proposal that this Article 1st and 2nd provides for it, but Article 3 points out that it is in direct contrast with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in direct contrast with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Hence, I propose that the amendment of the SRS, as proposed, be accepted by this member of the office, and will not be a problem in application. This will be opposed by prosecutors and investigative judges, so expect it now. And it's not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21646	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Committee on the Committee and Security has accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21647	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, Mr. Minister, we wanted this amendment to regulate, in a more precise, detailed and different way, the relationship of the interior minister to the National Assembly, that is, the one we are sitting here in this high house. Article 9, which we have submitted the amendment, provides that the minister submits to the National Assembly a report on the work of the Ministry and the state of security in the Republic of Serbia, and the working body of the National Assembly, responsible for security, at his request, and a report on issues from his work. Obviously, there's a deadline missing in which the report is submitted. It could be a year, six months, two years, five years, and it could be a little longer, and we know that the term of office of the Assembly is four years. So the minimum of what would have to be, for this assembly to be notified, is one year to submit a report. Furthermore, the relationship between the Ministry and the Assembly or the Assembly and the Ministry also corresponds to the obligation of the Ministry to notify the Assembly whenever it so requests, regardless of the deadlines foreseen by the law, because the Assembly chooses the Government and the Minister, and the Minister and Government responds to this assembly. That constitutional obligation, that the minister and government meet the Assembly, also corresponds to the ministry's obligation to receive a report from the interior ministry whenever the assembly asks. That's why we asked it to be at least once a year, and if necessary, if the minister considers it more often, and whenever the Assembly asks for it, and in shorter periods of time. This strengthens the congregation's control over the work of the administration's authority, which the Ministry of the Interior is. This control is very important because certain actions, i.e. events in the Republic of Serbia, will necessarily require a spot-like or rapid response of the Assembly, and the Assembly will not be able to react quickly if the authorities of the administration that are monitoring the situation in a particular area, and this is the area of internal affairs, and if the Ministry of Interior does not respond properly and not inform the Assembly with a proposal for a measure. At the moment at which the Serbian Parliament and the state of Serbia are facing a question, whether or not to be, ahead of the issue of resolving Kosovo's status, the problems in the south of Serbia and the problems that arise, as colleagues here have noticed, and in northern Serbia, or Vojvodina, it is very important that we be properly informed about everything, so that we can also propose certain measures. I would share my fellow counterpart Mircic's concerns about those movements coming from abroad, from our northern neighbour Hungary, who define Serbian citizens as citizens of southern provinces, as I see Hungary is in the north of Serbia, then I don't see what the southern province would be, whether it's Vojvodina or anything else. It's been about a hundred years since the Republic of Serbia, and I don't see how these movements would have any legitimacy with us. It's on one side. On the other hand, I would disagree with the proposal that police have more powers than citizens who call for talks, legislation, etc., as counterpart Krasic advocated. I think the way the police are working now is quite appropriate, and that's one way I support the police. In a situation that could also be with us, but fortunately not, if citizens don't treat the police the way they do, I think that citizens also have an appropriate correct relationship with the police, we could talk about some more pronounced and stronger, more binding police actions when it comes to relations with citizens. However, while this situation is in Serbia, while our citizens do have a correct attitude towards internal affairs authorities and bodies, I do not think it is necessary to really strengthen these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21648	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21649	For the sake of more complete information, the Committee adopted the amendment, which was tabled by fellow MPs, by the majority of votes. However, the legislator did not accept the amendment at the Committee's session. What is the essence, and also contains this amendment and the SRS amendment, which Petar Jojic submitted, is that one minimum is determined when it comes to submitting a report to the country's parliament by the police, so it is defined once a year, differently defined in two amendments, and somewhere it stands "at least once a year", and in the amendment submitted by Petar Jojic, it "must be made mandatory once a year". The bottom line is this -- in this law, there is an obvious orientation to increase and improve control, both parliamentary and outside parliament. In the part where control is carried out outside parliament, and the government is in charge, much is clearly defined by the existing law and this law, by clearly defining it through the powers of the Prime Minister and himself, and the minister is a member of the government, so that the control is in a way quite well defined and defined. But when it comes to parliamentary control, we shouldn't, as a colleague just said, that something that's undefined we're leaving behind. It's relatively relative when it comes to submitting a report during which period it is. If we say it's the smallest period of a year, then we have clearly defined the Ministry of the Interior's obligation. If we say it's a minimum year, then it means that reports are submitted during one calendar year, if necessary. If we do not say so, then we will be faced with the situation, as in the earlier period, where the minister had no legal obligation to address it when it comes to submitting the report to parliament. What is a fact that in the past there have been more reasons, more reasons for parliament to hear the report by the interior ministry, for the simple reason that we know that events in Kosovo have had the most direct impact on the security of this country. The very fact that some of the actions took place in Serbia's cities during this period, which and how they significantly threatened the security of the entire state, should at least have been considered in this parliament, that parliament was declared by adopting or not adopting a report, accepting or correcting all that the minister's representative, in this case, brought to parliament, to those, if it can be said, second-rate events, which are significant for the security of this state, when the direct security of the president of the Republic was threatened by the schnookers. And that's the subject, because that's the function he's doing, no matter what kind of individual he is. In this case, it doesn't matter... He was bearded, and some of the potential assassins are being debated by experts in the area, I think they're called kineecologists. What about cinemalogists, co-workers? You understand that, thank you. When you get along, I guess you're headed for it well, if you have some kind of relationship to urinate to get a cacib. It's a pedigree award, for exercise, but it doesn't matter now, colleague, thank you for your help. It is an important situation where, in a certain time period, there is a real danger and a threat to the security of this country, that parliament, as a control body, does not only take control of the fact that the election and resolution of the minister exercise control, but there must be one minimum, means at least once a year that the report is submitted. And as for the working body of the Assembly, it is defined by the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately not clear, not exactly how much the lawmaker tries in some way, but there must be a clear definition, because we will have more and more pressure from the international community to introduce the so-called. Civil control over the Ministry of the Interior, so to prevent and prevent such a thing, which has also proved to be negative through the experiences of many countries, we must step up parliamentary control by defining clearly that it is once a year when the minister submits a report, as well as the obligation to take a position in the course of the year or mandate, when it comes to this opportunity, when real assumptions exist, that the minister address this parliament, that parliament takes a position. I am telling you this because it is clear to all of us that in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, especially in southern Serbia, there is always a permanent danger of terrorist actions, of terrorist enterprise, and that we are not talking about an increase in crime rates, and to the fact that we saw yesterday as a harsh reality when it comes to traffic security. All this is also how important information, data and events are discussed by parliament. We can subsequently determine or analyse, but if through this parliamentary control we act preventively, then it will not happen to us, or at least not in so many numbers, cases and tragedies as happened yesterday, which most of them arise, the truth does, because budget funds are not well and properly allocated when it comes to the functioning of this ministry. And I'm saying this as president of the Committee, because when the debate on budget adoption was held, then we pointed out, together with the representatives of the Ministry, that the technical equipment of the traffic police sector itself is significant and significantly affecting the security of citizens. Let's not after the great tragedies that we're making some conclusions about the aftermath, because it's no longer worth it now, but we also need this kind of control to improve the work of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21650	The People's Messenger Goran Jaksic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21651	Dear colleagues, the amendment to Article 9 has been submitted by G17 plus for the reasons brought here by colleague Marko Krstin. Regarding this amendment, just a few words, for the sake of correctness, which is the obligation of MPs and the Assembly. In this meeting of the National Assembly, the Committee on Defence and Security, or the National Assembly, had a very good relationship with the Ministry of Interior and with Minister Jocic on these very issues. So, at the invitation of the Security Committee addressed to Minister Jocic, there were no negative answers. With this amendment, it would only be a continuation of this good co-operation, not only with this minister, but also with all other interior ministers and ministries that would be formed after some new elections. A team before this amendment is welcome as a continuation of a good tradition and development of precisely this control, control of parliament, or the Committee on Defence and Security over this sector of the state administration, or the Ministry of the Interior. Also, what would be good to know when it comes to submitting reports and co-operation with the ministry is that it is not a meeting and a report from the ministry and a meeting of the Committee with the minister and his associates only so that the ministry's work and the minister's work is criticised. Of course, this is not only the goal of meeting the Security Committee, whether they are open or closed to the public, it is not always about criticizing the work or seeking a specific report, but also about the occasion, and we had a case in the March events in Kosovo last year when the Committee met many times, we had very constructive meetings with the Ministry of Interior in which the Ministry received advice and assistance from the Security and Assembly Committee. It is therefore also necessary to hold the meeting at least once a year and, if necessary and more frequently, as set out in the draft law and the amendment, to carry out the report. In addition to possible criticism, the ministry and the minister will receive support from parliament or the Security Committee and possible further co-operation of the highest legislative body in the Republic, or parliament in their further work, at any time in the case of regular activities, whenever it comes to emergency activities, as was the situation in the March events in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21652	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am reporting as a member of the Committee on Defence and Security to point out to you that the amendment spoken of, which is almost essentially identical to the amendment of counterpart Peter Jojic from the SRS, is something you should definitely accept. I can't see, and even in working with you so far in relation to the Committee's contacts, there's been any interference in communication. We disagree with this legal solution and as a party we will vote against the law. Very often we ask questions from the fields of state and national issues, and this remains in our debt, as one of the worst police ministers, Dusan Mihajlovic. You inherited all these unsolved situations, especially when it comes to all those problems initiated by our party's president, Professor Vojislav Seselj. But I must point out first and foremost the personal satisfaction of participating in the Committee's work, which is a level of such sensitive issues, such as the security issue of the state and the people, the questions of the police department, raised the highest floor under the patronage of fellow Milorad Mircic. Earlier, during the infamous DOS rule, when members of the MUP were abused in the worst possible way, when the heads of the MUP were placed in the service of one party and leaders who wanted in every way possible to deal with political indivisibles, usually by oral order and Cedomir Jovanovic and those cockroaches Bebe Popovic and others, it was really pathetic that the MPs, and you were also vice president of the Committee and MP, Mr Jocic, were all following the statements given by Dragan Sutanovac. The imperfect NATO and British student, who claims to be understood in the area of security, and every Serb knows it better than he does, and has not been paid or taken at the cashier's register of these organisations and intelligence services, has been slandered in the worst possible way and has spoken of all the worst of MPs and representatives of political parties. And you know that we, as a party to this meeting, did not participate at all in the work of the Committee in that period, from 2000 to 2003, but we expressed our views on the abuses of the service, that he, as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, was placed in office of a destructive policy, which is very harmful to the state and people, particularly to the citizens who felt it on his skin during the famous "Sabbe" action. If you look at how all those arguments fell, the quasi-agreements of the SRS and the predecessors of the government before 2000, you will see that, with the help of such attitude and behaviour, first of all, the chairman of the Committee of Mr Mircic, and then all of us, after so many years, committed the demystification of something called BIA, the former SDB, because it was the only possible way to establish parliamentary control and that we, here in Parliament, the highest legislative body, would receive the BIA director, to discuss the report that we have received twice a year, as well as yours. We don't see why it's a distraction to do it more often. We know, unfortunately, what a sensitive moment Serbia is in today and what all the challenges are ahead of us. Especially when it comes to the role of police, which should certainly be given to any recognition because of the conditions in which it works and the sensitivity of the area where it works, when it comes to these three southern Serb municipalities and in general when it comes to police operations throughout Serbia's territory. We never know, God forbid, what kind of situation can happen to us, but when we have to meet you to give us in a shorter period than six months, you file a report, maybe for the past month, in two months, 15 days, how do we know that? That is why it would be good for you to accept our position, especially because of the fact that, above all, both as a politician and as an excellent acquaintance of this area, Mr Mircic and all the members of the SRS Committee and other colleagues who participated in this work and in communication with you. In the end, it would only, in certain important moments, help to make possible some of the tensions in society quieter, as was the case in the nights between 17 and 19 March 2004, when Mr Mircic last year appeared to me on 19 September, organized together with members of the Committee on International Relations, going to the Saturday City House, to talk about all the negative things that are being done by those who do not want Serbia and all Serbian citizens, and trying to impute us. And all such things and any such events really require that, if necessary, multiple times over the year, you report to the Committee of the Assembly, or the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's enough arguments for you to accept our position, and I can see that he is also expressed in members, especially because of the submission of this amendment, which was spoken of by colleague Krstin, members of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21654	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We're moving on to the amendment, just a moment, let me read it first, and I'll give you my word later. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Before that, because of the continuing discussion and the importance of this law, as well as the need for MPs to speak specifically because of those MPs' clubs who are not coming to participate in the debate, although they reflect MPs' clubs and all activities, because it is important to give time to submit the amendments, it is due Saturday at 10.00 hours, today we will be working until the end of the debate of this law in particular, so we will see how long it will be. When I said the amendments were submitted, I meant, of course, for the next session that starts on Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21655	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal reads Article 9 just to remind ourselves: "The Minister submits to the National Assembly a report on the work of the Ministry and the state of security in the Republic. "When? There isn't. Further, "and the working body of the National Assembly responsible for security, at his request, and a report on issues from his work. "We ask from the SRS what if maybe some minister who will not be Mr. Jocic tomorrow will be someone who has come from which structure, from what structure, won't, some kabadiah, come to mind that he comes before the Assembly and submits the report to the MPs. What democracy is in one country is appreciated for what the Code of Criminal Procedure is and what the law on police are like. Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS proposes an amendment to Article 9 so that it reads: "The Minister of the Interior is obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at least once a year." So, at least once a year, and to the Committee on Defence and Security of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and more frequently on their request and joint cases and individual cases. In parallel to the law of some European countries, the interior minister also reports on individual cases. Should the interior minister submit a report on a constructive and unfair resolution voted by the European Union parliament in Strasbourg. Ladies and gentlemen, should we perhaps be distracted from the mind that after that resolution in Vojvodina, a number of observers arrived? It's phase one. Phase two, they come armed, with short weapons, to provide observers. Stage three, they come with long weapons to provide observers and short-armed ones. Stage four, they come with combat vehicles, tanks and sandbags. Stage five, occupation. Based on what is in the resolution, which refers to alleged human rights violations, which some NGOs have forced over 12% of the MEPs in the European Parliament, thanks to the policies of the neighbouring country, its interests, and its propaganda, and its propaganda and its propaganda satellites in Vojvodina, which have so tarnished us and blackened us, so it was the impression that a black cloud overtook the province of Vojvodina. You see, and that would be enough for the Home Secretary to deny it, and there's evidence for that. Ladies and gentlemen, what is attributed to Serbia and Serbs, that the international rights of national minorities in Vojvodina have been violated, is one great disgrace, one great injustice towards the Serbian people and Serbia. The SRS MPs in that parliament interpreted the European Parliament, refused and disputed all these claims, because they were unfounded, constructed, that only Serbia and Serbs were portrayed as a people who would blaspheme human rights in Vojvodina. Why don't you get our great neighbors and big friends of this society to just take out the statistics? They have a problem with statistics. Which doesn't come out specifically, what happened in the area of Subotic County, Zrenjaninski, Somborski, Sremska Mitrovica, Novi Sad or Pancheva. Why don't they come out once with specific data? Event, place and time, qualification. Of course they don't. That is why they will not admit that in one day, violations of the human rights of Serbs in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija are done more than in five years in the area of the AP Vojvodina. That would be sufficient reason and I would suggest that the interior minister present statistics. Is it possible to qualify, if two boys, one Serb and one Hungarian or one Slovak and one Slovak, or one Slovak and one Romanian had a fight over a girl, or had had a glass or two brandy or beer and had a fight, under that category, that it was a violation of the rights of national minorities? That's why it's very important, to help the ministry, to remove the anatema from the MUP, to keep the data hidden, that the MUP won't, I don't have that impression with Minister Jocic. I call on him, if he is invited by the competent body of the Serbian Parliament, whose head is Mr Mircic and the other members of all the parties participating in this committee, to listen to the information and to inform the public that it has failed unfounded and that this is the insolence of those who have brought such a side of the resolution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21656	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. You wish, Mr. Minister, right away. Here you go. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: No, First Minister. I'll tell you who wants the word, and I'll figure it out. (Milorad Mircic, from the post: If he wants a minister, I can, and then he can. I can ask the question again. Who else wants to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21657	The good intentions of the promoter do not necessarily mean the well-being passed by the law. The promoter predicted that there were no restrictions on this article, and when it comes to the time period, no number of reports. But we cannot do so as colleagues from other political parties, apart from us from the Serbian Radicals, say that it is correct to co-operate on the work of the Committee and the Ministry to set up one legislative proposal, or one member to define what is the obligation of the MUP and what are the responsibilities of the Assembly and its working body. There must be one minimum. For a number of reasons that you yourself have instructed from this assembly address, and from the simple fact that the correctness in work does not result from personal relations or something else, it stems from the fact that we are more or less all members of the Committee are aware that the security of this country and how significant it is, that it is also significant and threatened, that different influences seek to disrupt security, not only of the state, but also of every citizen. If we had an open debate, which would take place on the report, not only in front of the Committee, but also in front of this Parliament, it would be minimal once in the course of the year, then many things in the coming period could be clearly defined and eliminated. They also refer to the activities and work of the province's parliament, to the work and work of certain local parliaments, which they take as their right, although it is against the law and against the constitution, to discuss the work of the MUP, and not in the right positive sense, words to contribute and improve the safety and safety of their citizens in that territory, but in the most negative sense. You have one fact, which is simply a paradox, that the official representatives of the political parties present before the European Parliament charges the work of the MUP, and on the other hand these same people, i.e. persons as officials of the Regional Assembly and the Executive Council of Vojvodina, officially demonstrate that there is no occasion, no reason to accuse the MUP of anything relating to the position and rights of national minorities, for example in Vojvodina. If through more regular reports and parliamentary control they would inform the public and inform the international community, then it would be a big step not only when it comes to the public and the international community, but rather in preventing the functioning of such individuals and their political parties. It is widely known that the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, who ended before the university than he was open for a third year, officially, in statistics he presented as the President of the Vojvodina Assembly, pointed out that the number of international conflicts in the Vojvodina area was significantly lower this year compared to the same period last year, and, on the other hand, as a official, as a prominent public figure, before the European Parliament advocates and presents something that is contrary to this adopted report by the Vojvodina Assembly, while not missing the opportunity to, accusing the MUP, its organisation, the way of action, highlight its political demands and objectives - that happiness and well-being live in Vojvodina when Vojvodina had its own police. And besides that, when Vojvodina has its own Academy of Sciences, that freak, the nakarada they created, it is a clear foundation of the statehood of the Duke. Therefore, the MUP in this case, regardless of its good intentions to submit the report unlimitedly, still has to define this minimum. We Serbian radicals only ask the minister to remove such a potential danger by accepting the SRS amendment. As for my colleague's statement that there's a possibility that a minister who's different might come in next, I don't know, but I know he'll be from the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21658	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21659	Of the various controls that exist, one is the most significant and one is essential, and that is Parliament's control. No one can control, ask questions, put in an awkward position of the minister, not just internal affairs, but each other's, especially internal affairs, but this assembly. I know that because since 1992 I have been an MP in this assembly until I became a minister. I know this business provision was a mere letter on paper. Someone said here, when I was vice president of the board, I was chairman of the board, so, if you remember, the evicted DSS MPs from parliament took their mandates, until then and since then, the business provision has not been used. When I say so far, that means up to this summons. I must say, the Defence and Security Committee has been working as never in the history of the Serbian parliament since 1945. It is simple that all questions are being raised and is for the first time the chairman of the Committee from the opposition party. We did it on purpose. We simply know that the opposition party has the most courage, since it is the opposition, it relaxes certain responsibilities that are borne by the management of certain mechanisms and can freely and without fences and political disciplines to ask questions that are important to the state. This is what we've come up with to open a wide standard and give ourselves the obligation to report to the Assembly and to the Committee. From this part, where it is said "on his request", it could be concluded that, how many times, when, at what time and occasion, it determines the most own power, so to speak, although all three are equal, and that is parliamentary, it is the Assembly. The amendment of the SRS is, in fact, prescribed Rules of Procedure and must be said, unlike the G17 which gives one possibility of a more frequent session. We didn't want to take the property of this assembly to determine the pace when the minister would report to this house. I must remind you that the Rules of Procedure are a constitution or a law of MPs and that the Rules of Procedure are adopted in the same procedure as any other law. Simply, to go by that logic, by the logic of a congregation entity, by a parliamentary entity, by a group of all of you as the bearer of power, we wanted you to determine how many times the minister will submit the report. We've regulated here what we have to do with the work of the Assembly, so that at the request of the president of the Committee, we can do more than once. As far as this issue is concerned, which is open, if it is related to security and the public, and as far as Vojvodina is concerned, as interior minister, I am prepared to always report to this assembly and to the Committee. Reports were submitted to the Committee and were requested immediately, the day after the incidents occurred, the Committee president asked for meetings to be scheduled. We were talking about the situation in Vojvodina. I must complete this discussion of the MPs. Interestingly, there was no question from 2000 to 2003 whether there were incidents in Vojvodina. When you see the statistics, the reports I found in the MUP, it's like something happened all of a sudden, and since 2003, incidents have started. That's when I had to start keeping records, to protect both the Ministry and the State from something that I didn't think was very good on purpose. My analysis and analysis of the MUP will be available to all of you, statistically, according to qualifications and according to everything that has happened and what is happening in Vojvodina. I think parliament should be aware of that. It seems to me that the Assembly has to open this question, statistically verify those data that the MUP has, in order for it to be an argument contrary to what is now at work and what I think is an evil intention. So, I am fully at my disposal to all MPs that what we've been leading, I've been speaking since 2003, I've been out, and it's been happening in Sombora, Subotica, Novi Sad and Kickinda territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21660	The replica was reported by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21661	Mr. Zankov, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am using the right to reply, because I believe that in one part of the minister, among other things, he interpreted my presentation wrong. I must tell you, Minister Jocic, that nothing was deliberately done when Mr Mircic was elected president of the Defence and Security Committee. It's pure math. The SRS is the strongest party in Serbia, the strongest party in parliament and has 82 MPs. The moment Mr. Mircic was elected president of the Committee, he was strictly respected reciprocity. That's why Mr. Zankov is the vice-president of the assembly, so Mrs. Pop-Lazic is the vice-president of the assembly and that's why other Serbian colleagues worked in the seats of the president and some in the seats of the deputy chairman of individual committees. That's exactly what I was talking about earlier in the part of my presentation, that this was a key reason during the period of DOS blatant government from 2000 to 2003, that we were not involved in the work of the board, because it was not respected that reciprocity and you know it. Otherwise, Mr. Mircic was elected president of the Committee when you were an MP and Vojislav Kostunica was an MP, when the president was Dragan Marsican. So, the moment you didn't know who you were going to collect everything from the end and the rope, you were going to put this government on hold. As for the work of the Committee on Defence and Security, in addition to what you said, it is indeed the part to be welcomed by every member of the Committee, but it does not agree with our request and amendment by fellow Jojic, that the public is necessary, that the Assembly is the one who has the power to control the MUP, to ask questions. How is that not enough reason for you to accept the amendment of the SRS? You say - it's already contained in the Rules of Procedure. When you misread that it is the Rules of Procedure that is above the law and the Constitution that is not true at all, it determines how the highest legislative body works. The Rules of Procedure must comply with the applicable laws and the Constitution. The Rules of Procedure and some committee, let's say, the Health Committee, gives itself the right to the contrary to the law, say, to carry out laboratory findings of a possible bird flu; these birds have flyers from a party to a party; there are thieves and predators and everything. I'm only telling you this because the Rules of Procedure must comply with the laws. Even if it was prescribed a business provision, it doesn't matter if it's in the law. Especially because I believe that you, as well as Mr. Mircic and the representatives of the SRS, must have a different opinion than that unfortunate Shutanovec. In the lack of arguments, of not knowing the spelling, which he showed when he created those ridiculous posters against Mr. Vukic a few days ago, leaving parliament, so now the martyrs all they wanted, they don't know how to get back, he goes from television to television and talks nonsense. Do you know what he advocates? Full discretion, or darkness in the congregation, when it comes to the work of the Defence and Security Committee. He'd be willing to go back to OZNA and leather coats. Do you know what he says - he can't work on the board, he's bothered by all this, because the BIA reports, imagine, him who's been with Cedomir Jovanovic and other kabadijas, Beb, Mijatovic, Zoran Petrovic, have been doing everything he's done for the past three years when he's been in power, says he can't ask a question because the reports are censored, so he feels uncomfortable, that's the MUP report and he can't talk because he's public. (President: Time.) Who can take it as an argument? But since you have a different opinion, I suppose, from the Sutanovac; you've corrected me well, you've all passed your parliamentary cards here, so Mile Korean and about 12 other citizens in the Assembly and Sutanovac for work-- the Defence and Security Committee, that's a small correction. In any case, nothing bothers that, if you say that it is prescribed from word to word, the business provision is put into law, because in this way we will show that it's time, the worst time it's promoted and advocated by the DS, behind us, at least when it comes to the work of the Defence and Security Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21662	Thank you. National MP Petar Jojic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21663	Thank you. Mr. Zankov, Serbian radicals are proud that you are the vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm glad you gave me your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no accident that the SRS has proposed this amendment, that the minister submits a report on work to the National Assembly at least once a year. So, at least once a year. Under the terms of this member, as he norms it, the minister is not obliged to file a report. There's no deadline. It's not even standardized when -- whether once, not once, or more times. When it comes to comparative law, the ministry and the minister have had the opportunity to make sure that in other countries, and even in our environment, the interior minister is scheduled to submit to parliament at least once a year a report on the work of the police, the competent Security and Defence Committee, several times on his request, and even in parallel law, I own one law from one country and I will not appoint him, is also envisaged for certain cases. So this case, which Mr Mircic spoke of and what the minister pointed out after our reminder, is sufficient reason to submit a report to parliament, because it is of general interest for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia - to deny ourselves and defend against the evil intentions of individuals who want to fight us. They want me to fight with Hungarians, Romanians or Slovaks. They don't stand a chance. I have friends with Romanians, Slovaks, Hungarians. I have colleagues, Hungarians, with whom I live in a mixed environment and there are no problems. What Natasha said, there are also beautiful Hungarians, Slovaks, Romanians. We're thrilled that they're so beautiful and that they get along well with us. Since this is provided in parallel law, I remind the minister that I am the interior minister, I would come before parliament and MPs more than once, and inform them of the state of security in southern Serbia. I'd like to file a report on the state of organized crime. I'd like to file a report on the fate of 12,000 citizens of unlawfully deprived freedoms. (President: Time) I would like to submit a report on how much damage the government then has done to the Republic of Serbia's budget, because these 12,000 citizens should submit claims for the compensation of immaterial damages. That's what they're up to. The finance ministry is now paying out of the Republic's million-dollar damages budget. It would be sufficient, especially when it comes to the provisions of Article 7 which prescribe the powers and competences of the Ministry, there are 17 powers and 17 numbers that highlight and install the organisation, jurisdiction, affairs and obligations of the MUP. (President: Time.) ) I thank you, Mr. Zankov, for being correct, even though you are a Serbian radical, I am proud that Zankov is the vice president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21664	Thank you. The People's MP Milorad Mircic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21665	It's not literally a replica, but I wanted to say something about what the minister presented one fact and the fact, which is true, that for many years he was an MP, we were together also reminders for Mr. Minister, remember that this clearly undefined provision of the law was a stumbling block in the past period. The appearance of a minister in such a defined member, as in this law, depends on the congregation's majority, does not depend on the events and needs of the ministry itself to address the Assembly. The assembly majority is launching an initiative, i.e. adopts the initiative and determines whether and when the minister will address the Assembly. Let us not now take advantage of the opportunity to remove what is now mine and you, as well as many other colleagues, has been a major distraction when it comes to not only submitting the report, but also reviewing the work of the MUP. We are aware and responsible enough to now be able to find some legal provision and definition to commit not only this minister, but also future ministers. Isn't there enough warning for us, everything that happened when it came to the state of emergency, the period of emergency, when this congregation was simply manipulated? Shouldn't we still have enough reason for the current initiative, which the SRS submitted, and Dr Vojislav Seselj said, to discuss the murder of Zoran Djindjic and all cases in parliament. What was more important now when it comes to cases, such as the Ibar highway, such as the murder of Ivan Stambolic, to conduct a parliamentary debate on the basis of the minister's report primarily? If this is not done, if it depends on the will of the majority or the relationship of the political forces in this parliament, we will have even greater problems than they have in the past. You see how manipulative he is with the Ibar highway case. Look at the manipulation and political abuse of the murder of Ivan Stambolic, not to mention the murder of Zoran Djindjic. What was more logical and natural than to have Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic appear under the law, adopted in 1991? You yourself have felt your own skin, Mr. Minister, as chairman of the Defence and Security Committee, why you are removed from that position. Isn't it clear to you now, on the basis of all the facts you've carried out, that you're inclined in time to prepare everything that is related to the work of the Committee and the MUP during the state of emergency, or the "Sabre" action? The fact cannot be covered by what is said - we have decided to lead the Committee as opposition MPs. The question is how much political influence you will have, how much influence you will have within the party, especially the Government, so let's not let it depend on your position or any other position or any other political or party influence, enough to say that the obligation is once a year, but even then the majority will make the decision as they think it is and how it feels it is appropriate. There is no fear or danger, if it is provided in this conference, that the majority of the congregation vote that it is not necessary to consider the report. After all, let's not let legal indemnity get us a precedent again, as we had when the president of the DOS parliamentary group, now the legendary and famous Democrats Jovanovic said -- you have no right to discuss the government's trust, because you did not vote for the government. Don't go into the history of parliamentaryism with that fact that you had the chance, and you didn't take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21666	The word has a minister, so Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21667	When the amendment of the SRS is better looked at, if we want a full debate and a full conversation, it limits the full debate. You've only narrowed it down to the Minister's written report. If it's up to the minister to come before you, then not just in writing. I can write you a den of those papers, send you here, so no one can read it. I think this solution we've given is fully followed by the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, where the minister is coming here, so he's going to talk here, to question him. But it doesn't have to be the Assembly either. Mr. Mircic, you are a witness, and I am also a witness, that the Committee has never worked more than now, and the Committee is also operational, and has the power and power to raise the questions that are raised on it, and the debate that opens on it, to the public. So let’s not just limit whether the amendment will be adopted or not, as some point, look at the essence. The bottom line is that it is now a high assessment of the work of the public and of the MUP and BIA, which submits reports at the request of the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21668	Thank you, Mr. Jocic. According to the Rules of Procedure, Miss Jovanovic is using it. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21669	I'll use the Rules of Procedure right on the line. Because now, in this presentation, the minister is one part of my earlier comment, when you were not there, Mr. Markovic, misread. It's just a form, a written report, because we know you're not Dusan Mihajlovic, the one until he reads, and when he reads two sentences, he can't keep his mouth shut and talk normally, and you, Mr. Jocic, can. You, as you said, have been one of the first MPs since the start of the multi-party, with Mr Mircic, and have said nicely that the Defence and Security Committee, led by Mr Mircic, has worked best so far. Unlike that poor man Sutanovec, who claims otherwise, who is angry at his ignorance and for the fact that he works for all agents around the world and not for his country and people, exhibits it in such a way and asks that the sessions not be public. When it says it's just a form, it doesn't mean that you don't come with a written report, and it's written in any case, it's illiterate, the Sutanovac who writes illiterate posters, and you come and we talk. This report is being debated, we are talking, we are coming to the conclusion, my colleague Mircic in the most democratic and toleranceal spirit, as he has done so far, in a unique way, an excellent acquaintance, it concludes. I see a colleague looking at the ceiling. My colleague, you learn a little bit about the state of security and these jobs, so brag. It's not by the system that only the Gypsies of their horse praise, it's because they're facts. When the government says, whose head is the opposition MP, it works best in the history of Serbian police, then what there is more to talk about. As for the possibility of us talking on the basis of a single report, you will not give Mr. Jocic for a shorter period of one month to give such extensive and detailed depictions with graphs and with all the data we receive, such as the six-month reports -- no, but a shorter review of the situation. Then we talk about it nicely and we show that we are ready to continue, best until now, doing our job and I don't see why that would be a problem if you didn't accept all of our arguments. That's all for clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21670	Thank you. The word has a Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21671	The amendments to the SRS and amendments to the G17 are very similar to the amendments. It seems to me that amendment G17 is more complete because it includes this oral form. I accept that amendment to become an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21672	Since the previous discussion, which lasted more than an hour, has repeatedly and claimed to be two amendments with the same essence, the minister has been identified and found to have accepted the amendment to Article 9, which four MPs submitted, that I am now not reading names, which is the amendment that we previously discussed. Since the Committee on Defence and Security has already adopted the amendment, since the Legislative Committee considered the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. (Petar Jojic, from the post: Replica Minister for Amendment. ) It's all right, just explain to me, since I wasn't there, just tell me what the basis is. Whether the basis is a wrong interpretation or an offensive expression about you personally. Both. Here you go. At the same time, I ask the MPs to make sure that there is no offensive expression. This refers to the moment before when there was a very offensive expression about the MPs. Please, you must respect privacy. So, an MP who has been claimed to be unhappy is, in my opinion, a lucky person, so it is not correct to talk about private lives and the views of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21673	Of course there are both happy and unhappy. I am offended that my amendment is not adequately interpreted. The Minister of the Interior is obliged to submit a written report to the National Assembly at least once a year. What's illogical is to file a written report. As a People's MP, I would like to ask and suggest that the interior minister submit a report to Parliament on the next events and facts. First, the oral one, let him explain it: the number of public order and peace violations in the area of the Republic of Serbia, the number of traffic offences, the number of mandates in public order and peace and traffic, the number of criminal acts of pocket theft, fraud, the number of criminal acts of rape, the number of criminal acts with organised crime, the number of crimes with murders, the state of security. The MPs of the SRS say you didn't return the jeep, owned by the SRS, which has a deed to it. Therefore, I think the minister now understood that a written report is being submitted to the Assembly, because it covers a large number of data, that the minister is unable to orally expose, remember and defend it before lawmakers. I believe Minister Jocic will agree to this, and that is why we have submitted a written report with all the data. I don't think any of the MPs can remember all the data if they ask for parliament. This was not a targeted and targeted amendment exclusively to the requirements of Minister Jocic. For another future minister, it is not necessary to leave room for him to decide whether he will come before parliament or not to pay attention and a report on who is responsible for certain affairs. The amendment is identical with the amendment of my colleagues from another party. Therefore, both amendments essentially have the same goal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21674	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21675	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I'm surprised Miss Natasa Jovanovic doesn't know that Mr. Sutanovac is a very happy man. He was an aide to the federal minister, so he took 36 salaries, so he sat in the jeep in the SDPR, and now the man is happy and ready to be Alexa Zunic, the card has already been printed. On Article 10, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment relating to chapter two, which defines the concept and type of police work. In Article 10(1), the words "fight against" are replaced by the words "preventing and suppressing". This could be a rhetorical question, a matter of understanding. The legislator and legislator had a different concept. I thought the idea of fighting was a little more firm than suppressing and preventing, but I accept the argument that it is possible in some other things to carry this out condescendingly. We'll see how the MPs define themselves in voting day. In the same attitude in point 4 of the words "and other persons wanted" are deleted point and commad and the words "and the finding of missing persons and cases of crime and violations" are finally added. The amendment corrects one error. We could identify the perpetrators of the crime and the persons we're looking for. The persons they're after aren't caught for arrest, they're found. That's more of a professional question. The Security Committee has not accepted this amendment. I wanted to ask my fellow MPs to consider this argument, and if they think it's possible to accept it that in the day of voting they do so. Let me finally say one thing that applied briefly to the previous amendment. I am personally opposed to what the minister has accepted, or the amendment to the G17, or whatever, of the SRS, because I think the Committee on the Security of the National Assembly is formatted on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and on the basis of a real composition that reflects the political will of parliament. The Security Committee is in a very legal and correct way whenever the need arises, in accordance with the law, carrying out parliamentary control. The amendment was accepted, it became an integral part of the law. It may, in a sense, make life difficult and complicated for the ministry itself, as well as for parliament. However, the parliamentary majority always has a mechanism to ask a question on the agenda in a session that is extraordinary or otherwise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's not about the denied majority who can always do it. The opposition has another problem with that, but let's see how this works. I believe that the Security Committee in this mandate has done this in a very correct way, in collaboration with the Ministry, by drawing strength from the Rules of Procedure and Power, in a good way. It's not exactly the Ministry of Police that needs to be discussed and reported very often. It should work in silence, in accordance with the law and have results. When I turn the press and today it says that the Ministry has arrested four great criminals in the last few days, then that means that there's something going on and I personally want it to be more and more often, and then we're going to get rid of it easily at the end of the year. I've always been able to empower the Defence and Security Committee before and give it even more power, because it's more operational and easier to function.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21676	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) At the same time, in order for there to be no ambiguity, there is no policy here, we are all interested in the issue of parliamentary security control. The amendment that had already been accepted on the Committee has been accepted, and in this regard it has become an integral part of the bill. There's no reason to manipulate that. That's the procedural reason. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21677	Mr. Markovic, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you don't have to explain it all to us after our debate with the minister, because I can imagine everything being you in life, but a police officer or a police minister, believe me, it's unimaginable to me. We'll handle it with the minister, and since you weren't on board, I'll just tell you that you're wrong. First you voted on Mr Jojic's amendment, such was the order, however, since counterpart Jaksic, a colleague from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, voted only for the amendment submitted by their parliamentary group, had not qualified the majority on the board to pass Jojic's amendment, and that is the only truth. As for my answer to you who's happy and who's unhappy, whether I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, you know, when it comes to the security of the state and the people, when it comes to co-operation, like the Sutanovac does with foreign agents, with the CIA, I'll always say it in the strictest words to stamp and to say that he's unhappy, that he's poor, poor and whatever you want. You know, someone who just looks at how to fill his pocket takes 24 personal income from the federal government, comes to the Serbian Parliament, and acts like that, and someone who, contrary to all democratic postulates, has taken up the post of president of the Defence and Security Committee, because the minister says that he has been replaced in such a way, and then on March 12th, on the day of the murder of Zoran Djindjic, sent hours before that to the Serbian Parliament of the Defence and Security Committee, invites the entire top of the MUP, Sreten Lukic, Banjca, I don't know who else, whether Dusan Mihajlovic was there, and he has no idea what happens in the country that day, and is being killed by the party president and prime minister. And to say that we are ignorant, that the minister doesn't know anything, and what he said, you have to discuss it with Jocic, I won't defend you from Sutanovac, but to say that the president of the Committee, Mr Mircic, can't qualify to do this job, my smallness, my colleague Jojic, Markovic, you know, someone who admits to school in America, Britain, at the Western Intelligence Service, and for that he's probably getting a big fee, the least I can say for that someone is that he's unhappy. I don't know at all, Mr. Markovic, and in the absence of that MP, that poor man, why you defend him and protect him when he doesn't respect parliament, and that's at all their attitude that will cost them dearly, because there's nothing other than those of the DS who attack Serbian radicals, and that's their whole policy left over after the robbery, crime, corruption and everything they're involved in and over their heads.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21678	Miss Jovanovic, if you'll excuse me, I must give you a warning, about the MPs of the Rules of Procedure, you must speak with dignity. What makes someone happy and unfortunate is his private business, and it is my duty to always warn them. So it's possible that everything you've listed is true and that makes the MP happy, that's all it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21679	Well, it's not possible, it makes him happy to get that many thousands of dollars, tens of thousands, then you're right, probably happy with such loaded pockets. Wherever he goes, whatever CIA register, British intelligence, these, those, get in there, they cash him out, yeah, he's happy about it. An unfortunate people who choose such a representative and vote for such. As for Article 12, you're not comfortable with this member, colleague Jocic, or Minister Jocic, and I tell my colleague, because we're used to you as an MP, for many years you've been with us here. It is not because this member of the 12th is intruding, especially with his position on 2nd, which, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is seeking to change and not only because of this, but rather because of what Predrag Markovic said, for both the general good and the society and the state. It is necessary to define itself better by Article 12. National and international standards of police conduct, so it is absolutely unnecessary, and I think this has been taken over from some other legislation, some other states, perhaps those with which Sutanovac is working so closely, especially this in his position in 2. I suggested that this proposed position of 2nd be deleted and that this first stay remain which says that "in performing police operations police adhere to national standards of police conduct, the requirements laid down by the laws and other regulations and acts of the Republic of Serbia, as well as international contracts and conventions adopted by the Republic of Serbia", or ratified by the National Community Assembly, etc. Now that you've written all of this in attitude one, I think it's completely unnecessary for you to take this wide, and especially with some of these interpretations, you go in attitude 2. I'm going to read this whole attitude that I think is unnecessary and that the better one that I've suggested, so let the MPs who aren't in the process decide and see in the day to vote. So, you said: "In carrying out police work according to the position of the 1st member, the police also adhere to international standards of police conduct (and all of this is already in paragraph 1, the ratified international contracts, to detail what it is), and in particular requires established international acts relating to: the duty to serve people; respect for the legality and control of illegality; the achievement of human rights; non-discrimination in the performance of police tasks; the restriction and abstention in the use of means of coercion; the prohibition of torture and the application of inhuman and humiliating procedures; the provision of assistance to victims; the obligation to protect confidential data; the obligation to refuse illegal orders and resistance to bribery, corruption. "I have replaced all this through an amendment with only one sentence in which it is all said, because the first attitude is very substantial, and I have suggested that instead a member of the law reads: "The police officer is obliged to take the necessary actions at any time to protect the lives and personal security of people and property." It refers in a literal sense to the word, as it is written, to the personal security of people and property, whether they are citizens of our country, whether they are holders of diplomatic status or those on the territory of our country and tourists are guests, so it is better to define a member of the 12th and it is more applicable, and there is no such thing as a broad interpretation where they can be led under this or by what they want. It is better to accept this amendment, because these very positions 2, 3, and 4 are deleted, because they are also on the trail, if this amendment were to be accepted, unnecessary, in the way that, as simple as this is said, but best, short and summed up, what is police business according to all standards, both national and international. I think it's much better to accept this amendment that I have submitted to Article 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21680	According to the same amendment, Mr Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21681	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Jovanovic really interpreted it beautifully and explained it, so it is too high here to convince the government and the government's representative, because I am convinced that there is room here and room for this Article 12 to be arranged as proposed by this amendment. In Article 12, you have five views. This is a heavy overload for one law. If we want to have one essential, crystal clear and good law, there is no need to introduce something in multiple places, to copy from one chapter, or from one provision to another provision to extend certain powers and certain jobs. What Miss Jovanovic said was true. You have in the position of the first of this article prescribed and all covered. So, in doing police work, police adhere to the national standards of police conduct (if we agree – I hope so), the requirements laid down by the laws and other regulations and acts of the Republic of Serbia (undisputed and that is enough), as well as the international contracts and conventions adopted by the Republic of Serbia, which have been ratified before and recently in the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, as well as those contracts ratified by the Republic of Serbia itself as a member. You have overwritten attitudes that absolutely do not improve, just burden the text of the law. Natasa Jovanovic suggested adding one position, as previously done in previous domestic affairs laws, from 1945 until today, a single norm is foreseen, and in parallel law. You will find in parallel law similar to what Miss Jovanovic suggested to add: "A police officer is obliged to take the necessary actions at any time to protect the lives and personal security of people and property." I think this article was supposed to find a place. That's why I think this amendment should be accepted as such, because it's actually more precise in this place, and it's the right place for police officers to do these jobs. Although some jobs will be repeated, but it's not so standardized. The police officer is also required when he is in the theatre, and at the game, and on vacation, and when he is free, and when he is out of work, to protect the property and security of the citizens and to take all necessary actions that need to be helped to prevent the execution of the crime or any harmful activity. That's why, if it's not installed here in this article, it remains an opportunity to choose a police officer to intervene tomorrow if someone attacks someone and threatens to murder or not, or to prevent the execution of a crime or not. I think this formulation has some touch points in other provisions, but it should be as precise as we suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21682	Anyone else on this amendment? The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21683	If this amendment remained, it would simply be repeated because what Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic suggested in Article 12 was also written in Article 13 of our proposal, which is that police officers at any time take the necessary actions to protect the lives and personal security of people and property. It exists. I must say that this law is written entirely atypical of the laws on internal affairs, which are sown in the republics of the former Yugoslavia, which are so simplified as to give the possibility of broad interpretation. When it comes to the MUP, when it comes to police and law enforcement, I do not stand at the view that everything should be simple and in one sentence, since only then is there a possibility of interpretation that can go a wide way. If we have to choose between the summary and the clarity, we've chosen clarity before. After all, this law will not only serve some people outside the system, but it will also serve the police, so that they simply see in one norm in one position everything that is the quintessence of all international conventions. It is a duty to serve people, respect for the lawfulness and control of illegality, the exercise of human rights, the non-discrimination in the execution of police tasks, the restriction and abstention in the use of means of coercion, the prohibition of torture and the application of inhumane humiliation procedures, the provision of assistance to victims, the obligation to protect confidential data, the obligation to reject illegal orders and resistance to bribery and corruption. I think this imagery in this attitude actually points to everything that the country has ratified and in one concept or in one explanation, the concept creates a ban and a restriction. So, in one place are indications of all the standards that have been incorporated into the international conventions that this country has adopted. I think it's better here, but it will prevent abuses and broad interpretation of this width than that the norm is completely summed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21684	This was an explanation of your attitude on the amendment. Replica, as incorrectly interpreted, Miss Natasa Jovanovic, but well, we're not going to take a break yet. I see there's been experience here from the previous summons, so we need to speak five to two, by the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21685	No, Mr. Markovic, I didn't take a break at all, and you took a break twice today. When I'm not in a hurry, wait a little longer. Look, Mr. Jocic, I don't think you're right and don't literally understand. The abuse of interpretation if it stands in one sentence, for a smart and reasonable man like all cops are, at the helm with you, I guess it's enough to write what to do and what to do in his jurisdiction. In article 10, you explained everything nicely. What are police business? And point 10 says - to carry out other tasks established by law and by sublegal acts. In Article 12, you say that's part of Article 13 of your bill. Great, then you don't need a member of the 13th or that attitude. But this is about national and international standards of police conduct. I understand that every cop, according to the standards established by us and everywhere in the normal world in every country, will act with security and responsibility if he is. He will not behave arrogantly, as in the case of the throw-off of Cimple, who allegedly wanted to assassinate, or his Irish setter on Boris Tadic, through a bank on a top-level star. No one normal will do that, push a car to a man and threaten his life, and the dog that was inside. Otherwise, the dog tried to execute the assassination. It's not a joke, it's really a joke. Everything's nice in Article 10, and that's why we didn't submit an amendment to Article 10, written down what police jobs are. The international standards ratified by our country are contained in Article 12(1), and I only asked that Article 2 be defined as being so brief and clear, because it is in the 10th wide and overexplained position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21686	There's no reason for envy. The president didn't take a break. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The name above Articles 20 and 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, the Legislative Committee of the Proposer and the Defence and Security Committee adopted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. That concludes the debate on the 21st Amendment. After an hour's break, we will move on to a debate on the amendment to Article 20 submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. Mr. Mircic, here you go, since it's a brief explanation, we contribute to efficiency, to do the more today. Do you know how much ironing I have left today?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21687	The amendment to this article concerns part of the chapter that defines the organisation of police, or police directorship. It's a new term, or new institution within the police force. This is something that these amendments, which the chairman also read, are more clearly defined as the authority and competence of the directorate, i.e. what the powers and responsibilities of the minister are when it comes to the functioning of this police department. I'm reading to you Article 20: "The police director's department is being run by a police director. Organisational units in the headquarters and district police administrations are managed by management chiefs and police stations - commanders". In his last position, he said, "The involvement of special units of police for special security tasks can only be done with the prior approval of the minister." The amendment intervenes in the sense that instead of the word "Minister" it is "Government". The minister is an authorized person who will control the recruitment of special forces on behalf of the government. What is the desire of Serbian radicals? To avoid everything that has been negative so far and how it has affected the work of the police. We had a situation, such as the Meljak case, such as many cases where special forces were involved, where the government could not bear responsibility because of the indefinity. The minister had, as a function, a responsibility arising from jurisdiction, but the minister had not issued a warrant at any time and had not writtenly addressed his associates, so we had a whole series of problems about the action, which would not have been the case if the government had been defined, as we suggest, and it is understood that it was the minister who was going to operate. It is clear that the government is behind every move by the minister. It will solve and prevent, possibly, some problems that have been evident in the past. We insist that instead of "Minister" being "Government", because it is special units, because they are both sensitive issues. When special forces are hired, then it should be taken into account how and how they engage. The minister, as a member of the government, is the most responsible, but in any case, the government should bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21688	The word is made by Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21689	The intensity is the same. Past times, however, have pointed to one possible and dangerous abuse, when these units could not engage those with the greatest responsibility. The intensity is exactly the same. And you, Mr. Mircic, have also said that the minister is responsible to the government, and the government is responsible to the Assembly, that is correct. In fact, the government runs a public security policy. The minister is the government's instrument for a particular area. However, there are reasons why they could not allow the adoption of the amendments, which is the operation, on the other hand, of the reasons for urgency. It's not every time the government gets together, it's supposed to react urgently, maybe it should react late, in the morning, and in the weather. What's one reason, these are the reasons for security. While the government sits down, while the government decides, while the stenographic notes are caught, it knows the big circle of the face, and perhaps the action is such that it will prevent for example. A terrorist attack. These are the reasons we've been led to be the minister who decides to hire special forces. So far, this is true, the engagement of special forces has been in the regular system of the Public Security Resor command, so it is possible, as has been happening in previous governments or the previous government, that the minister and does not know when these special units are engaged, with tasks and in tasks which, as a rule, are very risky and very dangerous. We think it's operational, fast and safer for the minister to agree that these special forces are engaged when it comes to these, however, rare cases.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21690	Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21691	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS considers that no minister in this government, so be of any party, should have the authority to be exclusively his discretionary right to order him to use units for special facts. It's about armed forces. It's not a voluntary fire company. These are special forces with armed forces, which need to be intervened in a narrow and wider area of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I was the commander in Kosovo in 1981, when famous and famous riots broke out. It was known then who made the decision that special units could be used. I was part of 10,000 police officers, who from all then republics participated in the repression of separatism and the rest seen in Kosovo and Metohija. I have a great experience in that. However, to give discretion to one man, I say and repeat again, was a minister from this party or that party, it would be devastating. The decision to raise the armed forces must be made by the government, the government must respond, and the interior minister must inform the Prime Minister of the events of narrow or wider proportions, where it is necessary for the unit to intervene. The government is meeting urgently, as in an emergency, under emergency circumstances, and is behind the decision being made by the Government, not an individual. That individual can make the wrong decision. So what do we do? He orders to use firearms on students, on strikers. What are we gonna do? The direct elder gives the order, by the minister received an order by telex or radio; this issue gives the order and what happens? The car's on fire, what's he gonna do, like in France. The French government decides. We can't act selectively. Therefore, you cannot give discretion to one man. I shouldn't accept that risk of giving consent to the use of special forces. Why don't we go back a little historically? Why don't we pay attention to what happened to the use of the Special Facts Unit - "Red Berets." Why is that not an example and a lesson that we can't let someone, or General Guri, who is now telephoning about how he commanded, what who did. That's pointless, that's unfair. I agree that the minister is issuing instructions at that time to implement that decision. Then it would be in agreement with the SRS's opinion and programme. The issue is extremely problematic and unacceptable for the SRS. We are surprised that the Democrats today propose such solutions in one law, that we can allow NGOs to find our first place in terms of co-operation with citizens, and without citizens there is no success in the service, not even in the former state security, or now the BIA. Therefore, I believe the minister is considering whether such a risk and responsibility will be accepted. What if they turn out to be harmful and dangerous consequences for people's lives -- someone uses firearms and kills 100 citizens. What do we do? Then the minister says, yes, I met the government, the government made a decision. But if the minister gives one consent and one opinion, and that opinion and that agreement is carried out, the adverse consequences arise, therefore, that is something our Constitution does not foresee, and neither international documents. Here's the case for France. And they have the Shiptars now. They saw thousands of cars fall to worse homes. But when they dropped bombs on Serbia, they enjoyed it. Here, they've got the Shiptars there too, so let them see how they can be reckoned. That's why the government and the President of the Republic of Shirak are sitting, issuing orders on how to deal with terrorists. I think it's very risky for the minister to accept such a responsibility and be exposed to unpleasantness tomorrow. It's our good intentions and it's not something that's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21692	Thank you for your brief presentation, Mr. Jojic. It was not called separatism in Kosovo at the time, it was called counter-revolutional action. The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21693	We didn't get along. This law comes from the concept that there is no more war and that the police are demilitarized. Therefore, there are only two special units to which this law applies and their number is not large. They only serve to choke individual cases; so they won't territorially - in a wider or narrow area to act; they won't act militaryly. The second thing, the events they're going to engage for are completely unpredictable. Two days ago, yesterday, there was the arrest of an escaped prisoner, a criminal who owned 10 kilos of explosives, 7 gallons, a number of weapons and a large amount of ammunition. Say, in that case, how would special forces be hired? Government? One's on the way, the other's at the symposium, the third's on vacation. All the time he's been operationally doing it is making a decision - now is the moment. You, Mr. Jojic, know what I'm talking about. They must mean they're hiring units. We've got five minutes of time. That's what I'm talking about. At one point you mentioned how the minister would take such responsibility, he could transfer it to the government. Then the government doesn't have to either, we can go with the resolution - let the parliament decide on the engagement of special units. If we go to that responsibility transfer system then we won't do the job, which is to protect the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21694	Thank you, Mr. Jocic. On behalf of Article 21 and Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 21 of the amendment by the Legislative Committee Representative and the Committee on Defence and Security, and I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. After a break of 15.15 hours, Parliament MP Petar Jojic will have the amendment to Article 21. Thank you. [[After break – 15,20]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We'll continue our afternoon work. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 21st amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21696	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, on behalf of our party's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 21(4), where I have suggested that the word "nine" be replaced by "ten". It's about choosing the director of the Directorate. For this high-ranking post, as is the police director for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, a person who claims to take this responsibility must have at least ten years of effective employment in police affairs. Given that this function is in the general's ranks, this candidate should have practically worked on all affairs in internal affairs, and it would have been desirable that he was even an officer, sector leader, assistant commander of the police station, deputy commander, commander, inspector, operative, that he was performing the tasks of combating classical and economic crime and that he had the assessments "particularly pointed out" in his work and, of course, to meet the specific conditions provided for by the law. It is an extremely responsible place, a place that requires an operative, a place that requires an expert, a place that requires years of experience, but a long-standing experience in police affairs. It would be preferable to be a man who's been doing business in internal affairs. The SRS believes that the Director of Police should be a person who meets these conditions and these criteria, because it is the only way to control the work of organisational units, its assistants, the Head of Secretariat, commanders, so the entire branched structure of police organisation units from the Republic to the municipality. In that sense, we think it is necessary not as it was proposed nine, but as it takes at least ten years. And at ten years of age, it would be enough for one operative to gain such experience and have such a weight that he can assume the responsibility of such a responsible service for the territory of a state. This has caused little doubt in the MPs, which was said for nine years. Why nine years, it usually goes at least ten or at least 15 years. Today I pointed out that this is a legion of specialities, and I would accept that there should be something beyond the State Administration Act if it is a police matter, but a specificity, because the circumstances and specificities of the service are important and it is necessary to respect it when it comes to the leadership of the Director of Police. That's why I think this amendment could only improve the text of the law. Respecting these criteria, which I assume the Ministry will respect, the criteria that are in this section regarding the selection of police directors. We didn't mind when he was head of the Public Security Service for the Republic of Serbia. We can set up a director, we've changed his name, we've done something formal, but we're not essentially changing things. Essentially, police in the territory of the Republic of Serbia will continue to prosecute thieves, deal with the lighting and detection of criminal offences, file criminal charges, continue to maintain public order and peace, provide property and the face of citizens and protect the constitutionally established order. What we have been instructed from the European Union to change, instead of the Commissioner, to name the Director -- you see, today I said that we get nothing, nothing significant or essential. We are ordered from Europe to comply with the laws, and among other things, we need to redefine the Police Act and coordinate it. It would be good if the European Union and the European Community did not lose sight of that our police have no status and have no material position as the countries of the European Union do. The European Union can ask us to meet certain criteria and to comply with some of our regulations only so much when it comes to the police if our officers have 1,000 euros in salary, as they have a thousand and a half or two thousand euros in Germany, France or Germany. When I mentioned something about the French case and the use of special units, I would give one correction to all of it. I'd say there's the incompetent Government of France to resolve international relations and not respect national minorities. The incompetent Government of France has allowed itself to have what it has. If she had resolved the issue of national minorities in her country, as Jean Marie Lepen pointed out, believe that France would not have what it has now. But France executes the orders of America, and that's the problem. America is on a different continent, and as far as it's concerned, it only sends orders and asks Europe to meet the conditions, and what is done in their country, only they know. No one can set foot in the U.S. area except there were cases like 9/11. That's what you can do, and it happened to them. We'll fight for the soul of those people who died, innocent people, but when it comes to special forces, if I were the Home Secretary, I wouldn't take responsibility to answer tomorrow if I used a special unit to intervene because the prisoner escaped from prison. The prisoner who escaped from prison is a case where regular police, police station, should intervene. What's needed here is one patrol or one department, but not now that the police station, with hundreds of people, is that I'm also engaged and fighting for the task force to lift. So that what happened the other day in Belgrade -- a man drove a car and went to the yellow light. He was stopped by a police officer and a passenger came out and said, "Please don't, man went to the yellow light." Actually, it was a woman. The cop says, you're three meters away, you're jeopardizing the safety of police officers, back three meters. We don't need cops like that. We don't need cops like that. When did a woman endanger the safety of a police officer, an assault on an official face with a three-foot remote control? They stopped two MPs, and the man explained, "Please, there are two drivers in front of me and behind me at a distance of five meters." He said--no, get away from the cop, attack on the official face. And he's calling an intervention unit, and there's a gendarme coming to intervene, because of a woman who said that a man had entered the yellow light. These are extreme cases. I don't think they're our cops. Our officers are professional and good, but they're not rewarded for what they do. That's the problem. That is why we Serbian radicals want to distract you, those who have instructed us to implement the EU directive, to implement EU orders, should say: yes, but gentlemen first to see if we have these conditions, whether our police have these salaries. We will comply with the laws, but under what conditions and when. We don't need to accept everything we're supposed to do on the side. Our police were in the world recognized, lit up the most serious crimes and discovered and discovered further. Our police are professional today, it's not the period 1945. Today in 2005, when we have high school, high school, high school, we have courses and our police will carry out successful jobs and tasks, but according to the police, we need to be more responsible. That's what the whole thing is about. Among other things, when a law is passed on to the police, the working-law relationship in this proposal is absolutely not well set up, it does not offer good solutions, it goes to the harm of workers and members of the interior and police services. We have to fight, and we don't need a finance minister to start with whether we have fat or skinny cows. The same archaic for everyone, and before his ministry there's as few cars and a rolling stock as possible, no one says tomorrow whether this one's opening a car fair.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21697	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21698	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, dear friends, we have repeatedly pointed out the need to amend certain members of this law. Some of our proposals were accepted by the minister, accepted by the government, and we expect it to be seen in the vote itself that it is possible to do so. We have sought in every member to tighten the conditions, or some kind of guarantee that those who come to the key places in our police in the most conscious, best possible way will be able to respond to that obligation. So we've been looking for a condition here for 10 instead of 9, for the simple reason that I don't know where you found that condition to be 9 years, only that someone else said 8 years six months and four days, so we know how and how it works. It's simple, if that function is in the general's ranks, then it's normal to have at least a decade of working police experience, because I think after that everyone can know who it is, how he worked until then, how and how he did his duty and no dilemmas can be. This is a small matter, and I see no reason why a minister or anyone in the National Assembly would not accept this amendment. Only if you're up to someone for a director who's nine years in the police force, so that one year represents some kind of problem, I don't know what else should make any difficulty. On the other hand, I have to say that it would be good and that is why I came out first of all, with all the respect for the debate and the minister who has been in the National Assembly all day, and all the MPs who are fighting for as good a law on police as possible, to say that many European parliaments, let's say Greek, went to an extraordinary session to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, have reached their conclusions. We had some kind of conversation with the authorities, agreed on how to fit in when Tadic returns from Israel, when everyone is here, talking about it being a week in principle, and we see that now some insist that it continues to be extended, so we ask if you think there is anything more important than the talks on Kosovo and Metohija, from the adoption of a resolution in the National Assembly and whether this delay is a sign that some are hesitating in their firm stance, some political party. We hope it isn't, and we expect that session as soon as possible. I said this for the simple reason that the National Assembly meeting is pointless unless we solve burning problems in Serbia. To pass laws on doping or anti-doping, I have no idea how to tell you, and I'm sure you don't know either, and that this is incomparably more important for each of us or for any of us than to discuss the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, making concrete conclusions, I think it's impossible. It is our duty to protect our country's territory, to protect our citizens, to protect our people, and I am quite certain and fully convinced that we do not have obligations from it. I'm afraid that the secret services of other countries have moved far away so that we have time to lose, that we are in a teat anyway, if we wait for the Albanians to come out on November 17th, and we only give our reaction to it after that, then we'll only have a problem and I don't think it would do any good to anyone in Serbia. That is why I call once again on those who did not turn some kind of informal conversation and agreement into a final agreement and to hold a session when it was due to be held, to schedule as soon as possible, and perhaps because of their vanity they do not want it in such a way, to schedule a session to bring a resolution and that everyone has to stick to it, not that some of the country's senior representatives are going to the talks, which with journalists, which, even with the representatives of the diplomatic court, even representatives of certain intelligence services, say they are for some other solutions. You know, Mr. Minister, who I'm thinking of, what it's about and what solutions it's about. Because of the public, we won't talk yet. So let us stop and schedule a session of the Assembly so that they are bound by the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are Serbia's territory and cannot rob us of that territory if we are unique, regardless of who the government is, who the opposition is. If we're not unique in that, then they'll take that territory from us without any trouble. To inform you, and after the EU demarcation, a meeting of Montenegro's leadership, the leadership of the Democratic Party of Socialists, has been held, and they have agreed to do whatever they can against Serbia and to go to a referendum at any cost. That's information from 36 hours ago. They don't care about the EU and everything else, they'll drive it all the way. It will serve them as additional pressure on Serbia at the time of the Kosovo and Metohija debate. So please, first of all, the president of the National Assembly, I hope this is what he's looking at if he's not here, and he's not, and he's calling Tadic and Kostunica, and they're agreeing to schedule a session. I guess we're not a problem for them, but at any point in the day and night, we can be the biggest party in Serbia, not because we want to listen to anyone, but because we want to come together to a position in the National Assembly that is best for our people and our country. If they don't want it, or one doesn't want it, or some others don't want it, it's better to say it right away, to see how and in what way to do it, but to do it to us at the moment when a miserable shopping list for trade in Kosovo and Metohija arrives, and I can already tell you at least three of the five items in the shopping list. I'm waiting for two more, so I'll let you know all five, and I already know three. I hope that they will not be accepted, and I hope that everyone will have a commitment, all the MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all the representatives of the state authorities, to guard our country's territory and to seriously oppose those who want to kidnap it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21699	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21700	So, I simply must, since part of the exposure that I have seen implies something that I am obliged to answer as president of the Assembly, just to clarify, so that the citizens don't get confused. No one can schedule a session except, in agreement with the heads of parliament, the president of the assembly. It is important that everyone who has spoken for this speaker, not only these days but also the previous ones, and this assembly is ready to discuss any act which, whichever motionor, any MP, whether the Government, whether or not the President, or anyone else, is clear, there is a law that proposes. There's no dispute here. But for the fourth time in this booth, we've heard that there's something that needs to be interrupted by law enforcement, and I'm asking everyone that we have an understanding. I may be a little old man, but I know, there are nice and difficult moments. Sometimes weddings, sometimes funerals. As literature says, you have happy and unhappy families, so they're all happy the same way, and the unhappy are different. In the state, you have responsible and irresponsible families. The responsible, whether it's a wedding, a funeral, they're preparing who's going to prepare, who's going to pay, what the future will be, how to prevent losses, how to prepare gains, and that's where everyone's competent, and it's not just the young and the groom that many think it is. I support all those who are responsible, and I include the ministers present, the representatives of the government, the MPs present, to do their job. The assembly, which we have just received, I hope as a confirmation, is ready to discuss in the law a session with the heads of parliament whenever the conditions are met. And that's the only way. Once again, please, we have agreed here together, the most important thing for Kosovo's fate is unity, solidarity, and then compromise. Once again, I ask for the understanding of all who are at heart of any of the two arguments that are on our side; whether sovereignty, the argument is on our side; whether human rights, which I see in international law, are starting to replace sovereignty, and there are arguments on our side. So, in order to preserve unity, let us not advancely call for responsibility and disunity, as long as we do not give everyone a chance. I believe in the responsibility of this congregation, and I do everything, and I hope that many of you, most of you, too, that we invite others to be responsible in terms of doing their job and there is no need for us to raise our tensions in advance. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21701	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21702	I have no idea what to say to Mr. Markovic, he's right from a business point of view and from a business angle. I apologize, Mr. Markovic, for thinking that something more important was in that moment for the state than the Rules of Procedure itself, but formally you are right. But I gotta tell you, you don't talk to idiots who don't know what's going on and how it's happening. As you know, I'm not going to say that we're better informed and that we know more, but we almost know the same, and some things may be a little bit more than the people in your party, and I'm not talking about personal talent or politics or anything, but I'm talking about information, but I'm not going to bother you about it, because I don't care about it, and I don't care about it, I don't care. You know that if it's such a big deal, the bosses at the highest level are being arranged and you know what it looks like. Of course, when it's over and that's when you're informed, so call the heads of the parliamentary groups, but so I don't crash your vanity in any way, I don't think of you, you're one respectable man and you do your job decently, much better than your predecessors, so I won't do it anyway. I'm just asking you, Mr. Markovic, to realize that when you warn on time, I'm just afraid, and I have in mind everything that's going on and everything that I know and everything that we can't tell the citizens to the end that our time is running out, not theirs. So, if our time expires and we have to make moves, and everything that we later draw, we'll be in teat, but we have to protect the state and it's much more important than all our differences, than all our political differences, than all our political conflicts. Citizens hope and expect that there is a way and an opportunity to do so. I'm trying to get you from this pay phone and some others to try not to give an opportunity to suddenly try to run some kind of different policy to do it, because the more time it takes, believe me, we're going to have more and more problems. Don't drag me by the tongue to tell you when some go to visit Russia and they get sick, where they go, because it would be scandalous, people's MPs would be fraternised, not ordinary people, to hear something like that, that the high officials of the state, the moment they visit Russia, the head hurts, and you know where they go, to the American military base, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21703	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21704	Article 101, let's respect the dignity of this house, there's no reason to talk about intelligence and vanity. Please, there's no reason, because the law is the same for everyone. We'll follow the law. Once again, it is important that there is a good political will, and I only pray, wise people don't have to answer everything, they can shut up, in the name of unity that we need, whatever individual vanity is saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21705	We're going back to the amendment debate. We're moving on to Article 30. Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21706	It is a terrible thing to listen to this, for who knows which way this debate is led with an explanation, always the chairman or president of the Assembly has given such arguments, since the 1990s, when Dragan Tomic chaired and to Markovic, it is some continuity when the president of the Assembly should defend those who are unable to bring out a platform on which to negotiate Kosovo and Metohija. We have no Serbian radicals ever a secret, a secret in the sense that we don't tell it to the public. For this reason, we insist on opening a debate on the platform as soon as possible, on a document relating to Kosovo and Metohija, so that the public can hear. What's so secret that he can't hear the public, and it's about Kosovo and Metohija? What must those living in Vojvodina not hear, as they prepare secession as Kosovo and Metohija? Although Mr Markovic received a compliment from my colleague, I still confirm that continuity continues, but I would like to interrupt, at least when it comes to the status of Kosovo and Metohija and the status of this country at all. What is the subject of the debate is the amendment submitted by Petar Jojic to Article 21, paragraph 4, which is that, as a necessary condition for the police director, instead of nine, ten years. I see no reason why this amendment would not be accepted, out of the simple fact that such a function is important to the police, the newly introduced function is significant, and this importance stems from its authority. In fact, it's a man who will operate the police. The minister is there as a political figure, using his legal powers he will give some guidance, instructions, plans, programmes, and all will be done by the director of the Directorate. Don't let the fact that the difference is only in a year of work, we burden the function of the future director of the Directorate. Don't be an individual. None of us will cause a problem if you already have an advance solution, so the man is missing a few months' work hours. It's out of your mind that someone's causing a problem. But don't stand there for nine years, nine years nowhere is standing up like a norm: it's either five or ten. Since it's a professional job, there's a need for experience, especially in these jobs that are directly related to the police. I don't think there's any reason not to accept the amendment. What's more important here, and it's missed, the truth is I have to confess to us Serbian radicals too, it's the term of director, a five-year term. The government appoints a director for five years. The government's mandate is four years, but it appoints a director for five years. The minister's term of office is four years, but the director is five years old. This is a solution I suppose imposed by the OSCE, not to speak the name of who's in front of the OSCE, but I suppose. To what end? With an explanation that this is a transitional period. But what problems can arise from that? If the government changes, the director of the police as a key figure in the operational functioning of the police remains, a new minister is coming. His term of office lasts five years. There's a problem. Here's an example, so you don't think I'm just giving these facts for reasons, here's an example of the Chief Inspector. One police institution that is very important, very important, has proved in recent times that it is not an adequate choice, not only of human beings, but of not being defined until the end, that it is not precise, that such a role as was predicted by the Chief Inspector is not now consistent with the functioning of the police and you see what political problems are. If we go to this analogy, what happens now if the director is appointed and the new minister arrives in the next term, he will have to change it. The whole dust will rise. You've seen how during your shift, besides the Minister, you've had personal experience, you've seen the dust, the media, and every other, rose when you had to suspend incompetent generals, when you had to correct, slightly speaking, the work of certain high-ranking officers. The entire political halabuka has risen, all with reason and with the aim of causing a political crisis, that it burdens the work of the MUP, and at least for one moment, you have witnessed it, no one found it appropriate, when I say no one, then I mean those who defended these incompetent officers, to say that it is because of the injuries of jobs and obligations they are doing, that it is because of the violation of discipline, that it is because of their incompetence. Imagine the director when the new government is changed. Even in such an area and in times like this, imagine when his vanity comes, if it comes to expression, and he starts to tell why the new government solves him before the end of the term of office of five years. It may not be bad in democratically more developed systems and countries, but we are at the beginning, especially this law introduces police democratisation. Don't be prisoners of what we're bringing now, so we don't have a solution. Don't pay any respects to us tomorrow, gentlemen, why you've adopted. If the government's mandate is four years, the director can be four years. We just missed the Serbian Radicals to react to this provision in amendment, and I mean what the amendment refers to is that there is no problem for the lawmaker to accept that change for ten years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21707	The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21708	When writing this law, we had to have a certain one in the Law on State Administration, and so is this initial proposal of nine years, which figures with all the officials, and also with the Assistant Minister in the Law on State Administration. However, on our proposal, the Ministry, the Legislative Committee has proposed that it should not be 10 but 15 years, so we are going in that direction, and then at 15 years of age we are going even more than your proposal. Six years from our original, of your five. Why five years? Why not a term of office this election? For the man who remains, I am now talking about full political pragmatism, and it is also a fruit of choosing the competition of a government, it remains that year, that he with a government shift does not feel that he is passing, but perhaps can prove himself. However, as far as his recall is concerned, the same procedure is easy. Also, if another political group comes, the second interior minister, he can call an immediate contest and put the new government in place. In principle, we will all agree that we are a society that slowly enters the democratic process and like any society that enters democratic processes, political struggles are also reflected on the tenants. It can't be brought with any recipe. Democracy has entered Serbia, I don't know what years, there are political parties, there is pluralism, and now everything is depolitical. It's not. But time must pass, generations must pass, we can say, for professionals in certain segments of social life and governance to stand. This is the solution now. I agree with this one year and we added another 15, and I think that, when we thought about it after this, we came to the conclusion that those people who now have 15 years of effective training in the police are fully mature in this sense, as MP Jojic was saying. If they'd gone through all the lines of work of command and management and come to that moment that's very important in the police as well as in the military, that nothing is unknown to them from police work. They also have so many years of maturity that they can command and manage. So we went even more than this now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21709	We're moving on to Article 30. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 46th amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21710	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the SRS believes that, when it comes to the powers of the police to call, bring, detain, demand for information, suspending cases and further powers, they must be in agreement, above all, with the Code of Criminal Procedure. In fact, Article 46 proposes conditions and means of calling for a conversation. "The persons established are presumed to have the notices necessary to carry out the police affairs referred to in Article 10(1) to (4) of this law may be invited to talk. The call must state the name, place and address of the organisation unit of the ministry, the reason, place and time of the call." Paragraph 3 continues: "When this is known before reference, the invitation, besides Serbian, is made up in another language and a letter in the official use of which the person is served. If this was not known, at the request of the person who responded to the call, the content of the call will be made available in that language. The person who refuses to give notice must not be called again for the same reason. A certificate is drawn up on the delivery carried out – a delivery note." Ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Criminal Procedure provides for the powers of members of the internal affairs authorities. They are incorporated into the head of the XVIII Code of Criminal Procedure, primarily from Article 222 until the conclusion of Article 240. That's exactly where the police's powers are determined. Among other things, these provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure provide that authorised officials of the MUP may invite citizens to collect information, the same as regarding calls and delivery. However, Article 226 provides that internal affairs authorities may call on citizens to collect information. The call must again indicate the reason for the call and the quality in which the citizen is called. "You can necessarily bring a person who did not respond to the call, only if it was warned in the invitation." As far as these powers are concerned, "intelligences from citizens must not be collected by force. An official note or record of a given notification will be read to the person who gave the notice." However, there is no such thing in this invitation. That person may make observations, as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been authorised by an official to enter into the official note or minutes. I quote only the provisions of Article 226. The Code of Criminal Procedure. "A copy of the official note or record of a given notification will be issued to the citizen if required. The citizen can again be called to collect information and circumstances, another crime or perpetrator, and to collect information about the same crime, it cannot be forced to bring again." Furthermore, the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article 226 of the norm: "When an authorised official of the MUP collects information from persons suspected of having committed a crime or taking action against that person in the pre-criminal procedure provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure, he may be called upon as a suspect. The call will warn the suspect that he has the right to take a lawyer. If an authorised official in the course of the collection of a notice assesses that the invited citizen may be considered a suspect, he shall be immediately informed of the work he is charged with and the grounds for his suspicions, of the right to take the defendant who will attend his further hearing, that he is not obliged to answer questions without counsel, and that, in the event of detention under Article 229. The Code of Criminal Procedure, in the light of the rights laid down in Article 5. The Code of Criminal Procedure and allow it to exercise the rights laid down in Article 228. The Code of Criminal Procedure. If a suspect in the presence of a lawyer agrees to testify, the internal affairs authority will listen to him under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. A hearing of a suspected authorised official will be notified by the MUP's competent state prosecutor, who can attend his hearing. The record of this hearing does not stand out from the file, so it serves as evidence of criminal proceedings. Following the approval of the investigating judge, authorised officials of the MUP may also collect information from the persons in custody, if necessary for the purpose of detecting other criminal offences and perpetrators. This notice will be collected in an institution in which the accused is held in custody, at a time determined by an investigative judge or president of a council, and in his presence or in the presence of a judge appointed by him. The gathering of information has the right to attend the defendant, if the prisoner so requests." Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS says there would be no jurisdiction, no conflict of jurisdiction, no disagreement between authorised officials and the investigating judge and the public prosecutor, the SRS has tabled an amendment, i.e. Mr. Zoran Krasic, but in any case, the law on police and the Code of Criminal Procedure must be synchronised. They must be in agreement. The problem is that in one way powers will be regulated in the law on police, and other powers in the Code of Criminal Procedure and we will have problems in applying. It won't be enforceable. In any case, here it was necessary to intervene to be agreed, that the call could be made in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is nevertheless one system law. If the powers of the police differ from the powers of the Code of Criminal Procedure, there will be great problems in practice. It is therefore necessary to separate the powers and in law on police law only to indicate that when calling on citizens authorised officials, that is, police officers to call, arrest and detain, they will comply with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21711	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21712	Ladies and gentlemen, this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to this extent kills parliamentary democracy, this so-called yours. The democratic Rules of Procedure, that's terrible. Why am I saying this? Because, thanks to such a Rules of Procedure, it is not possible for the MP here to talk about the subject he wants to talk about. I wanted to say a few sentences about the amendment to Article 21, and now I'm going to take advantage of the opportunity, before I comment on the amendment to Article 46, to say a few important things about the amendment to Article 21. First, when we looked at and analyzed this text of the law in the SRS parliamentary group, we had a serious debate just about Article 21 before fellow Jojic decided on this amendment. We've been thinking of working in several parts of this article, including a five-year period for the appointment of the Director of Police. It is not, as counterpart Mircic said, our failure, but knowingly we did not go with the amendment because we had already had an opportunity with the law on state administration and state officials to intervene on that five-year deadline for the appointment of various civil servants and officials, but it was clear to us that this was clearly an unchangeable position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that they had no intention of meeting such an amendment. For this reason we have not even written this amendment, but for the sake of illustration, I will ask Minister Jocic - imagine, Ministers, when you were appointed to the post, that this law was passed before, and that you were left in an amanet for five years by Baby Popovic, what would happen to you at your job. So we have to look at it to make it clear that they can't go through these things, no matter whose recommendations they are. Furthermore, in our thinking, we had a remark, you said indeterminately that the director should have a high level of expertise. We think we need to know which one's the tall expert preparing. I respect every gear, and one that's not tall, but it doesn't make sense to me that the Director of Police can be, say, agronomous. We didn't go to the amendment here, we didn't pee, we intervened where we thought it was really necessary. What is in the last sentence, the last line of the last position of Article 21, which says "results special conditions for the Director of Police as set out in Article 4(4) of this Law", is where you predict that the jobs of police officers are determined by the Minister by means of an act on internal planning and job systematization. So here you put quite a burden on yourself in your business. It's the specificity of Minister Kostunica's cabinet, somehow you all feel like you're supermen, so you think you can do more than you can, and that's not good. It is not good because it would be better to focus on what you really need to do within your work cycle, so it would certainly be better for both you and the ministry and for the citizens of Serbia, which is the ultimate goal. You said, on our amendment, that the future director should have 10 years of effective employment. Minister, I didn't realize if you accepted it for 15 years? Is that a change on the board, or is that your thinking? I didn't realize that when you were talking about those 15 years. Before this amendment was written and signed, we were thinking whether to propose 10 or 15 years, so we thought maybe it wouldn't be directed to the Director of the Police, although he's someone who's the level of general, he needs more internships for these jobs than judges of the Constitutional Court, since judges of the Constitutional Court should have 10 years of standing. That's our dilemma. Of course, we don't mind it being 15 years, but for nine years we've been suspicious, somehow we're just missing a picture. If you wanted to get rid of the Secretary-General of the government of Bozovic, who does not have those 9 years of work, you didn't have to do it this way. I completely consciously mentioned that king's rafts. We met yesterday at the Assembly building. He came in with three bodyguards, we waited in front of the elevator together, we got in the elevator, and one of those guys stayed in front of the elevator, I invited him in the elevator, I told him there were places for him, and Mr. "Glorious" said, "No, no, no, he should wait here." Imagine you general inspector waiting for a security guard outside the elevator in the National Assembly building. Whomever he fears in the People's congregation, and on the rafts he walks, and with the singers he paints every night. Unbelievable. You put him in the right jobs at the so-called level. federal states, or state communities, but journalists say and talk here in the lobby when Vlad Bozovic came to the Assembly, that he was coming to the DSS Parliament Club to beg and convince him to stay, when he is not the secretary general and when he is not there, to be the director of police. He's been told you're a young, perspective lawyer. You don't need the police anymore. Of course, it's a good thing he was told. (President: Time.) ) It is obviously a sign that time has passed for this amendment, a generous time, provided for by this restrictive and restrictive Rules of Procedure. Since I have made an amendment to Article 46, let me say that this amendment should be accepted at all costs. It is enough that one sentence in the explanation that this amendment is submitted to prevent in practice some new "Sabbe", and you ministers, like us, as well as most citizens in Serbia, well know what moves in the action "Sabbe" and what devastating consequences for many citizens have come from this action.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21713	Thank you. The word is Minister Jocic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21714	Just one brief review, in order to avoid confusion regarding this amendment to Article 21. It is an amendment to the Legislative Committee that came before the Security Committee's meeting and you probably didn't get to know it, or perhaps you didn't have time to read it. It precisely defines, more than in the basic text, what the Director of Police should meet. There will be no agronomics, as it is said to meet the general conditions, special conditions, that it has high school equipment, at least 15 years of effective police work and meets the conditions of a job provided for the police director. When more candidates meet the envisioned conditions, the candidate who has had the best results in performing police work will have the advantage. So it's a cop. As for this amendment, submitted by MP Jojic to Article 46, I must say, there is no concern that there will be a new "Sabre" because this proposed amendment provides for a specific administrative procedure conducted by the police. This is not a post-delictum procedure. This is a procedure where there is no crime at all, so the person is called in to give some notice. There is no presummation of the suspect at all. A person shall not be called upon to continue or not to be prosecuted in criminal proceedings. I must say that you have literally, as you have resented me, honourable Member Jojic, and so will I to you, you have prescribed from the 1-10 provision of the ZKP, with what you have inserted - the internal affairs authority. But we're not talking about criminal persecution, we're not talking about calling in the sense that a person can be prosecuted as a suspect, we're talking about, for example. about the call when certain information is to be provided, that these data have no criminal or procedural relevance, nor can they be applied for the purpose of possible persecution. For example. We're looking for a child - talk to the police, the child is lost, we simply invite neighbors, citizens, a teacher to tell us where they last saw the child, etc. So this is a specific administrative procedure. There's no way you can even yourself out with the procedure in the Criminal Procedure Act. Normally, all that you have stated is that strict and strict procedure that applies when certain conditions are met.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21715	Mr. Jojic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21716	In Article 46's position, it is proposed: "persons established are presumed to have the necessary information to carry out police duties". What does that mean? It is assumed that someone may give a notice, but he is called, in the call must be indicated in which capacity the person is called, whether he is a citizen, whether he is a suspect; secondly, if heard and taken from him, he must comply with the procedural criminal law. What will happen when an authorised official, or an authorised officer, invites Mark Markovic to say if he knows anything about the robbery that happened last night, because it is assumed that he can give the information and direct the police to the perpetrator or co-executor, and Marko Markovic says - so I don't know. He says what you don't know, sit down and write. What should I write, brother? Sit down and write. Marco sits for an hour and nothing. There's an operative coming in and he's asking, "Did you write?" He says I didn't, I don't have anything to write. You don't have anything to write, did you go to the Triglav bar last night? Oh, well, I did. And for holding this one while this one pocketed it. This guy's quiet, and he says, "Yes, he is." What's going on now? Now he's not a citizen, he's not a suspect, he doesn't have that property. He accused himself of being an accomplice. When it comes to calling, Mr. Minister, the appeal is in line with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is in line with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the detention of a person is in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure. That's what's dangerous. I'm telling you what happens in practice. It's nice to think of someone like that, but when certain actions are taken, you'll see when targeted observation comes, when you get to members who regulate the question of polygraphs. We'll get into a situation, call on a citizen to give notice and they tell him, sit on a polygraph. What am I gonna do on the polygraph, man, you didn't call me here as the defendant, tell me if I was guilty? Well, sit on a polygraph, let's ask you if you're telling the truth. We Serbian radicals for a good law to be passed, but to keep that law in line with the Constitution of legions generalis, since this is a legionis specialis, but at the same time to comply with the system law, which is the Code of Criminal Procedure. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, we will have great problems in applying these provisions. We'll be deluding ourselves with these provisions from our police officers who will abide by this law. I can bypass the Code of Criminal Procedure and there will be a problem with its application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21717	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21718	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, when a question is proposed in norm and Article 52, MP Bozidar Koprivica has suggested that the words "in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure" be added in Article 52 after the words of the defender. Again, we are people who want to obey the laws, especially the laws of the legions generalis, which means the Code of Criminal Procedure. When the defender is involved, it's already something that says we're going into pre-criminal proceedings. This is something to bear in mind, that this should be harmonised and synchronised with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it was best arranged by the Code of Criminal Procedure. I have to note that some of the objections and resistances that are related to our amendments I experienced in 2000 in the federal government, when I was resented for the reduction of the authority of members of the internal affairs authorities. We did not Serbian radicals to reduce when we wrote this law. We just wanted to bring the Code of Criminal Procedure into line with modern international legislation in 2000, when it comes to criminal law. We've been threatened with why we should be working towards the police, especially when there's been a limitation of time for detention and detention. I was personally threatened, if it were adopted that it was not good, why, etc., and we were still harmonizing it with European comparative law, so before democracy came and cut it into this country. The 12000 laws were harmonised before October 5th, many contracts were ratified, and many regulations are applied day and day, that it does not turn out now that in four and a half or five years we have brought thousands of laws into line, and that it only stems from the current set that is in power either in the Serbia-Montenegro community or in the case of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, from the previous period, Serbian radicals passed the most modern Code of Criminal Procedure written in 2000. That code is here. Even the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted this congregation unanimously recently, which means that we have worked on these two system laws for a year and a half. There's no law in a month. The law has even been done for a decade in some countries. Criminal legislation has been done for ten years by France or Germany. We believe that the question of defenders, when authorised officials, or police officers, take certain powers, should be brought into line with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure as a system law. I agree that here in the police law, certain powers, rights and obligations were to be specified, but at the same time, I would like to say that in this detail we lose the essence of normising, that this law for our police is easy to apply and that there is no conflict between jurisdiction between an investigative judge now and an authorized official. That's why Serbian radicals are trying to draw attention that our amendments can only improve the text. What I noticed today, and what I will never really accept, I noticed that amendments are accepted by the minority by political and party option, whether this party or that party suggested it. If I were a minister and I were a member of the government, that wouldn't have been my option. I would look equally at amendments and Democrats, and G17, and New Serbia, and the Civil League, but I would equally respect the good amendments invested by the SRS. We were in a dilemma when it was a matter of how many years of working experience there should be, what Mrs. Vervain Radet said, we agreed on it, and we had a dilemma about whether we were going for ten or 15 years. You see, the Director of Police will now be elected at the age of 15. Okay, that's what I'm up to, but we can't accept the view that we're doing it in accordance with the State Administration Act, where it's been said for nine years. I'll make an exception and that exception is effective. You don't have to stick to some paragraph like a drunk float. He can only have damage, but for a certain resistor. We've been thinking it takes 15 years, and I'm talking from personal experience that a 15-year-old cop can't be a police manager. That's what's decisive. It's crucial that a police officer must, what he did during his work, wintering, flying, in the rain and snow, perform a police duty, working and chasing chickens, bicycle thieves, pickpockets, cheaters, burglars, robbers, thugs, spies, spies. He's such a roasted cop, and it's a good thing the minister said yes. The Legislative Committee has intervened, but it is interesting to intervene when we have submitted the amendment and prescribed from our amendment that it has professional experience in internal affairs bodies, but now for 15 years. I was up for the option not to be 9 but to be 15, so we said whether or not to go to 10, let's cut it short. I think he's been in place 15 years. But that's the idea of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21719	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 53rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stevović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 54 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21720	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 54. The bill of law on police, by proposing to change so much as the word "two" in point 3 is replaced by "four". Paragraph 3 of Article 54 regulates the conduct of an authorised official who is required to postpone any further action within the next two hours until the arrival of a lawyer. However, we believe that the deadline for the lawyer's arrival is very short, that it should be extended to at least four hours. In practice, it's almost impossible to hire a lawyer on such short notice. If this is the way a nadal member stays, it would practically mean depriving the rights of defence, i.e. The engagement and involvement of a lawyer, which would be contrary to the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21721	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21722	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP of the SRS, Mr. Jovan Daja, has tabled an amendment to Article 54(3) to replace the word "two" with the word "four". The proposal of Article 54 norms that "an authorised official must postpone all further actions until a lawyer arrives and for the longest two hours since the person has been given the opportunity to inform the lawyer. An authorised official may retain a person or perform another action provided for by a law whose delay would disable or make it difficult to carry out the task. "When it comes to this provision of detention under the provisions of this law, we consider, and I know from practice, fellow Members of Parliament in the Assembly that the same opinion is that it is two hours to leave the citizen an opportunity to establish contact and to meet with the lawyer absolutely impossible. It could be if he's a neighbor's lawyer next door, even if he's at a shorter distance and if that lawyer has a police hearing, he's got experience, or maybe he's a privileged lawyer. Because free is what the Bar Association delivers to some secretaries a list of lawyers, so you'll see only privileged lawyers who get notice at night at one, two, three per call, says - come, hire you and that one. That's what you pay for, and the problem is that. That's what we have a big problem with abuse and corruption, where corruption lies. The law says, in order to deliver the Bar Association. You have lawyers who have not yet come to defend some persons on official duty unless that person is able to find himself a lawyer or choose him and suggest who to call for counsel. There's a big string. In the judiciary, it is also your biggest problem today when objections to the work of the judiciary and corruption, these are the trades between individual lawyers, judges and individual public prosecutors. It's always known who has his judge, who has his lawyer, how they manage to maintain that communication well, that some lawyers don't leave the office of some judges and the president of the courts, that these lawyers have such a pass that they turn out to be the best lawyers. On what grounds are the best lawyers when you have far more professional lawyers? There's Mr. George Mamula, the man has experience. I'm not inviting Mr. Mamul to say something that he and he are, but as an expert lawyer, and at the same time, he's in a position to appreciate and see some lawyers' passing. And at the same time to see the affirmative decisions of individual judges. What's going on, what's the blackest? You have a wife or husband, president of a council, husband or wife are lawyers, son-in-law is either a prosecutor or a deputy prosecutor, and you run an analysis, if I were a minister of justice, I'd run a detailed analysis. All the suspicious cases that come out of the judiciary, because only the judiciary said there was corruption. When there is corruption, the judiciary must resolve corruption in its ranks. As far as the police are concerned, I have a grudge on what grounds some lawyers have an advantage and a passover, and the others don't. That the Ministry can give an answer. The AKP has set the order, but the one that is never called in order will never be called in and that is the case. When it comes to detention and this application, I'll tell you that it's not possible, maybe in some cases it'll be possible to act like this and to realize that it's proposed in law, but in most cases you'll have that it's not possible, because a man is in special circumstances, he's deprived of his freedom. He wants a lawyer, let's say he lives in Smedereva and wants a lawyer from Belgrade, or he lives in Jagodina, and he wants a lawyer from Cacko. By the time he gets in touch with him, is it possible for the police to arrive within two hours so that they can access a statement, etc. It's a short deadline. I speak from practice. Not in my pocket or in my pocket, but I know they're gonna have citizens, Mr. Minister, a lot of trouble with this. They won't be able to exercise their right in time, and the whole point is that. It's short notice. In two hours, he can't do that. We think, come on in four hours, even if he's hiring him from Saturday, he can make it from Saturday in four hours to Vranj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21723	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) One well-intentioned note, and the amendments of Mr Krasic, Mr Koprivica and Mrs Radete were accepted, which you will hear later. The 59th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Here you go. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21724	It's nice, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, that we're in a hurry to this Europe, and it's nice to propose this law by rushing to Europe, so in the area of his work he's looking at police films, it's nice, but it doesn't say it in his job description. Article 59(1) of the amendment states: "A authorised official may request notice from a person in order to prevent or detect criminal offences or offences, or their perpetrators. "The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica requests that behind the words "the perpetrators" be placed stuck and the words "in line with the powers of the Code of Criminal Procedure" be added. It's very simple, in the Code of Criminal Procedure, that part is absolutely described, and I think that by adopting this amendment, it's just completeing this law and then it's really going to be applicable. You know, in those movies that I was talking about, every cop has two or three men on the street, and then bring him in for one crime, so he asks him about the others, who he is, what he does, and then he collects the information. I don't think our police need it. Otherwise, this amendment is in line with Article 46. You know we've also had an amendment to Article 46, which is about inviting a person to an informative conversation, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the People's proverb says, "Whom a snake bites and a lizard fears." This state had an accident to find Natasa Micic at one point in the wrong place and to introduce a state of emergency, which had, after the suspension for some time, all the repercusions that were in emergency, except for a few, for all those brought in, and after the state of emergency, applied, and therefore this law should be limited to the clauses of the Criminal Procedure Act. I think then this law will be both better and more applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21725	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Secretary just mentioned Article 10 when they were in charge of the invitation. I'd like to coordinate Article 10, and I'd like to connect him to Article 59. In Article 10, which is police business, there is security protection of property, prevention, detection, lighting of criminal acts, violations and other delicacies. Let us now return to the proposed amendment to Article 59, submitted by MP Bozidar Koprivica, who was commented and defended earlier by our MP, longtime expert and lawyer Momir Markovic. I can tell you that a lot of things here are problematic, and here's why. If it's about asking for a notice, we're going to face certain facts again that will apply to the police affairs of Article 10, because if they're asking that person for information about a drug dealer, here's an example. The drug dealer, Sima Petrovic, some Marko Markovic, is called on to inform whether he knows anything about a crime committed by an authorised official, or police officer. Please, what happens next, or in practice what happens, which is very dangerous. That person will be questioned and threatened here to give a statement and to provide a notice, because under the provisions of Article 59, an authorised official may request face notifications in order to prevent and detect criminal offences or offences or their perpetrators. However, please, we will return again and remind you of what will happen in practice. He'll be invited to say something about Mark. Marco's a drug dealer. They're asking Janko if you know Mark. He says, I know. So you tell me where you met him now. He says I met him in Belgrade at the Terrace. And how you got in touch with him. And he says, he stopped me, we knew each other from before, but he told me he'd sit in my car. He sat in his car and threw drugs under the seat. He goes to the police and says, please, yes, it's true, I was driving Mark. Where did you take him? He says from that direction to that direction. And the police, as usual, are listening, because this is from Ceća and Rankovic when it was listening, especially that 1966 affair, when the personnel were Serbianly removed from the DB and from the executive posts at the Federal Secretariat, the Republic and local level. Tell me where your car is. And he says, "Here he is in the parking lot." They search the car and find it in Jank's car. Now what? Janku handcuffed and in custody. As long as he proves he's got the drugs in him, you know how much it is. I had a man who spent six months in prison just because he was planted with drugs in the seat behind his dressing room. And in the end, it turns out, man has nothing to do with it. But it's been six months, and the man was in custody. There are major problems in practice, and I know that the police have good intentions and should react, reveal and shed light and take measures, but it should not be allowed to make any mistake, because a mistake can be made in relation to anything, and to any material damage or to the harm of any other organ, but it must not be at the expense of the citizens, the suspect or the accused. If he tells all this, he accuses himself and he will find himself behind bars. There's a lot going on in practice. Second, he says, his drugs were taken, it's a drug dealer. Yes, the art. What about when the warlocks? They say M.O.P., and it's okay, and let's see that skill, super-skilling. The defendant's asking for a super-skiller. Please, it's not drugs, it's flour, and the man spends a year in custody. I'd just be a supporter to prevent certain failures and irregularities. And the law needs to be passed, the police need to take certain measures to combat crime, and it certainly needs to be welcomed, and it needs to be helped to act effectively. That's why we are in favour of this amendment and we suggest that the minister adopt it, because four hours is a reasonable time and something that is objective and realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21727	Thank you, Mr. Jojic, for these clear examples. Please, Mr. Markovic and I are twitching, give another example next time, Mira Mircic or something. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21728	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I move on to the amendment to Article 70, I would just like to go back to Article 68 and ask the minister, last time I asked him, here and in this law there was and in that previous law it was, the police were authorized to publicate a reward for a given notice working, etc. You know that the president of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, at the predicate's appointment, Minister Mihajlovic, did not cloud his views, however, for three cases complete documentation was given. Both to us, i.e. the SRS president, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, the interior ministry owes 900,000 marks and 450,000 euros, respectively. Look at the debt, it's a shame that one so strong ministry owes such small money; for you little ones, and for whoever earned it it's a solid sum. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has tabled an amendment to Article 70 and is asking for an erasure of the 70th. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia and to this few MPs from the ruling furniture and MPs from the SRS, we will read the article. He says this: "A authorised official may, at the request or with the consent of the person asking him to apply a polygraph interrogation, after introducing him to the work of the device and the person to give written consent. An authorised official will suspend the application of a polygraph survey, etc." "Polygraphic testing cannot be subjected to etc." An authorised official of the MUP cannot apply a polygraph test measure, as this would be contrary to the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure over the person asking for notifications, as this would constitute a harsh violation of the Constitution and of Articles 220 and 226. The law on criminal proceedings. So I think this member should be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21729	National MP Petar Jojic, then Mr. Veselinović, if there is any time left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21730	Ladies and gentlemen, MP Markovic explained before the SRS the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic. When it comes to Article 70, a polygraph test, this is an institute that is very ticklish, sensitive and in practice can be misused. I understand that the investigating judge can, on a reasoned proposal from the public prosecutor, as provided for in Article 229, Article 226, Article 227, as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure when it comes to polygraphs. What are the effects of the polygraph? You call on a citizen to give notice, but you bring him in and you bring him into an unusual situation. You're asking him for a notice, but you're telling him, yes, but we'd like you to go to the polygraph, so do you agree? The man is in a dilemma, found. He never had anything to do with the police or the contacts. He says, "Why should I go to a polygraph?" Yeah, you're going for a polygraph. And what's going to happen, what's the polygraph going to show? A polygraph is an untrustworthy tool. Secondly, a polygraph cannot be used in criminal proceedings. That's one thing. Which we citizens are now exposed to. I would like to agree that the suspect, or accused of whom there is fat evidence, but incontrovertible evidence, there are arguments, there is written evidence, other material evidence that confirms it. Then I'd agree, let him go for a checkup, see if he'll be correct to the court or the members of the internal affairs. Now that we're predicting that we put someone on a polygraph and we're looking for his consent, and that he's a little bit trained by some lawyer and he's saying, "You don't have to go on a polygraph, "fence the application of the polygraph measures." Not everyone knows that. That's what people who are verifiable, who may have had more frequent contacts with the police, out of habit, repeaters. However, when it comes to this measure, as a lawyer, I do not see its purpose. Em can't be used as a means of proof in criminal proceedings, we're putting a lot of harassment and pressure on citizens. We're putting him in a position where he doesn't know how to handle a specific case. Is it one hour at night, two hours at night, three now, is he detained, has he been detained? What time period does it take, what condition is it in? There's something here that's good, which is predicted in which cases a polygraph can't be used. In my opinion, this won't give you any desired results. This is shooting you from an empty rifle and a small-caliber one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21731	Minister Jocic, then MP Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21732	The most dangerous grains are small-caliber grains, the hunters know that. I would agree that the amendment read not only this way to delete itself, but to say that a polygraph should not be used. That would be a better solution. I have to say that we have situations to solve, and we don't have any material fact that only through other evidence, which is not material evidence, we can come to the truth. We don't have any material evidence, we only have human statements, and we need to determine what happened. What's a polygraph? Polygraph is one machine that measures the pulse, the amount of certain ingredients in the blood, sweat, all of how a person reacts in an unusual position or in an unusual question. One machine that measures reactions as the organism reacts based on the questionnaire that the polygraph, or psychologist, makes. Racio of these provisions, that is, these standards, was that everything the police were doing was normalized and rounded up in law. The principle of legality. I'm saying a polygraph can and would be used if it wasn't in the law. A man would simply agree, those who don't know, would have agreed to a polygraph on their own initiative, only to take the burden off themselves and prove, believing that machine, if they hadn't stolen, they weren't lying or telling the truth. So if it already exists, and it exists in all the police, then it's better to standardize it. It is legally stated that what is obtained on the polygraph is not evidence and cannot be used in criminal proceedings. Article 226. The law on criminal proceedings states that only the record of the hearing is relevant. That's where we agree. However, when there is a let us standardize it, let's see how it applies. It says here in Section 1: "A authorised official may, at the request or with the consent of the person asking for notice, apply a polygraph interrogation above him." So, on request and with consent. We have another circumstance -- that it can be interrupted in any course of the course of the polygraph test, when the person asks for it. It's just that there's no danger that what you get from the polygraph is misused. What do you get with a polygraph? The polygraph only gets one indication, which is only a fifth of the time to determine one fact. So maybe a shorter path to finding out about the fact that, or with other facts, it's the basis for something that we're going to continue to process things. So you might think that you've submitted the amendment that it's even forbidden to use a polygraph better than to delete, because I'm saying, and to delete this, the polygraph will be used. You have privates today who hold certain agencies that supply a private polygraph, so people agree to be tested etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21733	First the replicas, then the sequel to the amendment. Mr. Jojic, here's a replica to the presentation of Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21734	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, a question for you -- which of the police inspectors is an expert in medicine, surgery, neurology, psychology, etc.? Who will determine at that moment what you were talking about. It's true that it can only be one indication, but an indication that brings nothing. Score equals zero. He can point to some indication, but he can point to even the wrong indication. You heard what Vladan Batic said. It is said here that the polygraph has determined something to his harm, and he says it is not true, they haven't given him a polygraph, he wants to publish tests and tests, etc., but I'm not going into it. Polygraphic testing cannot be subjected to a face that is under the influence of alcohol. I can understand that and accept it. He can feel it. But what intensity, was it 0.5 or 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, when it comes to the amount of alcohol in the blood. As a doctor, an expert, Mr. Ambassador from the DSS could help us. He says, "Faces under intoxicating drugs." I don't know this expert, he never showed up, and I don't think a police officer would take the responsibility to declare himself an expert in determining who's under the influence of drugs, who isn't. That's one thing. Second, "faces that have serious heart disease or respiratory disorders." I don't understand how at this point a doctor will be provided to determine, to determine an operative or to determine an expert. "Faces in a stressful state." Someone can turn red, someone can get upset, someone can get nervous, first time they get in front of the police, his pressure rises to 150 lower, upper 200. It'll be for someone maybe, not for you, because you know the right, Minister, but for someone who's not a lawyer, he'll accept it, here's a polygraph showed, I have indications and not only will the test be applied, now we need to see if we're keeping it. Further, "faces that show visible signs of mental disorder or disease". Who's to say? It can't be determined by an operational police officer. He's not an expert. He's an expert on the legal or criminal side, because he's trained to reveal and shed light on the crime, but he's not able to determine these essential facts that experts-doctors determine. That's the problem. (President:Time. ) It is true, but it is the same: forbid polygraph or delete. You can now, because it's an amendment to the SRS, to say -- if you had just said that a polygraph is being banned, then you would have accepted me, but if we were to show that Article 70 is being deleted, that's the same thing. I see you've come to understand that what's proposed in practice has no results.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21735	First, Minister Dragan Jocic, then MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21736	Short, but without a replica, Ambassador Jojic. We're here in a similar position around two professions. You have a problem, just like I had. You're speaking from a legal point of view here. You were a cop, you worked with the police, and you know it, but now you're a lawyer. That was also a problem with some of my colleagues. Now the lawyer's position is at stake in criticizing the law. If I wasn't at this job right now, if I were a lawyer, I'd act the same way. Believe that the police have very few instruments to find out anything. A polygraph can also be compared to the tactics of having an informative conversation. And he can't bring anything. But it's the same. These are the ways we try to get close to the fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21737	Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21738	Mr. Minister, when you call a man in November 29th or a police station, he has to get excited, the adrenaline jumps, the results that that polygraph of yours can never be true, of course, with someone with a sense of honor, dignity, etc. It's wrong of you to attach Vladan Batic to a polygraph in the first place. He was able to match the machine. The man who arrested 12,000 people, who asked for the death penalty to be lifted in Sabrelja for 15 minutes, to finish his job as a minister of justice, the man who had a fight with his neighbor around the border four or five months ago, turned the car around, and the official car you gave him, with security to guard him, then you took his car, turned the car upside down, ran over by a neighbor and a neighbor stuck for a month at the hospital, and then he was wearing crutches for another two or three months. Do not treat Batić and his like, even a polygraph test. A polygraph, like a machine, as a means, will never, if you talk to those you have brought in, if you submit them to this, give the right results. A lot of randomity can be read from that tape that comes out of the polygraph. That's why I agree with you, so I suggest that you propose an amendment, and we adopt it, that the polygraph examination be abolished.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21739	I didn't understand the basis for the replica, but thank you for keeping your word when it comes to time. Now we're going on about the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Petar Jojic, in his second address very professionally and comprehensively explained the essence of the amendments to Article 70 and the reasons for deleting the members. He took the words out of my mouth about what he was saying, because personally, as a man, during several mobilizations at Serbia's MUP, I once attended this polygraph survey of several damaged or suspected persons. The point of all of this is to see which one is the authorized person who can conduct an examination on the polygraph. That's the main problem here that isn't defined by this article 70. It's called an authorized face. It could be some guy with a higher school, a DIF, higher music or higher technical, etc. During my presence in the defendants' trials, I believe that this team was brought in from the King's 1990s, the interrogators were, for example, a man with a higher technical school and some Difovac with a higher school for physical education. They brought in a husband and wife who had been robbed of a store, a store, and several suspects. They've been asked a few questions, I'll say two or three. They weren't meant to find the real thief and the criminal, but they realized that it was the one who had his own store, that he did it in conjunction with them. Among other questions, they said -- yes, we saw each other a few nights ago in that restaurant, and you sat with that and that lady. He reacted immediately because his wife was there, so it turned out after that interrogation that he was guilty and involved after a polygraph study. So that after a while, that thief, the criminal, after the second robbery and burglary of the next place, would confess to that crime. So this machine, which you call a polygraph, has no purpose in questioning, nor is it any evidence whatsoever. Let the private agencies deal with it. Those who are not satisfied with the investigation provided for by the Criminal Code and the Law on the Police should go to private agencies and do a polygraph, bring it in, if it's due in court or anywhere. We don't think, above all, that our MUP is equipped and trained with human resources that can evaluate when a polygraph test is required, how credible it is, and whether this person is capable of being subjected to a polygraph study at a given time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21741	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Thank you. Member of the 83rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go, Mr. Jojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister Jocic, the SRS has tabled an amendment, i.e. National MP Zoran Krasic, as member of 83rd and suggested that this member be deleted. Namely, above article 83, the title reads: "Measures of the target search", entitled "conditions, competences to decide and how to apply the target search measure". The first position states: "For the purposes of the capture and detention of the competent authority of persons suspected of having committed a criminal offence which is legally prescribed for a prison of four or more years and for whom an international arrest warrant has been ordered, and in the event that officers are unable to catch and bring that person into custody by other measures, or where this would be linked to disproportionate difficulties, measures may be taken by means of a special investigation technique established by law governing criminal proceedings (hereinafter: targeted search measures) in the process and in the manner provided for in this Article. The measures targeted, on a proposal from the Director of Police, are approved by the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia, or by the judge of that court, who has been designated to decide on the absence of the President of the Court (hereinafter: authorised judge), within 72 hours of the submission of the proposal. The proposal and decision referred to in Article 2 shall be made in writing. The proposal contains data and facts which are important for deciding how to apply the target search measure." Furthermore, in this article, Article 4 states: "The approved measures can be applied for a maximum period of six months, and on the basis of a new proposal, they can be extended once more for six months. In the event of a failure to accept the proposal, the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, or an authorised judge, clarifies the reasons for the refusal. "Stage 6 says: "When the reasons for urgency require this, targeted search measures can be imposed by the Director of Police with prior written consent to begin applying the appropriate measures of the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, or by an authorised judge. In this case, a written proposal for the application of appropriate measures shall be submitted within 24 hours of receipt of oral consent." Paragraph 7 states: "The decision to continue to apply the appropriate measures, i.e. to suspend them, shall be taken within 72 hours of the submission of the proposal. The decision to suspend the appropriate measures must be written in writing. Data collected by targeted search measures cannot be used as evidence in criminal proceedings. The data are sent to the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, or to the authorised judge, who is obliged to destroy them and make up the minutes after the end of the search." In accordance with these measures, as provided for by the Code of Criminal Procedure in Article 232: "The investigative judge, on a written and reasoned proposal by the State Prosecutor, may order the monitoring and recording of telephone and other conversations or communication by other technical means and optical recording of persons who are suspected of committing crimes themselves or with others". Let me remind you, in the making of the Code of Criminal Procedure, I was personally involved in writing this article because of earlier abuses in listening. Knowing what abuses were once committed, I suggested that they be reduced to the least possible extent, in which case: if it is crimes against constitutional arrangements or security of the SRJ, it is now the state union, or the Republic of Serbia; against humanity and international law; thirdly, with an element of organised crime; counterfeiting and money laundering; unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicated drugs; illicit trafficking in arms, ammunition or explosive material; trafficking in human beings; giving and receiving bribes; extortion and kidnapping. When we predicted that it would enter the code, which was passed in this article: "Measures can last for the longest three months". According to this, the measurements can take six months. Is this in agreement? It is not with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure; they differ significantly. The targeted protection measures are not laid down for specific offences, such as those laid down in Article 232. The Code of Criminal Procedure is standardized. According to this, there are no restrictions, it's not clear that it's for the most serious crimes. Furthermore, it is said here that it will be in accordance with Article 232. The Code of Criminal Procedure, and then this article would fit with this article in the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, the application of this bill is unlimited. It can be widely interpreted, in broad application. That's inadmissible, absolutely. This provision of Article 83 must be deleted because it is in conflict with the system law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that is the big problem. What do we do now? Once again, when it comes to application, one method will be applied and decided by the police in agreement with the President of the Supreme Court, and when we did the Code of Criminal Procedure, I went to it not to be the President of the Supreme Court but to the investigative judge, on a reasoned proposal from the State Prosecutor. You know why? The President of the Supreme Court, no matter who it is, can be pressured by the government, can influence him. When the Director of Police assesses that someone needs to be followed by a listening, monitoring, recording, photography and other measures, it is easy to abuse it at government level, there may be an overrun. But then we had in mind the following -- it is not easy to influence a thousand investigative judges in Serbia. It's not easy to influence all thousands. You had it in Sabre, I believe you have evidence in which secretariat and in which court, which the judge was making solutions for listening to which faces. You'll see that some judges refused and didn't want to, and then the President of the courts ignored them, even threatened them with a resolution, but some also signed a blanco that everyone would listen to. So these measures are very sensitive. If we want to have democracy and a democratic state, please let our Code of Criminal Procedure and the law on police prove it in practice and formally in law. There is no problem in applying these measures as prescribed by Article 232. The Code of Criminal Procedure, it is necessary, especially in the case of organised crime. The police need this, but don't let the police take responsibility for their own shoulders, let them get involved in a reasoned motion by the state's attorney. The investigating judge brings a solution, submits a solution to the application of the measures to the police, applies the measure, gives a limit, reads, listeners and regularly delivers evidence that has occurred, surrenders itself to the investigating judge, an investigative judge with a larger court of law assesses whether it is useful or not, and whether it is sufficient as evidence or not. It's necessary, but not as it predicts this bill of law on police, because it's contrary to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Now we're going to have a case that operatives are going to come across with investigative judges and prosecutors in conflict, and they won't be able to have a common position, because an investigative judge or prosecutor is going to say: I don't want to talk to you, you've applied a measure of police law, and I don't admit it, I just want that measure provided by the Code of Criminal Procedure as a system law. So there would be no new Sabre, and you know the consequences of this country, so that there would be no listening, as it was in 1966, when there was police reform at that time, let's make it impossible for anyone, anyone, that the minister, from any party, should not accept it. Mr. Minister, this law should be passed and lasted for tens of years. If we coordinate it in the secondary segments to satisfy the EU's form, let's do it, let's not say we didn't do it, but let's not do something that could be harmful to the citizens, that's the problem and to prevent abuses in practice. We have enough provisions in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Whoever gets away in this area from the Code of Criminal Procedure and from the Constitution, everything is insecure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21743	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21744	This law should last, but the police should work as well. It simply shouldn't be a prisoner of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Second, it doesn't say anywhere that the Criminal Procedure Act is systematic without this being a system law. They're completely two laws of the same importance. However, the essence of these measures is quite different. The essence of these measures is to allow the police to be effective, internationally cooperative, and this is not what the EU wrote. No one on the side wrote this law, this norm, this was written by police practice, which has been in one seal since the law on criminal proceedings was passed. In an effort to narrow it down completely, a phobia has come to the point that nothing can be proved in this country. These provisions are provisions that represent hunting for a man, not processing, hunting for criminals, not processing criminally. We have several cumulative conditions, so it's an international arrest warrant, it's wanted, it's been threatened for more than four years, and we can't take other measures to catch it or it's linked to disproportionate difficulties. As for the procedure of giving these measures, it is similar to the BIA Act. You have someone who has an international APB on the border of Albania and Serbia, who uses our 064 network that's being heard here and how you're going to help your colleagues, for example that it's Hungary -- you have no legal basis to tell your fellow officers that he's in our telecommunications system and that he's preparing a terrorist attack there, as well as a thousand other things. This isn't made up. This is a full police measure, police treatment and a police emergency that is normalized by this law. I'm saying again, let's not compromise everything, the CAP is not a sacred letter, it's a sacred letter in the sense that a man should be processed and sanctioned. However, these were aided by the police craftsman. If I were to adopt all the amendments that were, the police could simply stand, so if a criminal ran into her by accident, she could catch him, otherwise it wouldn't be possible to work any other way. I'm telling you this will be a great relief, that there will be no overruns and that the police will work much easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21745	Thanks for the heads-up. A five-minute recess while the consultations are being held, and then we'll continue the debate. Thank you. [[After break – 17.35]] Part of the consultation was carried out. Unfortunately, the representative of the amendment's proposal, which is a kind of explanation in relation to the argument made in the notification provided by the minister and the discussion previously given by MP Petar Jojic, has now concluded the discussion on the amendment. We're continuing our work. Are we staying with the replica on the notice? No, I don't. Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Member of the 100th Amendment was submitted by MP Rajko Baralic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21747	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, in the draft of this law, to our great surprise, have not offered the right solution when it comes to the employment relations of members of the Ministry of the Interior. I must say again, honestly, that I have a great deal of experience when it comes to the functioning and work of the Ministry of the Interior, I know the torments and difficulties of members of the police working under very difficult conditions, doing jobs in this country and for the benefit of this country, which no service in our country is. The SRS believes that from a political point of view and from a aspect of protection, the rights of members of the Internal Affairs Authority must be defined so as not to affect its constitutional and legal rights. In fact, at 7th point, security checks on that face do not indicate any security disturbances. The problem is great in practice when someone submits or applies to be admitted to police service. They used to be called Home Office Secretaries. These checks as security disorders can often be misused. How? Whoever applied submitted the relevant documents with a request for police entry, the elder of that authority determines the checks, to carry out thorough checks on the person, from where he was born, where he was born. During these checks, operational records by the Ministry of the Interior shall be used. In that case, it is easy to determine whether it has been criminally punished and if it has been criminally punished for any offence, whether it is a traffic violation or a public order and peace violation, or if it is an offence committed 10 years ago, or if it is a disturbance. We can go further into criminal records, and the criminal record, which is governed by the MUP by law, is easily seen whether or not he is going through criminal records and if he is going through what crime. In this case, it can easily be determined that it could not be accepted into the service of home affairs. However, what I do know from the practice of how these checks were carried out, if there is a more modern, more perfect system of checks, and I think it's a classic check, almost in the same way as 20 or 30 years ago, there may be a lack of accuracy and misinformation by a person appointed by an elder of the authority to carry out operational checks for that person. The O.R.'s on the ground. He's been asking around the locals about that person, asking around the informants, through an operational connection, if there's a possibility of getting real, but accurate data on that person. When you come to check someone in the building, where they live 30 or more tenants or they live two or three, and they have a common yard, and they've been tried around the common yard, about the arrangement of the border, or this chick has moved into his yard, and his cat into that yard, and they've even had a fight at the border, if the operative who's doing the facial check came across such an associate, or such a person who needs to provide the information, believe that one never, and to be the most frequent, will not be able to get a positive check because there is malicious information and incorrect information about the person that needs to compete. Therefore, the SRS believes that, if possible, and I know that it is not possible to do so in another way, but only because citizens know each other. What about those who compete from Belgrade to Vranje or in Chatin, no one knows him there. Belgrade is being investigated, an investigative judge is being asked whether a criminal case is being conducted against him, a district court, is being sought on the ground. To see an interesting case. An operative in Belgrade, you know how interested he is to give a full check for those who apply from Uzic. It's going to be one wrong check. He's going to say there's no problem, he's come up with information that it's about an honest and honest man. He was admitted to the service and turned out later that he should not have been admitted to the MUP operative. I'm speaking from practice, for 25 years I've had a chance to look at it practically. We took people, we fired people, people went away, we came, but we met up with a number of checks, very incomplete and wrong. That's what to pay attention to. I believe the Ministry will invent new instruments, so they eventually cross-check and don't go one way, not go over one person. He knows the minister, it's not just going through the public, it's going through other services, which is good. But, my contribution and my thinking, my proposal is, in fact, a proposal from the SRS and our MPs, that this point 7 be deleted, as we have proposed in this amendment. In Article 110(1), point (7) is deleted and will thus be eliminated so that this does not remain in the law and that it is indeed a major obstacle to a proper and complete check tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21748	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21749	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MUP has no other way of checking the candidates, and I think this check through the system, tell me that it won't contribute, especially it will be able to damage when candidates for employment are elected to the MUP, and I think this point 7) of Article 110 is to be deleted. But that's not the only reason I answered, so I'm gonna use the time we've got on the amendment. The SRS Parliament Club has come up with documentation so, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Minister and the Serbian public for one terrible abuse of those who are drilling into their chests that they are patriots, that they are honest, honest and honest and all their breasts are blue from hitting, but this documentation says something else entirely. With Zoran Zivkovic's arrival as federal interior minister on 4 November 2000, he was admitted to the SMUP and Dragan Sutanovac to work as a special adviser, for which an act on the organisation and systematisation of the ministry envisioned a working experience of eight years. Dragan Sutanovac did not meet that condition, i.e. he had some negligible internship, so a solution to the establishment of a working relationship established him an obligation to pass a professional exam within a year. If he doesn't pass it, he stops working. In order to avoid the obligation before the deadline of one year, Dragan Sutanovac was appointed an assistant minister of the MUP in August 2001. As a functionor, he had no obligation to pass an expert exam. In this capacity, all labour rights were exercised in the Federal Government's General Secretariat, and the interior minister had no legal authority to do so. However, before SMUP was abolished in December 2002, Minister Zivkovic completely unauthorizedly educated the ad hoc test committee only for Dragan Sutanovac, before which he passed a professional exam for work in state authorities. The president of the examination committee was Dragan Radulovic, then SMUP secretary Brankica Grupkovic, then SMUP's assistant, and Biljana Spasic, then head of the federal minister's cabinet, and is now secretary at the Ministry of Science and Environment. By the way, Dragan Sutanovac took in late December 2002 and 24 personal incomes under a social programme brought by the federal government in connection with the redecoration of relations in the earlier federal state, although he immediately employed in the SDPR. According to information from information funds, Dragan Sutanovac was also appointed as an assistant to the federal defence minister, although due to his 24 personal income, he did not have the right to work with state authorities. I have here the "Official Journal of the SRJ", where, on the basis of amendments 2 and 8 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic, a decision on the election of the president and members of the federal government, under which Zoran Zivkovic was elected as federal interior minister, was therefore directly involved in all this. I have a solution on the appointment of Federal Interior Minister Dragan Sutanovac as Assistant Minister of the Federal Interior on 25 October 2001, and I have the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why a conclusion was reached at the federal level, when a decision was made that those leaving the service should have the right to 24 personal income. It is said in point 2 of this conclusion -- it states officials who operate ministries, special organisations, professional and other services of the Government of Serbia and the Republic Authority's Joint Affairs Administration that they do not accept in the working relationship of persons who, as employees of federal authorities, have exercised the right to severance within a period of 24 months, counting on the day of termination of the working relationship of those persons in the federal administration bodies, on that basis. The signature is Dr Nebojsa Covic, vice president. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think after this information, everything is clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21750	Please, these are examples from the federal level, and here we are talking about the law on the police of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21751	The purpose of this amendment story is essentially to avoid any abuse when it comes to the application of this law, especially point 7). Namely, security check implies, if you didn't know gentlemen, and check out the most important members of the family of the persons involved in the police. Look what can happen now. It could happen that someone's parent or close relative at the time of the dissident was unwanted to former regimes. DB, or MUP as a party exposition, wrote a file at the time, and we come into an awkward situation. Not only can he not safely meet the conditions of the competition, but later such an ex post check may be a reason for the person to be fired from the police. There may be a reason for a person to be punished, it may be a reason for discrimination against that person. So it has to be precisely at point 7) define what security checks mean. You know, sometimes opposition MPs, opposition leaders, made files based on fictitious data. This means that their children, their descendants, are excluded from being able to compete in the MUP, and not only for the police, but also for the BIA, and for many state institutions where such checks are required. It must be precisely all these conditions and they are clearly defined, only this general term - a securely checked face, because later that security check implies, as my colleagues said, among other things, and oral surrender. You know how many files are drawn up based on the fact that D.B. operatives, in order to earn and justify the journal, have made up some facts. Besides, Bogoljub Pejcic is your best example. Looking at and keeping track of his record, he had a chance to see how they invented some data about him, at a time when he was a dissident, when he opposed Broz's regime. Now, apart from having consequences for everything he has opposed to similar Broz, now and his, not to abuse our friendship and familiarity, the descendants cannot work in state institutions like the police, because his file contains fictional facts, it says that he is a state enemy. That's what you need to make sure there's no abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21752	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21753	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, checking for one person who is applying for admission to the Interior Service cannot be the same check as checking to get a gun list for weapons possession and there's a problem. Namely, in Article 111. Proposal for a law - Collecting data on the candidate. He says, "The police can talk about a person who wants to start a working relationship at the ministry to do police tasks to collect data with the written consent of that person, as well as data to confirm a security disturbance to perform police tasks. "Subject 2: "The security check referred to in Article 1(1) shall cover the verification of the data set out in the rules on conditions for obtaining the armed list, as well as the data that the candidate for establishing a working relationship gives in the process of establishing a working relationship. "Not the same archaic and the same criteria can be prescribed for those who applied for a small-caliber rifle and for those who applied for a particular executive, for example, a post in the interior secretariat within the Ministry. That check can't be the same. Why? Imagine a man who wants a small-caliber weapon. It's being checked out for him like when we're supposed to see the Director of Police now, we're choosing the same criteria as the check. We direct the check and do it the same way, with it having to be more comprehensive, but the law did not need to predict, or mention this check being done as a check to get the gun list, or for weapons. This is what the SRS, or as an MP, is not ready to accept, and I oppose this way of evening the weapons checklist, getting weapons and checking for entry into the service of internal affairs. The criteria for me aren't the same, it's not the same thing. Someone can have a gun or a gun list. That weapon and the gun list can be taken away from him, even later, especially if that weapon was misused, especially if he used it, so he committed a public order and peace violation, but he had no intention of hurting anyone or anyone, God forbid, to kill. A man was looking forward to shooting a few bullets out of the city, and now there's a reason to take his weapon away. When you're checking in the same way for a person who's supposed to be head of the secretariat, especially if he comes after the competition, please, that check has to differ significantly. This one comes to manage either a particular significant and sensitive place in the ministry, to be a counselor or to be an operative, to whom extremely important information will be available that no one else can have but him, and to be reported by the Home Secretary. That's why the SRS thinks, and I know what it's like in practice, that this needs to be deleted and it doesn't need to be introduced, because in some ways this can only devaluate the check for those persons who are admitted to the service. I said earlier, there's a check through the criminal record, through criminal records, through other records kept by the Ministry, and that you get certain data of the true and true. But to equalize now for one firearm, or a small-caliber rifle and for the director of the BIA, to be the same, it's really the least unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21754	The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues from the SRS have said a lot about security clearance, particularly Mr. Jojic, who, with his long practice and experience, really explained and professionally, I believe that the minister of police, listening to his exposure today, as well as other Serbian radicals, could convince himself and his colleagues to accept our amendments, because they were written in the best interest. When it comes to Article 111 and Article 2, where Mr Jojic asks to delete this position 2, he is absolutely right. Namely, the legislator and the one who wrote this bill forgot if someone wanted to get a sports weapon or to carry out his checkup he had to train safe handling with firearms. We could probably have predicted here another clause for a man to lay down, or a woman, or anyone there, to really meet the conditions. In fact, it's nonsense to check out a candidate who wants to hire in Serbia's MUP as well as a candidate who wants to deal with sports, hunting or sports at all and to get sports weapons. There are many ways to do a much better check, first of all, we said, from criminal records, criminal and legal provisions, down to the degree of education and school, where the candidate ended up in a certain degree of school, as well as from a biography that the candidate will contribute to the competition to work in Serbia's MUP. Then there'd be a lot less abuse, and then there'd be a lot less furniture in the M.P., so everyone stretches out there with someone or a friend, and it's very easy with some operative who's doing the checking to make an honest man so he can't come work in the state organs. This should have been predicted in a different way and described, and I think that as it stands in Article 111, it's not acceptable, it's not good. It's an old method, not to say the old one after 1945, but I think the method is even older than 1945. So, in this modern time, the time of atomic, the computer I believe could have found a lot of better ways and a method to carry out that check for candidates who apply for a job in Serbia's MUP, not to leave it to an operative or an informant who will talk about a specific person or a specific person. Usually these operatives when they come to the field, they ask the neighbors -- what is this neighbor like, what is he doing, what is this, what is it, and there are many cases of very unreliable data and information. That's where the cardinal mistakes are made, and that's how the selection of people, and the right people who need to work in this significant organ, can't come to that place, but simply some guy who might have been praised or perhaps an Internal Affairs operative will come. I believe that this amendment to Mr Jojic should be accepted, and Article 111 is deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21756	Anyone else on this amendment? Minister Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21757	I really can't imagine anyone being admitted to the police without being checked. That's completely impossible. I've heard arguments against this here, but I haven't heard the way anyone would receive it. The police are a little more specific than the textile shop. It must be more specific. Why the gun list? Weapon paper should not be placed in signs of equality with a small-caliber rifle. If the Arms and Ammunition Act had been read, Article 8, then it would have been seen that they were the criteria required in issuing the gun-holding licence as the most complete verification. The law determines what needs to be checked. You can get into that records, you can have all the information on one man, but you don't know if that's exactly what makes him similar or inappropriate for police work. In addition to these seven points in Article 110's view, that he is a citizen, that he has a certain expertise, that he has psychophysical abilities, that he has a regular military obligation, that he has been checked securely, although his colleague Jojic has said correctly - there is a cross-breeding. Normally, it's never the best in a small place. That's a big truth. The person who receives or who, by systematization, has a job, e.g. The commander or chief may have a relative, and yet another child has signed up to work and will surely write a feature that may not be in favor of this other one, but there is more information, more information that crosses. We've been getting this kind of information, and on the other hand, we've learned that it's working, for example. about very high-quality children and that intention was quite the opposite. You've got to check it out somehow. Weapons sheet and a small-caliber rifle. It will not be so, because the Law on Weapons and Ammunition in Article 8 says, Approval for the acquisition of a small-caliber rifle: "A person convicted of the crimes of assaulting constitutional order, endangering the territorial continent, undermining military and defence powers, kidnapping of airships, killings, serious physical injuries, anti-natural fornication, robbery, robbery, serious cases of robbery, extortion, extortion, causing general danger, illegal hunting, preventing an official from committing an official's duty, preventing an authorized official from performing security duties, violent behaviour, causing and obtaining weapons and funds intended to commit a crime, participating in a group that commits violence for a criminal act established by this law". That's all that's behind this, apparently harmless syntagma -- getting a gun list, hiding. Further: "The person against whom a criminal case is being prosecuted for crimes committed under official duty during the course of the proceedings". Then four: "A person who, in the last three years, has since the day of filing, has been required to grant approval for the purchase of arms, punished for the violation of public order and peace, for which the sentence of imprisonment or violation of this law is prescribed." And five: "The person who is being prosecuted for violations of public order and peace, for whom a sentence of imprisonment or offence is prescribed, during the course of the proceedings." In the end, "Faces trained to handle firearms" as the lowest criterion. So, under this -- getting a gun list, it's actually hiding the creation of a set of crimes that make someone inappropriate to work at the MUP. You will agree that what I read still stands, that such faces could not be accepted and that the competition is not the same as in other areas of work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21758	I figured out the difference. In a textile shop, you need permission to hold a weapon, and in the police department, you don't need permission to hold a textile. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21759	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolutely unacceptable explanation to me, for the reason that in this law, which provides for this check, we should not call ourselves an armed list, so that we can devalue it. I would agree that all these elements and these facts have been incorporated into this article. This implies that persons who have committed crimes, against whom criminal proceedings are conducted, persons who have responded in public order and peace, for acts of violence. Here's an example of violent behavior, a man broke two or three glasses in a bar, and you have it on record. He'll never be allowed into the Home Office. From the area of public order and peace. For the past 10 years, the absolute obsolescence of the offense in two years. You are now listing everything you should have in mind and what is meant when checking for candidates to be admitted to the service of internal affairs authorities. You have devalued all this procedure with the very definition in this article that it is, that the check is done in the same way as the check for the gun list. That's incomparable. That's what this is all about. I know it has to be checked all of this that you've been talking about, according to the Arms Act, but in this law, as the legislation of the legions specialis, it should have been stated in the article that it meets the following conditions: that it was not convicted, that it was not criminally punished, that there was no other criminal act against it, that there were no other business interferences, that he was not deprived of his business ability. As for the weapons, do you know who wrote the Arms Act, and from what year does it date? You apply it and call upon it. It's okay, if those standards are good, there's no problem, if it's useful and if it's effective to apply in this law. In my opinion, a little devalir is being checked, when it's being equalized for an authorized official like a gun leaf, and I'm taking it down on a hunting rifle with a two-wheel, or I'm taking it down to a small-caliber one. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21760	I'd really like to ask in the future, when we're done discussing the amendments, when we get an additional clarification of someone's attitude, not a dispute of what's been said, not to use it as a replica for wrong interpretation. It's all about everything. A member of the 131st Amendment was submitted by a Member of the Verice Radet. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21761	Looks like Kostunica's ministers have hit Broz's syndrome. The other day we listen to and watch Velija Ilic, when journalists ask him why some trains or parts of trains were being purchased in the railways outside the Public Procurement Act, Velja says, "My people, it's such a bad law that I have to change it urgently." So he estimated that the law was bad and should not be applied. From Velja, I'm not surprised, but from Minister Jocic, my colleagues in the field, I did, when he said earlier that he shouldn't be a prisoner of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it's not a sacred letter. Mr. Jocicu, the Code of Criminal Procedure is a sacred letter when it comes to criminal proceedings and everything related to criminal proceedings, for any conduct of criminal proceedings, the system law is the Code of Criminal Procedure. If we were to assess, every minister in his field is his law systemically, but the laws are intertwined, so much so that although it's from the aspect of the police system law, I agree that it is, but when it comes to all the criminal proceedings, then in this system law, the system law is the Code of Criminal Procedure. We can't just call every law we've passed here a Lex special, nor can we even ourselves up in that sense with the system laws. Also, the Labour Act is a system law for this part, which is currently on the agenda, which concerns the rights and duties of police officers, employment, working hours, etc. This is where the provisions of the Labour Act are subsidized. No matter what she thought about the Labour Act, we talked about it when that law was on the agenda, but at least what was contained in the Labour Act was also meant for police officers. First, imagine this title above article 130 and the title under point 3: "The duties and rights of police officers. "For the first time I've seen this order. It's usually called law and duty. My eyes and ears were burning when I saw duty and rights. It is that it is the police, but it seems to me that it would be more humanely acceptable, it is legal, however, the fact that there are both rights and duties, order is irrelevant in terms of carrying out obligations, but in our legal system it is detached and common to say "law and duties". We didn't have an amendment here, but just to make a point. Looking at this law, it's okay what you said in the principle debate that the law on police will protect and protect all those who are in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, then I told you and now I repeat that it is okay, anyone who is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia should be protected, but it should be legally and protected from the state and anyone who protects all those who need protection. As you wrote in this section about working-legal status and the material position of police officers, it really seems to me like the officers of the second order. We don't think that in the SRS. On the contrary, we think that these are honorable people, good guys doing their job in the interests of all of us individually and in the interests of Serbia, the state, the state authorities, etc. If so, and we are convinced that it is, then you should do more and more seriously work-law status and the material position of police officers in this law. At the very least, police officers should have been even with the other civil servants of the law we almost passed here. In Article 131, which I have submitted the amendment to, in the bill, this member has only one position and says, "A police officer is required to perform jobs on the orders of a senior police officer longer than full-time, if necessary for the successful and timely performance of the official work." I'm allowed and I understand that it's a specific job, that a police officer can't stop the job and say, "I'm running out of hours, 1600 hours, I'm going home." Of course, there are actions that must be done longer. Of course, there are actions where you can't take care of working hours, like a classic clerk who comes to the office at 8:00 in the morning and goes home at 4:00 p.m. It's all clear. We know that. But as you predicted in this article 131 -- it's general, it doesn't solve anything, it doesn't essentially say anything. This is what he says, "he's in command's debt by order." So, you let a superior abuse his job, if a cop resents him in some business or in private, here's a chance for him to load him up to never go home. Then, "supervised police officer works longer than full-time." How long? Until retirement. He comes to work and doesn't go home until retirement. You can't do that. It can't take longer than full-time, and there's no limit as long as possible. He says, "if it's necessary to succeed... ", it's okay if it's necessary, as I said, for successful and timely performance. There must be a limit. It must be longer than working hours adequately to pay. It can't be regulated on days off, because cops don't have a normal working week anyway, like most employees do, which is Monday to Friday, Saturday and Sunday are not working days, but they do Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, nights, etc. Within such a scheduled working hours, redistribution must be made, and it must be given days instead of Saturdays and Sundays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, irrelevantly, as his superiors set the schedule for him. Of course, it would be good to respect the will of that policeman, his wishes, and his needs, so as much as possible to please him. It's never 100% possible, but to please and, on the other hand, police officers are satisfied. In that sense, the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. We've predicted two more positions to be added to this Article 131. The first position: "Work longer than full-time from the position of the first member cannot last longer than 8 hours in one working day". We think that's enough. If an action has started even in the last regular hours of a police officer, 8 hours is enough to be replaced, or another team comes, because one cop never goes to such a specific action where it takes longer working hours, let's say, chasing a criminal, etc. So, if the regular working hours of a police officer end at 1400 hours and he leaves at 13,50 p.m. for that specific action, eight hours is enough for his superior to find another team that we're going to meet somewhere with this crew who's at work and take on the lead, or chasing that criminal. Everyone knows, if they met in Prince Milos, he says, "We went around those streets too, we're moving on." The way it's done now, we can see from this money that went missing from the C Market in Zemun. So for that reason, we think it's necessary for this extended, overtime to be limited to 8 hours. We're convinced that the eight-hour overtime limit cannot, in any way, endanger the work that a police officer is doing, the action that is under way. The second position, which we have predicted, is that a police officer is determined to make increased earnings in accordance with the provisions of labour law on increased earnings. So, what I've already said about it. We and here have people who provide this building, tonight we may be working until 10:00, they're out of hours at 6:00, and they have to be here, like us, by 10:00 and 11:00, to escort all of us while we go, to examine everything. He needs tomorrow, or in 10 days, when he doesn't need it, to have his superior tell him -- today you have a day off for what the ruling majority deputies didn't come to, so the assembly didn't work, there wasn't a session, and that's why Thursday had to be done till 10:00, and you had to be there by 10:00, and here's a day off that you don't need for nothing, sleep at home. (Dear Jocic, from the place, if they complain about what they do? No, no one complained. We, Mr. Minister, know how it works, not just this service, but at all. For your information, many police officers, you certainly know that, and how sympathetic they are to the SRS. There's a minister, right? From whom we get information, you know well, we would never give up our sources at the cost of our lives, but you have to agree that everything I said is true and that you should take care and think the same way. You are the current minister, you work with these people and believe that you will be much better off and that the Ministry will work much better if these people are satisfied with their material position and their working legal status. So this second attitude should be accepted, as well as the entire amendment, to be extended work, so-called. Overtime work, police officers are adequately paid compensation under the Labour Act. Even when applied, these people will again be significantly damaged, because the Labour Act also restricts overtime, which is completely illogical and abnormal. If the employer has a need, any worker that's involved, that a worker works for him a week for 40 hours, he can't limit him to only pay him half of it, but he has to pay him as much as he does. If he won't pay him, he can't make him work longer than the time he's willing to pay him. We think this amendment is fully in line with your well-being and the Ministry to establish order in the police. You can't expect a cop to do his job properly if you guys set him up indefinitely when he gets to work, like I said before, until he retires. Of course, I've caricated it, but it can't go home for two days and two nights, and you can't expect a man like that to be effective in his work. Minister, in an extremely good sense and in order to improve the text of this law, I have convinced you of that amendment to Article 5, accept this amendment, and you will get a better law and we will all get better and more satisfied police, and I guess we all will.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21762	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Minister Dragan Jocic has a word, but only one notice for both the minister and the others -- security in the Assembly doesn't work at all on this principle, so you don't worry, if that's part of the notice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21763	I couldn't agree more, but we know that the police are all honorable and good guys, and when we wrote this law, we took care of them. I have to say, on average, a police officer is more paid than an official in the general regime. What matters is, I would accept this amendment, but it is worse than our solution. You said that Article 131 after point 1) adds item 2 and 3 and "work longer than full-time under Article 1 of this article cannot last longer than eight hours during one working day". The labour law says, "overtime work cannot last more than eight hours a week or more than four hours a day." You're suggesting eight hours, and we're proposing four hours. The amendment is contradictory of the provisions of labour law on overtime. It is predicted that workers cannot work overtime for more than eight hours a week or 32 hours a month or more than four hours a day. The proposed amendment suggests that a police officer can work overtime every day for up to eight hours. Your amendment then foresees that such overtime is projected under the same law that does not allow such work. In Article 169, we predicted: "In the positions, duties, rights and responsibilities of employees in the Ministry, rules on working relations in state bodies are applied, if these laws and regulations adopted under this law are not otherwise stated." And in Article 4. The law on civil servants is said: "The rights and duties of civil servants, which are not governed by a special law and by another regulation, will be subject to general labour regulations." When you look at it, you predict that four hours longer can be done. So four hours is according to the law, and the amendment provides for eight hours. Secondly, you are applying the general regime, and it allows for a more favourable compensation for the overtime of our law in Article 147. It's about an impossible amendment. I don't want to explain, prove to me that this amendment is in accordance with the law, that your solutions are more favourable than your legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21764	Thank you. Mrs. Radeta, do you want a replica, a consultation or a replica and a consultation?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21765	I don't know what the system of replicas and consultations is, in the Rules of Procedure that I've never seen in this assembly, but good. There's no combination. Now we're talking about something strictly in the law. Minister, I know you've had a need and it's normal for you to come out and let all the officers who listen and watch this assembly hear that they have a good minister who takes care of them, but you're wrong, Minister. Your original member of 131 says: "A police officer is required to perform a job by order of a senior police officer longer than full-time, if necessary for the successful and timely performance of official work. "Clear as day. What does that article 169 say that you haven't read all of it. He says, "The position, duties, rights and responsibilities of ministry employees are subject to the rules on working relations in the state bodies," there's a comma where you put the point, and behind the comma is said "if the laws and regulations adopted under this law are not different." And by this law, as you can see, it's different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21766	There you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21767	I'm sorry, I asked for an explanation for the possible adoption of your amendment. You didn't explain it, you explained the bill. Explain to me your amendment to this criticism I took from the corner of the Labour Act. That's what I'm interested in. I want to accept your amendment, but it predicts four hours longer than the Labour Act provides. That's what I'm asking you to do, so I can possibly accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21768	In that case, what the president of the assembly drew attention to, five-minute consultations after a replica to explain, because don't explain it to everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21769	No, there's no need to consult. The Minister may, if he wishes, adopt this amendment. We claim that the amendment solution is better for police officers, that we are doing them a favor, that is, not doing them a favor but allowing them to be evened out with other civil servants. When we said "work longer than full-time from the position of the first member can't last longer than eight hours a day," you don't think we thought every day would last until eight hours? There's a labour law that says how much between working days a man needs to rest. Of course, because of the specificity of the job, we said that eight hours is a measure enough to allow the initial action to be completed or to replace the police team during that period. So there's no point in predicting that it's longer than what's provided for in the Labour Act, than some day when there's a need for overtime, it can't last longer than eight hours. It is absolutely in line with this Labour Act and more suitable for police officers than your solution. Of course, there's no need to convince ourselves anymore, you can accept or not accept, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21770	Thank you. On Article 132, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 133rd amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. You see, it's better when they're real information, not like before, people are kidding, and someone thinks they're getting information.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21771	Ladies and gentlemen, the minister is wrong. You'd be Mr. Jocic's right if he were in article 131. A short while ago, it was said that a police officer was required by a senior police officer to perform a job longer than full-time. How long? Because we know that service needs sometimes require that during a working day or more days work longer than full-time, but we appreciated that there would be a need for members of the police service to work longer than full-time, but for up to 12 hours. If you have the information, go out and tell us now during the current year how many workers worked for hundreds of hours longer than the Labour Act predicted. Internal Affairs members work two hours each, but they are not rewarded for it. As a result, the SRS considers, having regard above all to the provisions of Article 38. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Constitution and a member of the 38th foreign employees of the MUP, have a foothold in it: "Employees have the right to a limited working time, on a daily and Sunday vacation and on paid vacation and leave, in accordance with the law, or collective agreement. "Station 2: "Employees have the right to protection at work, in accordance with the law. "Young people, disabled people and women have special protection, etc. What you were just interpreting, when this member was concerned, the SRS believes that the needs of the service may require longer hours than full-time working hours, the Labour Relations Act provides four, however, because of the specificity of the service, the police cannot interrupt the action, police may not restrict, which should be contained today, tomorrow and maintain public order and peace. Or when it comes to organised crime when they are chasing an organized gang that is committing a crime, to reach the Panchean Bridge and to stop, as the autonomists did in 1972 when the Turkish ambassador was killed. Velmože of Novi Sad ordered - you from Belgrade cannot conduct an investigation into the Vojvodina area. Interrupted action. We say there's no need to interpret it differently. Interior officials expect the interior ministry, especially Mr. Jocic, to take them for protection. But, Minister Jocic, let me just ask you a few questions, count and determine the number of vehicles coming from the Ministry at the gas station this afternoon on Friday and Monday morning. Perform rationalization and see how much money you will have to share with workers who are to be given, who work day and night, duty and alert. I'll remind you what I had in practice. Me and a colleague at the Romanian border were ambushed, for six hours we were on topols. My colleague Mila Bulatovic was an operative and we were waiting for criminals carrying 12kg of gold from Romania. Six hours, when the ice fell and the snow on the topola hung, and he couldn't survive, he died. Who wasn't a cop, an operative, and he wasn't chasing chickens, cyclists, burglars, pickpockets, crooks, thugs, thugs, and organized crime, it's hard to imagine and experience the position of members of the Internal Affairs Authority. Very difficult. If that man is to go on vacation, if he has to earn bread for his children, if he has to buy a child shoes and books for school, from where with 15 or 20,000, and you defend him from not being able to do extra work. Something in the law has to be arranged. Set up the law and give the police 1,000 euros. Don't think the police will be bribed and corrupt. I'll rule that out if they're rewarded. I've been listening to this for years, I've been at this opportunity, but before, the police position was far better than it is now, never worse. They're not going to tell you, Mr. Minister, operatives, they're afraid, they can't open their hearts. You see, when it comes to the transfer, when it comes to the promotion, the establishment of a working relationship, when it comes to this overtime, value it, and we'll have better and more capable police, we'll have the police who's really ready, professional. They're working on people whose education is on a high level. The results are extremely good at curbing certain waters of crime. I'm not saying this to myself, I don't have a cousin in the police department, but I'm saying because I have the knowledge that our police are in a difficult position, extremely difficult. That's what you're fighting for. Don't let the Ministry of Finance watch you whose cow is thin and whose fat and how we treat it. You see their housing question, when they're going to solve the housing issue, these members of our internal affairs organs. Consider another important fact, Mr. Minister. How many soldiers do we have today? Are our air and fighter planes flying and training? When are we gonna be able to lift the squadron? We are now counting on the police to guard our border, as police among other businesses have taken over huge border security jobs and taken over fire protection obligations, which are not small businesses in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. All these jobs require that you, Mr. Minister, have to face it and act more resolutely that Mr. from the Ministry of Finance, don't ask you, you don't have to ask for money from the finance minister. There are current reserves, surpluses in a budget of 50 billion dinars. What are we talking about? Those people who work under the most difficult conditions, I was an eyewitness 15 days ago when the bank was robbed here when they were chasing criminals. The two of them run, the poor cop burns his hat, holds a gun, wants to be run over by vehicles in the Duke of Milosha. Will the Ministry of Finance run some clerk to face a criminal like that, when he has a gun too. How many members of the service died and gave their lives for the security of the state and our citizens? What is the position of disabled people who came from the Home Office? Don't get me wrong, I have no intention, it's my intention to really express what I've experienced and what I see those members of our Home Office must have better treatment. I've had conversations with a number of members of your service. They say we should be paid overtime in accordance with labour law. He'll be pleased. What's being treated with 30 or 50 can't compensate. This way you'll have the police standing by indefinitely. The police station commander orders alert, 150 officers arrive at the police station, and he goes to the weekend or goes to the bar. They're waiting for the dwarves, and they're coming the day after tomorrow and they say, "Now you can go home." And these people who weren't with their family, who had to escort their children to school, to see if their child had bread, what their family did to them, or for days and months that were separated from their family, and nobody cared about them. I don't think so. I'm not convinced the minister isn't thinking about this. He's thinking day and night about this, but I'd like to see your minister's score. I know you're advocating the police, but there's no result. We Serbian radicals would like to see the results. Take those few billion, and there's a big building down there, which now looks like the State Department building, the finance minister building, you see how in a year it's well adapted, all in marble, etc. Look into that leather bag of his and ask him if you'll give it to the police. Tell him, Mr. Minister, no more security, no more security, no more of you, no more secretaries, no more of your advisors, no more; no police will provide, because you don't give money. There's money, but don't be shy, and don't look back now, these from this ministry will say, and what the other ministry and the other resort will say; I don't care. I know that police officers do the hardest work, the most responsible and sacrifice their lives and their heads for the security of the citizens and the security of the constitutional arrangement, for the integrity of the territory, the first one will be on the bedside tomorrow, and I would go to the bunker with them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21772	According to the same amendment, the People's MP Milorad Mircic has the same word. Just to remind you that someone wouldn't think of you who should accept the amendment to talk about what we talked about. No, I'm sorry, just a moment, please, Mr. Mircic, it's very important, because the proposal to add points 2 and 3 and the amendment is talking about something else. "A police officer and other police officers may, with the written consent of the manager, work outside the working hours for another employer, if the additional work is not prohibited by a special law or by another regulation, unless it creates the possibility of conflict of interest or affects the impartiality of the work of a police officer and another police officer. The consent of the manager is not necessary for additional and scientific research work, publication of copyright works and work in cultural and artistic associations, humanitarian and sports associations, but the manager may also prohibit such work if it makes it impossible or makes it difficult to work as a police officer and other police officer or damage to the reputation of the state authority. "I apologize for misusing it, because I can't stand for the amendment as it says from the pay phone, so I did it by reading this. Here you go, Mr. Mircic, and thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21773	What the SRS wants with this amendment is that this member is clearly and precisely defined for the simple reason that, not only for comparative rights, but also for experience we have some lessons. We are witnessing that in the not so long ago, persons who belonged to different circles, persons who were unformed, were members of the MUP, and outside of the service were carried out by guards, or bodyguards, as they say, so that they clearly and decadently state what they can do and what they can do outside of service and beyond what is in the workplace. However, I apologize, I have to take this opportunity, because in a way, the topic is about police work. In fact, last night, there was an unsettling event in Novi Sad. A group of neo-Nazis broke into the Faculty of Philosophy and broke up the stands held at the Faculty of Philosophy, which we Serbian radicals condemn. Not one group can, and we just talked about it as part of a member, where the police should co-operate with associations of citizens and minorities. These are real examples where the police need to intervene, to respond in time and time. These and such groups have been activated in Serbia, we don't know from whom, and we don't know for what purpose, but we condemn such actions. We condemn and ask the police to be examined as soon as possible and to publish the names of the defendants, regardless of what we think about individual participants in the trial, some professors who advocate the secession of Montenegro, the independence of Montenegro, which are both contradictory and in their scientific work, as well as in their political functioning. This can't justify the actions of these groups, which are in any case groups that threaten security, and that's the first time in the Faculty of Philosophy in Novi Sad and even at the University of Novi Sad, these incidents happen. The SRS strongly condemns. Why am I taking this opportunity? For the simple reason that some media, the means of information, have drawn from the context a statement that we Serbian radicals do not condemn such actions, but that we condemn one of the participants in the tribune, which is out of the mind, because no normal man can allow himself to allow such groups to act, especially with such political attitudes, with their actions that are ultimately harmful to all of us. At the moment political tension rises in Vojvodina, and related to international relations, these groups appear at the University. The police must not only in Novi Sad, but in all Serbia, as soon as possible find the organizers of the group, the participants, and act in accordance with the law, and everything is clear there. As far as these amendments are concerned, generally, the SRS is trying to improve legal provisions and perhaps in some of the examples that we state, which we support and explain these amendments, we may be overly simplifying, but these are examples of real life. It's something that burdens not only the police, but society as a whole. It's a financial problem, it's a lack of money. On the other hand, we see that within one system, an institution called the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what is responsible for the security of this country, for the security of citizens, is making every effort and effort to fulfil its tasks. And they always impose themselves as the biggest problem of material conditions, while on the other hand we have in the same government some of the ministries that are debauched, whose ministers travel in Japan to make peace with some of their tycoons, which is inappropriate. These men, who are police officers, are individually involved in the escorting of these ministers, and we must respect the fact that this is the moment when he, by doing his duty, is always taking care of the security of both ministers and all citizens, watching with his eyes the conduct of certain members of the government, and in doing so we, the Committee and the representatives of the ministry, are always being served by the finance minister -- there are not enough resources, we need to run budgetary policies restrictively, no matter how much we invest. What is particularly important, when it comes to this part, is those people who are deployed to southern Serbia. They're members of the gendarmes. I apologize, Mr. President, these people deserve to be mentioned. All of us who have been able to see the conditions in which these people operate, in what conditions these people operate, are aware of the fact that in such conditions only will and only love for Serbia and the desire to professionally carry out their duties in those positions and to carry out their functions highly professionally. I'm not just talking about the gendarmes, I'm talking about the full officer's office and the entire ministry that is vertically hierarchically involved in that part of the job, and there's a lot of these jobs, there's a lot of such members and they have to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21774	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's one right that the MPs have never had before and this law is being introduced and that's good. Everyone could use the privileges of a union organization, all employees, except the military and police, and it is good that the law also provides for the union organisation of police and the protection of the rights of employees in the police by the union. Desiring to improve this Article 134 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment asking for Article 1 to be added to Article 2 which will read: "Police officials cannot join the union organisations of other professions". For two reasons. First, that police officers organise their professional union, whose work will be dedicated exclusively to them, because unless we install this position in Article 134, they remain able to join the existing three unions. One half, if not two-thirds of those who run these unions, it's these cops who need to chase for a lot of criminal activities. So, only the professional union and that would be regulated by attitude 2. They won't join the ASNS. You remember that Minister Milovanovic who formed ASNS. It seems to me that the police will be very quick to determine how he got so much wealth, and what he had before he became a minister. Or to get involved in Independence with Chanka, who took care of himself very well, and there he is, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Employment Fund, with a fat application, but none of his members of the Union of Independence can boast that he has protected so much of his rights. The third option is for this stand-alone union run by Milenko Smiljanic, and you had opportunities the other night, before considering this law that Minister Lalovic made here, to see on TV how Mika and Lale, Mika is Milenko Smiljanić, and Lale is Lalovic, speak nicely for his own benefit, not for the interests of the union, not for the employees, nor for the unemployed, all those who Smiljanić should defend. Therefore, I believe that the minister should come out after me and say: we are adopting the amendment to Article 134. And keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21776	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 135 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 137th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21777	This is an amendment to Article 137 that regulates the increase of the employment rate based on the letters of work. Here, among other things, is the tax on what are the working conditions. It is an increased risk to life and health, to perform long-term work hours due to unpredictable tasks, to labour disorder, or to work in irregular times and so on, for public holidays and non-working days, to be alert at work or second place or in an apartment according to the order of a senior police officer and similar types of active and passive duty. I think points 2 and 4 here are completely superfluous. This is longer than fixed working hours due to unpredictable tasks and work for national holidays and non-working days. It's something that would mean that other officials on this basis also exercise the right to so-called. Beneficiary work experience. I think these other conditions are enough without these two points to explain why the duration of the internship with the police is increased from 12 to 16 months. For this reason, I have proposed this amendment before the SRS. He doesn't really change anything. It's clearer, it defines more precisely. Why? Because based on this, some initiatives could appear and say, if the police have been granted an unfavourable job internship, or increased work experience based on what they do overtime and what they do during the holidays, then those who are not officially involved in this type of work, and ultimately work overtime and during the holidays, can seek the same basis. That's the point, and we have no reason to force that minister to accept it or not. On the Committee he did not accept, we are now calling on the Minister to, if he is able, accept, as a representative of the Proposer, by the fact that the essence does not change. Essentially nothing changes, remains the basis by which they exercise that right, and these are some general places, and they are interesting and characteristic of other services.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21778	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 146th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21779	Ladies and gentlemen, we have submitted an amendment to Article 146 in order to improve the material position of members of police authorities, because the bill provides for a police officer and other employees in the Ministry to have the right to pay, consisting of a basicity determined by the Government and the basics and additional coefficient in relation to the calling, special working conditions, danger, responsibility and complexity of work. The salary of heading 1 of this article shall be increased by 0.4% for each year of work. The level of the coefficient set out in article 1 determines the minister by means of an act on the salaries of employees in the ministry, which brings with the consent of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, it was before that the police had a score of not 0.4%, but 0.5%. I don't know, regardless of any other regulation that regulates the work of state authorities, but the police deserve in this case to be an exception. At least the exception in that part to compensate for everything the police do, and the others don't. Efforts and casualties, burdens and the weight of police work, so at least this way it needs to be rewarded and paid. The SRS therefore proposes that the coefficient be 0.5%, not 0.4%. I'd just like to say that in one law in our environment, there is also a coefficient of 0.5%. It's not an accident. The government and that country, which is in our neighborhood, are making a salary calculation according to this 0.5% increase coefficient. Come on, there's something we can accept if we say we're not the exception, but at least in one piece to improve the position of employees in the MUP. The salary accounting coefficient, as provided for in Article 147, cannot possibly be compensated with all that goes on in the bill of this law and where it is said - we have a wish and intent, we will do the reckoning. This can be compensated by the coefficient for the salary being nominally higher than the coefficient for other civil servants. He can't compensate, they can't reach. If I'm not telling the truth, consult all the workers, and you'll see if they can compensate and reach. It is more favourable for them to be paid overtime, to be paid unsettled time, to pay for the dangers of life and all that you have predicted as facts in the bill. Pay them in accordance with the provisions of labour law. It was just a moment ago that he was obliged to work, by order of the elder, longer than full - time, but not said how long. Minister Jocic said no more than four hours. That's not true. In practice, we have a different situation. I'd just like to remind Minister Jocic, would you like to invite the finance minister to pay the members of the security guard for overtime on the bank's security, and see how much overtime has been spent. Until today, he didn't pay for it, and it was said that the Ministry of Finance or the Association of Banks, I don't know who the organiser was, would be up to you to look for that amount, to pay these members, because they had carried out a large security set of bankers in Belgrade. At least do it, they'll be grateful for your work. This 0,4 coefficient is small to us, unacceptable. It would be the right solution to adopt the amendment and increase this coefficient that was earlier. The law of a neighbouring country says 0.5%. Let it be for everyone, everyone deserves it. If you think it should be those who carry out the most difficult tasks and jobs, at least those people should be rewarded. That's why we're proposing, and we're asking the minister to consider members of the police. They're really working under abnormal conditions, working under difficult circumstances. If a man is retired with 22,000 dinars of salary, as an operative, it's very small and not appropriate. See that in public utility companies officials have three, four times their salary, and we say that we need to apply the Law on State Administration and that we should apply it to everything. Find some options. You're a very thoughtful man, first of all responsible, help the employees, there's a lot of people to whom this applies. It will improve their material position, and you have the right to ask then, Mr. Jocic, to perform their duties.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21780	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another amendment that we wanted to crystallize the members of the law and improve the conditions, to create better conditions than the conditions laid down in the law. Working-legislative legislation is clear, but by binding to the correct number of coefficients, you are making it impossible to further increase employees' earnings. You're bringing, Mr. Minister, you and the ministers who sat here before you and passed bill proposals from other areas, the SRS into a very awkward and invisible position. We will have to change many laws there in the spring, when the government changes, and when we take over, by the will of the people, the wheel of Serbia, we have to change many laws, so please, if we have to change labour law, to perfect, to improve, to improve the conditions for employees, then at least we don't have to change this law in the spring, so that some minister from the SRS doesn't have to sit in that place again and make new bill proposals. The amendment requires that Article 147 be amended and read as follows: "Because of the special conditions of work, responsibility, weight and nature of work, work on the day of the holiday, which is a day of work, night work, work on shifts, overtime, duty, preparedness and other types of irregularity in work, employees of the Ministry are determined the coefficient for the calculation of wages under the provisions of the labour law on increased earnings". So when we change the Labour Law, we'll be able to apply to employees of the police. Besides, provisions 35, 36 and 38. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is covered by workers' rights and obligations under equal conditions. In doing so, it is especially important to take care of financial compensation for police employees, because they work here with honor, honesty, honest and safe people. The number of those who dare to harass citizens is negligible. What happened on November 5th is that one member of the MUP, and if he knew it was two MPs, lived, those are negligible individuals and clean up of such services, but those who remain in the service adequately rewarded, and the money, according to MP Jojic, also has to be for the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21782	Anyone else want a word? The word has a minister, Mr. Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21783	A little clarification. This discussion is completely healthy. And we on this side, working at the Ministry, and you on that, we want to improve the legal text. There's no problem. In Article 147, you said that it is changing and said: "Because of the special conditions of work, responsibility, weight and nature of jobs, work on the day of the holidays, which is a day of work, night work, work on shifts, overtime, duty, preparedness and other types of irregularity in work, employees of the ministry are determined the coefficient for the calculation of wages under the provisions of the labour law on increased earnings". We've calculated and determined that this would be more unfavourable for the profit of a MUP member. In fact, accepting amendments to put police officers in the general regime, as proposed by the amendment, would reduce those rights that they already have under the Internal Affairs Act, which is the 30% increase in wages. This is in Article 47 of the current Internal Affairs Act, where it is said that due to specific working conditions, the weight and nature of tasks in certain duties determines at least 30% of the increased wage. So when you look at the mass of money you get for the salaries of this ministry and other ministries, it's 30% higher, precisely because of this solution from the previous law, and the new ones have been detained by those solutions. If wages were to be calculated by coefficients, according to the provisions of working-legal relations on increased earnings, police officers would only be entitled to an allowance based on work on holidays, night work, work on shifts and overtime, or no more than four hours a day, and eight hours a week. When it is collected and taken away and compared, it is a secondary school, with the secondary school of a member in another ministry and the Ministry of Interior, the general regime applies to this, which is not the case, so now the salary is around 20,000, the average salary with 10 years of work in the MUP, and such a salary is in other ministries 16,000. If you went back to this regime, the pay would be much less. It's a matter of calculation, and it should be taken good care of, because these previous laws were not so precise. In writing this law, we had a lot of difficulty keeping the status of employees in the MUP at the level it now has. Normally, Article 147 provides for opportunities, but only needs money. In this law we have incorporated everything that wages can grow, and whether they will grow depends on the government's register, we have given the fiscus money in it. I have to say, no matter what is said in relation to the Ministry of Finance, the country was 15 years in abnormal conditions, there was a war, there were great costs. This ministry has been tasked from 2000 to 2003 with abnormal projects, which I don't know if it needs them, but in any case, they're making it harder for the ministry to work. So I'm paying off the loans they owed me three years ago. These are very large loans, for projects that are uncertain and I don't know if they were needed in that capacity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21784	The word is Momir Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21785	Two short replicas. Find out if the Ministry is in charge under the law, you'll find that it isn't, then arrest whoever's in charge of the Ministry and solve the problem. Secondly, it is evident that Minister Jocic is sitting in the same government with Minister Dinkic, and he learned only to take away, never gives. The amendments to Articles 146 and 147 do not encroach on acquired rights. Therefore, what they have in the MUP remains for them. We tried to fix the law with these increases in the amendments. Therefore, those 30% remain, and if you install these amendments into the law, employees will get far more. Just because he doesn't have money, he didn't have to build a building like that on Geprat's street.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21786	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? (No) Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 157 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21787	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have come to chapter in the bill of law on serious violations of official duty. In particular, Article 157, point 21, "the cover-up by an officer in charge of the violation of official duties for which a member of the staff may be given the disciplinary measure of termination of a working relationship" is one of the grave violations of official duty. We of the Social Democratic Party have submitted an amendment asking that the words "by a senior officer" are deleted in this form of a 21st point, so that the point is 21) "to conceal the execution of an official duty for which an employee can be given the disciplinary measure of termination of a working relationship" is a serious violation of his official duty, with the reason that the superior but also subordinated officials are obliged to apply, better said not to cover up injuries to official duties for which an employee may be given the disciplinary measure of termination of a working relationship. We believe that it is the obligation of anyone working in the police, not just a superior, if there is a certain knowledge of the offences that involve the punishment of termination of employment, say, at the request of the internal control officers, to report, if they are familiar with such a violation and to speak of it. I can't expect only a commanding officer to talk about it if they have personal knowledge that such phenomena have occurred. We think it's very important, because of the decriminalization of the police and for everything that is possible to do in this sense, that anyone who is aware of whom is asked to report such an act, to speak of it, not to hide it, has an obligation to do so, whether it's a superior or a subordinate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21788	Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 157th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21789	I'm talking again about the same member, Article 157, who defines serious injuries to official duty. Official duty injuries are also defined by Article 156. It's a bill of law. These minor injuries to official duty have been defined. In fact, the Civil Service Act, as a general law, defines certain general matters regarding this subject. Of course, the legislator of this law has decided to define in detail the easier and more serious violations of official duty, as I said in Articles 156 and 157. What is our observation, and I am sure that there has been a lack of this bill in these articles, is that it is not envisaged that even a minor injury at one point can become a serious injury in certain cases, and in certain cases, we have provided for our amendment to add two more points in addition to 21 points, where it would be said that serious injuries to official duty include repeating the minor violations of duties identified by a final solution which has been imposed disciplinary punishment. Let me explain right now. So, if a person, employed by the police, repeatedly commits any of these minor injuries to official duties, at one point after the fifth and sixth repeats these minor injuries, one must realize that this person has committed a serious injury to his official duty. So, the successive repetition by one person of the execution of minor injuries to duty logically grows at one point in the injury to which the weight of the disciplinary measure is expressed. So that's point 21a. As point 21b, we suggest that a serious violation of the official duty must be done even when a minor violation of the duties laid down in Article 156, except at point 7 of this law, due to whose execution has been caused by a more serious consequence of the greater importance, also constitutes a serious violation of the official duty. What do I mean? Article 156 says that minor injuries to official duties are easier; we have 7 points. The 7th point states, for example, that acting against a warrant or a job manual is now important, which has caused or could have caused adverse consequences of minor importance. So it says here exactly which one could have caused or caused the consequences of minor importance. But from the 1-6th point, certain acts or misdemeanors can not cause consequences, to cause easier and more serious consequences. Let's say, at point 6 he says, "None or disorderly wearing uniforms and weapons." That could mean that unless the official person carries a weapon, and he's supposed to carry it, he doesn't have to have any consequences, because nothing's happening. It can cause easier consequences, but it can be harder. For example, if he is in a position to help a person by using that weapon of his, and he has not carried it or carried it disorderly, then it causes a certain offense that brings serious consequences. It must therefore be defined as an act for which sanctions are provided for more restrictive measures, as in Article 150, of a serious violation of official duty. We believe that accepting this amendment would simply round up this part of the violation of official duties and complete itself. Otherwise, if this amendment is not adopted, in practice, there could be a trip over the things I've been talking about. None of the minor injuries here, I've checked very well, if the consequences arise, I can't commit to those in Article 157. In the case of these minor injuries from 156, if serious consequences arise, they cannot be subjected to any of the cases described in Article 157. There is also such a need and space for this amendment to be accepted, in order for this whole chapter to be rounded up in a more realistic way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21790	Thank you, Mr. Dragan Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21791	I'm not sure that it would be a good solution if someone in the course of their work in the course of the working life made three or four or five minor injuries, so they were responsible and sanctioned for each and every single one, that in the end, after five or six years, someone would think of cumulating it all up, so for everything he was punished for, that it was a more serious breach of a work obligation. I don't think that would be good. However, if we look at Article 157(6), it is quite a broad norm, where "the performance of its duties in such a way as to interfere with the achievement of tasks" can be undertaken under this point and under a serious violation of official duty. Otherwise, this solution you suggested, I don't know if it would be possible from the position of the Constitution. That would be Latin, not bis, and I'm going, not twice about the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21792	Replica, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21793	I have to say, we don't understand each other. The law on civil servants, which we have brought here, which is the general law, provides for such a possibility. Secondly, you just said that being a police officer is a duty in the service of internal affairs is a specific activity and cannot be treated as a work in a shoe shop or another normal activity. It's not the same sanction if someone misjudges the sole of a shoe five times in a row or makes some kind of violation of their official duty that can have serious consequences. I believe that if someone becomes used to being unsustainable, with ease of dealing with duties, many of which depend, and many count on, it must at some point be something that is unacceptable, sanctioned in a difficult way, because otherwise, you can have a MUP worker who can be irresponsibly irresponsible. Logic itself imposes that such a thing would be meaningful and would be good for the MUP as well. We know that working discipline is not something that generally characterizes us as workers and as a people, let alone when it comes to certain special things. This easy treatment of certain duties, and in the MUP it is particularly difficult. On the other hand, in Article 156(7), you fenced yourself and said "to carry out the tasks that caused or could have caused adverse consequences of minor importance", which means that it caused or could have caused consequences of greater importance. So, you've found here on your own that it's possible that these minor injuries of official duty can lead to minor or severe disturbances. I read point 7), but I believe that in each point from 1) to 7), and not only in 7), it was possible to find the same definition that said "which caused or could have caused adverse consequences of minor importance", which means that it could have caused consequences of more serious importance. If the consequences of more serious importance arise, then it shall pass under a provision defined by Article 157. "severe injuries to official duty." I have cited only one example, example point 6), but any one of these points can at some point cause more serious consequences. You have an obligation to carry a weapon and you don't carry it, you come into a situation where you have to protect someone's life or property, and you don't do it because you were irresponsible and you didn't carry that weapon, or you didn't carry it in an adequate way, and right now you're causing some serious consequences and it's not an easier act, it's a more difficult act. Someone's life for being threatened. Let's not argue, let's not take valuable time, but we're all tired, it's up to you to accept or not accept. I think this proposal is very constructive.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21794	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21795	In principle, the basic idea of this amendment is good. In fact, the colleague pointed out in her explanation that if some violations are repeated, as defined in the law as an easy offense, minor injuries, that is a major problem. But here, in disciplinary terms, we see that for easier violations we have a 10% to 30% reduction in wages. Statistically, when you look at it, what's the biggest problem when it comes to the attitude of citizens to the police and vice versa. This is the point 2) of Article 156, which looks harmless, "unkind treatment for parties and associates during work". If the parliamentary group, represented by a colleague, had given this a hand in time during the calendar year, it would have been an excellent amendment. So in one calendar year if he repeats multiple violations, then it has the treatment of what you Ministers say, point 6). It's something that's also like a stumbling block when it comes to the functioning and operational functioning of the police, especially when it comes to traffic police. The basic reason for dissatisfaction is rude behavior. You know, when he stops an MP and asks which party you are, he asks him what party you're on a regular basis. MPs have insights, respects, they won't complain, they won't cause any trouble. And then there's the story, you know, if you could fix something for me. That tells the MPs, and imagine how it works and communicates with ordinary citizens. The basic idea of this amendment is that the repeated parts of this part of an easy injury, if repeated in one calendar year, you have a complete basis, although this point 6 can be reduced to that. That's what you ministers say that someone would abuse it and cumulatively list it all -- not in one year. As the internal control sector is now, we have ruled out the role of the individual, the sector clearly finds that in one calendar year so many easier violations have been committed by the same person and he has the treatment of a serious offense, although these sanctions, when it comes to serious violations, are not exactly adequate. Everything in Serbia can be tolerated, especially the traffic police because they have that manual radar, so how much you measure, so even if it's a guess, I'm talking about exceptions, most of them are honest and honest people, professionally doing their job, but we have to sort of correct what the problem is, and when it comes to the attitude of citizens to police and police towards citizens. Do a survey and you'll see - mistrust primarily stems from this fact that unprofessionally, unkindly behave and that they have such a relationship with citizens. I understand that receivings aren't God-knowing, but we have to keep in mind and reality, how unemployed he is, how unemployed he is. And that's an advantage, if it works in one state institution, especially the police, and it has regular incomes, and it regularly makes it easier to break. I agree, it can be done at this point 6), but maybe you should correct, you might as a pronoun to correct, to make some adjustments, to limit it to a calendar year, that in one year you can't do more than two or three similar violations or the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21796	The word has an MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21797	This is a really important chapter and I am not surprised that we have positive reactions from the president of the Security Committee of the Serbian Parliament. The most competent man to see the validity of the amendments submitted by us MPs to the SDP. I think, Mr. Minister, we can find a way out of this mess when it comes to the calendar year, which Mr. Mircic spoke of, in Article 164, where it is said that the government is closer to regulating disciplinary responsibility in the ministry. I think that the government and you as a resolution minister can find a solution through the regulation that concerns a certain period, whether it's a calendar year or something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21798	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 168 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21799	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 168 and suggested that this member be deleted. Why? In Article 168. The bill stipulates that "a police officer, or another employee, should the employment relationship cease if, during his work at the Ministry, there is a security disturbance from Article 111 of this law that would not have caused him to have a working relationship or to have been based on the existence of them at the time of the founding. Due to the case of security disturbances under Article 1, the decision on the termination of the employment relationship of a police officer, i.e. the second employee, shall be brought by the minister, on a reasoned proposal by the Director of Police, or by a official whose responsibility is to carry out certain tasks and tasks. In addition to the proposal, a security check referred to in Article 111(2) of this Act is also proposed as an integral part of the proposal. An appeal against the settlement referred to in Article 1 shall not be allowed, but administrative dispute may be initiated. "Ladies and gentlemen, in Article 22. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is foreseen: "Anyone is guaranteed the right to appeal and another remedy against a decision that is resolved on his right or on a law based on interest. ". Why isn't an appeal allowed? We believe the appeal should be allowed, not directed to initiate the administrative dispute. On the proposal of this member, no one, except that elder, will ever know what these security disorders are that a person cannot work in the police department and that his working relationship will end on that basis. In particular, the problematic provisions of Article 1(1) of this Article, with a subsequent security check, have been established that the interferences referred to in Article 111(2) have arisen. What will happen to a police officer, who has done business in the internal affairs authorities for 20 or more years, and someone finds out his father was a member of the Chetnik Movement of Draža Mihailovic, or let's say he is a member of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Tomorrow some other minister comes to Mr. Jocic's post and says, let's see if he's registered with us, and as usual security is registered and tapped, everything is being monitored successfully. It will be seen that he is a member of the SRS, can no longer be in the service of the interior authorities, or at the Ministry to work at any job. Ladies and gentlemen, if this member votes and remains in the proposal, I can tell you that the regulations are then retroactively applied, against the Constitution. If a man has worked for 30 years and someone tells him that it was him and that one, etc., and a man can no longer be because the elder estimated that he could no longer perform security services. As far as the whole of the law is concerned, it is not clear how education and education are missing from this law. In all the laws so far, at least those dating back 10 or 20 years, there were regulations that regulate the education and education of police officers. There's no such thing in this law. Whether a new law on secondary, higher and higher education and training and police courses is foreseen I don't know, but I haven't found or missed out on the law on education and education institutions that have been in place for years, which have worked and have been recruited by thousands and thousands of members of the police, and this school and this education has helped them so much that they are really experts today and that they can successfully carry out the work of the Internal Affairs Authority. We are surprised, perhaps the minister will later do something about improving the position of employees. I'm going back to that question, because it's a burning question in the police department. The burning question in the police is to improve the material position. Therefore, if the amendments of the SRS MPs were accepted in the voting day, the text would be improved and the material position of members of the Internal Affairs Authority would be improved, that is, the police.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21800	The word is from Ambassador Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21801	This is what we have put in place as an objection to Article 111 as amendments, and this is the basic idea of this amendment, as it appears in Article 168. That's enough, I'm free to say, clumsyly defined. Namely, it imposes a dilemma. Of course, we agree, there must always be post-control in the police system, but it has to be precisely defined. The follow-up control may rely on this type of control to be carried out when receiving the work relationship, but subsequent control should contain additional elements. These are no longer elements that apply to the registration of weapons, but are additional elements. Why? Because, for example, a member of the police can connect with criminal groups, a member of the police can work against the interests of this state by including active action within a foreign intelligence service. A member of the police may, by doing his duty, be guilty of law and subsequent verification has been found to have met the conditions for the termination of his working relationship, i.e. to take certain disciplinary measures, but that is what we also said in Article 111. Article 168 calls for Article 111, but it must be clearly explained what an additional verification is, which means further verification. It is perfectly normal for the minister to have discretionary rights and his associates to carry out checks and controls, to further check each employee. In addition to what reduced psychophysical abilities, which include this part of which you explained, that the high criteria for weapons registration, or carrying weapons, have some additional elements. We're going to get into trouble, because if we keep this as the basic criteria of Article 111, how in court are you going to explain that this person, for example, has stopped working because it was subsequently found that he was involved in criminal activities and what I was talking about. Therefore, the elements must be clearly mentioned in this Article 168, so the amendment is related to the amendment to Article 111, so the member should elaborate more precisely and define what the ex post verification implies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21802	On behalf of members 171 and Article 171 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's Messenger Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21803	We will agree that it does not matter whether it remains the name General Inspectorate or whether it is otherwise called the sector. It's about the powers that this sector has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21804	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic put together the title above members 173 and Article 173 of the amendment. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Members 174 and Article 174 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic submitted together. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Legislative Committee has submitted to Article 174 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have adopted this amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic submitted the amendment together. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's Messenger Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21805	I believe that the adoption of amendments submitted by the SPS MPs, which concern police work control, is essential to achieving serious police control, since the proposed solution violates the basic principle that no one can control himself. But before I explain what we wanted with the amendments we submitted, I will remind the minister and the public that the SPS has entered the government of Prime Minister Kostunica, which works with the support of the SPS, among other things, to help, i.e. to take active participation in the lighting of unexplained murders that have occurred in the last 15 years. Unfortunately, we have no answers to this question today, as MIP Inspector-General Mr Bozovic did not receive the approval of the minister of access to the documentation concerning these murders and these unexplained circumstances. I would like to remind you of a letter from the Public Security Resor, which came to the Bureau of Criminal Police, concerning the request of the Inspector-General for the provision of data on police activities during the 1991, 1993, 1996 and 1997 demonstrations, that is, events related to the killings during the nine-story demonstrations, the beating of SPO leader and his wife in June demonstrations and what took place in civil protests during 1996 and 1997 due to the election theft, when a member of the SP Starcevic was killed, a letter signed by Assistant Minister and Resor head Miroslav Milosevic, which said that those requests were sent to the cabinet of the minister for opinion and decision, and that they would only be handled accordingly. Unfortunately, no such answer has ever arrived. In order for such things not to happen in the future, we asked, among other things, for Article 175 to delete Article 5, which reads: "In order to carry out certain tasks of individual police control, in addition to authorised officials of the Internal Affairs Sector, the minister may also be in charge of other police officers in the ministry. "Station 5 significantly limits the effectiveness of the work of members of the Internal Affairs Department. Paragraph 3 of the same article stipulates that members of the Sector cannot interfere in the course of certain police actions or otherwise interfere with the work or endanger the confidentiality of police action, which is an actual solution that is sufficient and good. By eradicating Article 5, members of the sector and members of the police would be placed in the same position and there would be no overlapping in the performance of the business in its work. By adopting the solution set out in Item 5. The draft law on police in practice would cause serious problems. The primary task of the Internal Affairs Service is just to control the police and it is unnecessary to involve other ministry officials in doing these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21806	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21807	This is what the essence of these amendments is, not in their content, because the law does not provide for the function of the Inspector General, but the Internal Control Sector, but what is indicative, to amend to the same members and almost in the same text, Members of the SPO and G17 submit. So, the SPO, understandably, defends its amendments, explains for the simple reason that the function of the Inspector-General is more the result of a political inter-party agreement, and it is understandable that one of the parties in the framework of the agreement is now and wants to preserve the place. After all, it is not the sphere of interest of us Serbian radicals, but the essence is next. Representatives of the G17 Plus parliamentary group withdrew their amendments. As chairman of the board, what makes the idea of submitting amendments relating to the work of the Inspector General exactly the same as the SPO? Was that some kind of deal? Why am I saying this? Because it's very interesting and interesting, and if this is an inter-party agreement between two coalition partners, with the ignorance of the majority coalition partner, then we can suspect that some compromise solutions are contained in this law. If it's done on base, don't get me wrong, telepathy, it's something weird. How can the newly formed party think the same way as the SPO. This is what the public needs to know. Why? Because we held a debate on the Committee, where there was also a representative of the promoter, or minister with his associates. In principle and in detail. If he doesn't open his suspicions, then we need to know what the basis is and the reason to submit such amendments. Are these individual cases, so on the basis of individual cases, we're making one legal act? If so, let us tell the public in the future, all depending on the demands, the goals of the political parties involved in the police, so will the laws be passed. If not, if these are individual cases which the colleague also states, for the reason that a political party is persistently searching for explanations of some events and cannot get an answer, then these answers do not contain, nor can they be obtained from legal projects. They can be obtained by thorough investigation. Or to finally listen to the SRS' suggestion to form survey committees. Do not reject such a proposal because it is proposed by the SRS or any political party. The committees have a purpose, especially when it comes to this sort of thing. Let's take that chance. Here's a chance to re-examine all the circumstances related to the assassinations, to accidents, to deaths, to cases of many. We have co-operation with the Ministry, we have correct co-operation. One part of the board worked on Sabela's action, but the board was not authorized to review cases like this. Let's form a survey board. Now you have a majority, form such a single survey board, so let's see, let's re-examine the Ibar Highway, as well as everything. But also in public to publish all the data and facts that we come up with, that the public knows. And not to play, so in this game we simply press or calculate what a legal project should look like, to meet some of the human needs of individual political parties, then we need to resuscitate or invent a function. I am saying this because of the public, because the function of the Director and the Directorate has been well under suspicion and has been the subject of analysis, until amendments to the Legislative Committee have been adopted, where a clearer and much clearer and more detailed function of the Directorate and Directors, as well as how they are chosen. We Serbian radicals everything we learn, whatever data we get and everything we talk about on boards we inform the public, there's nothing to hide. If this is an agreement, the result of political or party trade, it should be made public. Why? Because this law is significant. We can comment on the amendments. Finally, with the SRS no more amendments, I would like to say that we tried and tried to correct these legal provisions through the amendments, but in the principle debate and in the discussion which was conducted on the Committee, and in particular in the Assembly, we wanted to help the legislator. As far as we have succeeded, you can see for yourself that certain amendments were adopted by the minister. It is the great success of an opposition party, and I am not only pointing out for success, but also understanding by the ministry. Whether they will be adopted at last depends on the congregation's majority. I think the SRS will go with this logic to improve the legal provisions of the vote on amendments and other parliamentary groups, as we have in this individual debate helped colleagues to understand their amendment now, and we hope to adopt it in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21808	Thank you, Mr. Mircic, for sharing our misunderstanding with us. Replica, Mrs. Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21809	Mr Bozovic did not ask for anything that was not in his power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21810	Here you are, MP Goran Jaksic. I apologize, but there is no reason to praise too many police ministers, in all legal acts, almost all ministers accept amendments from all parliamentary groups and this is part of our joint success and work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21811	Members of Parliament, citizens, I must first of all respond to this amendment to a respected colleague, president of the Security Committee. I claim very responsibly, because I am one of those who wrote these amendments and I am a member of the Security Committee, and that absolutely no trade or any agreement existed when it came to amendments, nor was it with the SPO, nor was it with the minister's party or with the minister himself. I'm going to repeat this once again, absolutely claim what I'm saying, that we have the same opinion about individual solutions, is absolutely the most normal thing, because it's about legal solutions that are very often explicitly given and can be interpreted and corrected in the same way. In certain points, those who are a little more concerned with matter know what I'm talking about, and often legal matter is a little close to mathematics, so it's very often two and two four, both for one MP and one MP group, and for, I repeat, a respected colleague once again, often two and two four, and when it comes to amendments, or certain points in the bill itself. The G17 plus withdrew amendments, which in part resemble amendments submitted by the SPO, because we received several meetings with the minister quite enough explanations on the very concept of this part of the law. It's part of the law relating to internal control. The basis of our amendments was the change of that internal control from the Internal Control Sector to the General Inspectorate. Both of these variants, so-called. internal controls, but not by name, but by general internal control, exist as solutions in the laws of several countries, primarily Europe, or the world. In some countries, in some legislation that regulate this matter, the Internal Control Sector is present. In some other legislations and other laws, the General Inspectorate is present. In both countries, both police and other police, internal control works well with both solutions. Our withdrawal of the amendment was just about the fact that, with further explanations, the minister's more precise explanations, we accepted the possibility of being in line with those countries, those police that would have organized internal control within the Internal Affairs Sector. It's just that. All amendments in the further part of the text, amendments G17 plus, were related to that first part, i.e. to the organisation by the Inspector General. Since we agreed with the minister that it is possible for other countries with the Internal Affairs Sector to work and internal police control, we have come to terms with this proposal that was made in law and agreed and therefore we have withdrawn all amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21812	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Mr. Markovic, I'm referring you to these two plus two equals four, take that plank constant. On behalf of Members 176 and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic submitted together. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 177th and 177th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Blagica Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21813	We asked for the erasure, among other things, of Article 17.7, which reads: "If there is a reasonable risk that the internal control of the work of the police over the application of its police powers established by this or by other law would make it impossible or significantly difficult for them to apply or endanger the life and health of the persons applying them, the police officer may, until the decision of the minister, temporarily reject the examination of the documentation, the examination of the premises and the provision of certain data and information". Deleting attitude 2 is proposed because it essentially restricts the work of the Internal Control Service in taking business out of its jurisdiction. Police officers are given broad discretion over the sector that before the Secretary of the Sector's decision, they refuse to look at the documentation, review the premises and supply of certain data and information, thereby blocking the sector's investigation into a particular case and paralysing its work in practice. Since the Department of Internal Affairs has only been subordinated to the minister, this would be a violation of the hierarchy and subordination at Ministry level. The proposed solution is not functional, as from the moment of refusal of insight to the decision of the minister may take valuable time to collect evidence of possible responsibility (criminal, criminal, disciplinary) of police members or evidence could be destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21814	National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, following the same amendment. It's the right of an MP to speak on behalf of the amendment. The MPs here talked about the amendment and because they are confident that the parties are proposing amendments, and anyone who works in the Assembly knows that no party is proposing amendments, but MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21815	Since there have been some misunderstandings about how amendments and possible support are being made, I must say that the SDP agrees with the amendments submitted here by Mrs Kostic on behalf of the SPO and which they submitted, and then withdrew, representatives of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. We couldn't stand them because they already exist. We didn't want the same texts here in front of different parliamentary groups. If we have one text that's acceptable to everyone, we're all talking about it. Now, I'm talking about an amendment submitted to Article 177 and it's about the intensity of erasing the position of the 2nd member. We feel it is necessary, because if this law sets up internal control as a service within the Ministry, then there is no doubt that the supervision of the work of this service is carried out by the minister himself. However, it is particularly a question of what powers of the internal control service are given by this law. What do I mean? In attitude 2, it comes out, as counterpart Kostic explained, of a rare situation: to prevent or significantly make it difficult to apply police powers or to endanger the life and health of persons applying police powers. I don't know if a situation like this could arise when the conduct of internal control could endanger the life and health of a police officer who's been controlled. I find that in a practical life, in a practical situation that is not possible. Whether it can disable and make work difficult - it can, but I think it's an extremely rare situation. I ask the question what's better: should the law allow an internal control officer to be able to carry out his internal affairs until the end of the controls or to allow disabling internal control over the work of the police and its services by the rest of this attitude? Although a solution is left that the minister has the last word in the disputed situation, it does not say anything within the time limit of the minister's arbitration. However, and that there is this deadline and that it is as short as possible, that this deadline, for example, for 24 hours, is the question of how much is possible, in what time-flow, to do as much abuse, because whatever time-limit you give, it can be used by a particular person who is in the interest of concealing certain evidence and destroying it. For these very reasons, I believe that today we are not able to address murder cases of quality, which we were just talking about, cases that have been lagging behind us from past times. We're talking about some kind of thorough investigation, but it's only possible based on quality legal solutions. These legal solutions should be of quality in this sense to prevent future repetition of such situations, which is that evidence of certain crimes is being destroyed. I believe that if this position remains 2 in Article 177, it is possible for someone who is in the hierarchy, as counterpart Kostic said, under the minister, to abuse, not to say they will, but can abuse, hide or destroy evidence. That is why, and especially when we have one general place, and I think it may also be the minister to confirm, which often repeats it, and Mr. Mircic repeats, that there is a lot of corruption in the police, that there are a lot of abuses in the police, and that it is necessary for us to bring positive legal solutions that are precisely going to cut them down, as you say, to make them impossible. Of course, it doesn't leave out a minister in any way. (President: Time. ) I also cite an example from practice. Free Pažin, who served as deputy head of the Department of Blood and Sexual Delicts, and one of the three detainees from the Special Court's indictment, who is charged with criminal association in the Zemun Clan, is no longer a prisoner, as we all know, a few days ago he was released, in his defence he called that Dusan Spasojevic, called Shiptar, was just an operational link. I ask the question, will such people, employed in high places of police, and possibly with regard to criminals, please, or will this position of 2nd Article 177 fail to carry out internal control over their work and give them the opportunity to destroy the evidence that exists against them. That is why Article 2 if we really want to decriminalise the police, which we all call on so much and what the European institutions are referring to, so the EU we are seeking, we need to allow for real internal control that will have all the mechanisms to prevent them. Since we are nearing the end of this debate, I am obliged to say that, regardless of being a member of the opposition party and no matter how much I disagree with some of the things in this law, I express my gratitude to the minister, who is one of the few who has spent literally all the time with us - the MPs. Unfortunately, we do not often have the opportunity to have that kind of treatment by our ministers. Of course, as someone who's a constructive MP, I want to stress that in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21816	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic, you are rarely present, but ministers often are. Don't worry, it says statistics you shouldn't trust. The word is Minister Jocic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21817	This example that's spoken, there's an MP right. I have to say, oftentimes, police officers have justified their association with people from the crime scene by saying it's an operational relationship. However, it is known that the operational link is based, it is known that a co-operation relationship is being established, it is known that the relationship with the informant is based. There's also a procedure that isn't conducted. We've now updated an instruction on operational work, where you know exactly how to run an operating connection file or an informant. If that were the case then, then it would be known that criminals can't be best friends, they can't be best friends, they can't be best friends, they're going to get engaged, and we can't figure out what the police are, what's a criminal. You're absolutely right about that. But there are sublegal acts that have been passed. This law also provides that all these sublegal acts have so far been conducted under "official" and "state secret", and that you can see them in the official messenger. So you're going to see this, you're going to see patterns as they look, you're going to see everything that represents subtly running this business and the methodology that doesn't allow what you've mentioned. Article 2 is likely to be rarely applied, but if we have an undercover investigator who's in some crime business, then he's under control, and his life can depend on this break-in, break-in of his position, then this attitude protects the deconspiracy and protects him from the dangers that a man can face. Normally, until the minister's decision, this can't be secret, it can't be forgotten, it can be removed, but it can, however, open and create a small-time intermect to do the thing or explain what's going on. Simply, these are rare situations where zealous control could endanger something called secret police work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21818	Thank you, Mr. Jocic. One more apology, I made a joke based on statistics that were present these days, but also my respect for the responsibility of both ministers and other ministers and MPs. It was just a joke. Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. You're right, it's not correct to report statistics to the ladies. On behalf of members 178 and member of the 178th Amendment, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic together submitted. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Members of the 179th and 179th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanović and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 180 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 180th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic, Stanisa Stevanovic and Milan Ninic. The proposing representative did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Defence and Security and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Goran Jaksic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Defence and Security accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Legislative Committee submitted to Article 193 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Miloljub Albianic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Miroslav Zivkovic and Marko Krstin. The applicant's representative did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Defence and Security has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Legislative Committee has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 195a be added after Article 195a. The proposer's representative and the Defence and Security Committee have accepted the amendment, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Since we have completed a review of the draft law in particular, does the representative of the proposing Dragan Jocic, the interior minister, want a final word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21819	Very briefly, since we're tired, we've worked very hard today. First of all, I thank all the parliamentary groups, and the opposition and positions, the Government, for its sincere work, for a fully sincere contribution to improving this law and full awareness to understand its importance. What I will remember about this law is that amendments have been accepted by almost all parliamentary groups. 23 amendments have been accepted. I thank the MPs and MP groups who have withdrawn their amendments. 6 amendments to the G17 plus, 5 amendments to the SRS, one SPS amendment, one amendment to the Social Democratic Party. One more time, thank you. I'm not saying and I'm not suggesting that this law could do anything. It was hard to write a law that would bridge the old solutions, which had been scattered, which were fluid and which treated the police as one organisation that had to appear. You even have some areas and some powers that haven't been put into question since 1990-91. This is what we wanted to code everything that was scattered, to solve so that the position of the police doesn't fall below that level we inherited and to open up opportunities for better solutions. In any case, no matter how long this law lasted, this assembly, or all the MPs who spoke today, promise to read very seriously, participate and work on the amendments, and not to obstruct or reduce the importance of this law, but to sincerely contribute to its better final appearance. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-10-0.u21820	Thank you, Mr. Jocic. After we have conducted a review of the draft law on principles and details, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, details and in general. Since the National Assembly held a debate on all points of the agenda, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Monday, November 14, 2005, at 10.00 p.m., as a day for voting on all items of the agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I thank once again for the responsibility and efficiency of all MPs and representatives of the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. On the basis of official records of the presence of MPs, 134 MPs attend. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 112 MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the start of the working day. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radojko Obradovic. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, today we will move to a decision, at 10:30. Thank you.
