ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18224	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, more than a third of the MPs are present in the hall, which is why we have a condition to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the session of MPs Marko Djurisic and Dusan Mrvos. We are continuing the original search on the 1st and the only item on the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the importance of the Law on the founding of the Public Enterprise for Research, PRODUCTION, TRANSFERATION AND TRANSPORT OF NAFTA AND Natural Gas (contribution in principle) The Word has a National MP, Slobodan Mihajlović. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Svetislav Krstic, followed by Milorad Mircic. Here you go, Mr. Michaelovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18225	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have today again on the agenda one topic from energy, although last time we received a promise from Mr. Minister that we would not meet this year. It's good that we're on this, but it's not good how we are. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out some procedural failures related to putting this point on the agenda, i.e. some illegal decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and concerning the establishment of two public enterprises and one company. Namely, the founder and owner of the NIS is the National Assembly. I think this decision to set up two public enterprises and a stock company came at a time when it was legally unregulated, because it was to be done by the National Assembly. Before the founders changed, or the owner, this decision was made. Also, in the preparation of this law on the termination of the Law establishing a Public Enterprise for Research, Production, Processing and Transport of Oil and Natural Gas, I think the parent board must give its opinion and give its position at the Committee's session on this matter. Nevertheless, one other committee, by interpretation, would like to know whose decision to accept and support the government's proposal to pass this law. For the same reason I ask – why did not another committee also give their position, let's say, of the Committee on Gender Equality, since in Article 53. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia states that the Committee on Industry is considering the draft laws, second regulations and general rules and other issues in the field of industry, except for the food industry, the development and production of all kinds of energy, as well as in the field of mining, geological and seismological research. I show dissatisfaction, not only as a member of the Committee on Industry, but as a full membership, with regard to the inactivity of the Committee on Industry and not taking certain measures in relation to its tasks. I'd like to hear this question answered by the president, and about today's subject. I don't think anyone heard a speech from the minister yesterday, except the people who followed the session through small screens. For this reason, what the media transmitted and what I heard from the people who watched the transfer, I think the minister insisted that the bill be adopted very transparently and supported by the union. On this occasion I can openly conclude that it does not stand, because no one knows what will happen to NIS after this and what privatisation will be made, in what way, in which time limits and with what interests of the state, which must be represented. Also, I don't know what union support means at this point, since I have here one conclusion of the NIS Association of Independent Unions, which disagrees with the government's proposal, nor with the government's decisions published in the official messenger regarding the establishment of two public enterprises and a company. What the Democratic Party insists should have already happened; for one such law on the abolition of the NIS law, so-called. The NIS war law was to follow a public debate and that there was one government strategy, or state in connection with privatisation, further development of NIS, which is not available to us, nor do we have any strategy in this regard. However, very, in a way, in secret and non-transparent manner, it happens that one law on the termination of the NIS law and the establishment of public enterprises is put on the agenda, I think, legally and illegally, to be published with effect from 1 October. I think this represents a quick and hasty decision, which can have inconceivable consequences not only for NIS, but also for the state and strategic interests of the country as a whole. During all this time, the National Assembly has not had a single report on NIS business, nor a capital assessment report, nor has any public debate been conducted on the reorganisation model, the privatisation of NIS. Also, there was no debate in the congregation on this subject. I think that the privatisation of NIS, which follows probably after a decision like this which is the beginning of some restructuring and a new NIS organisation, would have to contain a type of restructuring, where it is clearly, publicly and loudly said, what about the separation of secondary actions, with a reduction in the costs of all kinds, with staff selection, education of new staff, etc. as an integral part of one of these decisions, one such bill. It had to be clear that the development programme was defined, that in the course of that definition one serious adviser was engaged in relation to the further development of NIS. We don't know about privatisation when, in any way. I already said that. Will privatisation be carried out through the introduction of a strategic partner through recapitalisation, will 20-30% of the shares be sold, will the company's development take place from its own sources of funding, the introduction of investment banks, or with companies that are not interested in changing ownership? There is one general concern and mistrust in the intention and ability of this ministry and the government itself regarding this bill. In the previous period, we had a systematic destruction of NIS. Several times during the review of these energy laws, the Democratic Party pointed to the process, the existence of various affairs, the company's overindebted debt, by obtaining a large amount of oil without plan and need, more than 180m dollars, more than the NIS owed in early 2000. Company guarantees, pawned assets were also issued, without the government announcing whether or not it is familiar with and not informing the owners. The question arises whether the government itself knew and participated. Why NIS trading partners are not oil companies which are legal taxpayers in their countries, but are still different codes from the tax haven. In addition to the destruction of assets and certain activities, some things are also at risk, in a way to write off claims on someone's behalf. But it's still not public enough and without any insight whose interests are at stake. Credits are spent on future private distribution in retail. No claims are charged on entities in bankruptcy and liquidation. It is organised to sell the market as a resource, with no tender, and with the consent of the Government, or the Assembly. Harmful contracts are concluded, where the ground is actually being prepared for future legal entities and some future privatisation. Unprofessionally, raw oil is purchased and domestic processing is exploited. It's not about development models, it's about the abuse of authority, the power to shut down the company's NIS-based performance, and the sale of assets and layoffs is about to take place. After a statement by the minister that this ministry and the government are without affairs despite a series of affairs already shaken through the media by the domestic public, I will mention only some. In this regard, I think that trust and concern not only of the DS but of some other parties in this House, as well as of the entire domestic public, and especially of NIS workers, must have room and this time should be made clear. I'm going to mention buying Syrian oil, whose epilogue we haven't seen yet, and we don't know the exact number regarding the damage done to the NIS and the state of Serbia in general. Also, illegal installation of V.D. The director of the NIS when this could no longer happen and the indifference from the government of the Republic of Serbia. I will also mention an attempt to co-operate with Slovenia's Petrol, where the NIS retail network could easily be sold, which is otherwise hitched to by certain NIS people, which again points to possible privatisation and the way it would be done, which makes it fully justified to take a loan from the Hipobank under conditions that are not in the interest of not only NIS but also of the Serbian states, because, just to remind you, the amount of the loan is 50m euros, and was taken without any previous financial analysis. It was given provided that 20% of traffic goes through this bank for ten years and that the daily traffic of NIS is about 2m euros. Then you can see for yourself what credit it is and what consequences it is. Not to mention further contracts concluded by the NIS without any control, such as the "Profile" firm in Belgrade, regarding production and photography of the lease of space, totalling 32,174,000 plus VAT. Not to mention how money was spent in connection with the needs of propaganda teams and NIS donations, where seven million dinars were granted by the government, and 57 million were spent, where V.D. Director Zeljko Popovic spent another 33m dinars, giving about a million dinars of donations to a club and so on. After all this, the lack of trust in the proposal for this law, which is now on the agenda, is justified, not because of the law itself which is the logical consequence of further reorganisation, i.e. the restructuring of NIS, but of what follows inevitably, knowing the pressures of the Government, i.e. the competent ministry and the Ministry of Finance, come from the IMF, but that we are not prepared for such a thing at all. So it's justifiable that what happens after this, what happens in September, that is, by the end of this year in terms of privatisation and whether this is skillfully managed by someone's hand, that property in NIS, as a national company, comes in a very perfidious and fast way for some cheap money or for funds that do not correspond to the values that NIS has. What we have with an estimate of 31 May of this year, so about 1,200,000 dinars, I think that the market value, I think it's higher, and I can see that in the press it mentions some amount of 1.6 billion euros, so in a way that the privatization of the maltene happened after this. I think that this had to be preceded by a public debate, a law on the privatisation of NIS, after which the Assembly and the state would be sure that this privatisation of a national company, as the strategic most important companies in the energy sector besides the EPS, would be carried out in the right and only possible way, where the country's strategic interests would be fully represented, where we would know what would happen in the last days of privatisation compared to the very beginning. For this reason, the DS parliamentary club will not vote for this law, because we believe that it had to be preceded by the NIS privatisation law, or one public debate in this home, after which we would all be sure to give up or sell something, but that the interest of the state is not at all damaged.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18226	The People's Messenger, Svetislav Krstic, has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18227	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, it's a shame Mr. Minister left. He said he'd be back. I wanted to talk to him. We're the landers, the Banacans, and he spoke very quietly and very slowly yesterday in his opening statement, and that's not a feature of our Banacans, we speak loudly and slowly. About five minutes, the minister explained the reasons for passing this law and no one heard it from the MPs. A few days ago, his colleague, the finance minister, explaining the Law on the Rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, exhibited more than two hours, perhaps because he was an assistant magistrate and the minister doctor, so he needed to be more prominent, but in any case it should have been vice versa. Why? Because the law that we are talking about today is more important than the Law on Budget Rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia. The law on budget rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia says money is being spent from the state register, and the law we're talking about today should be said to be filled with state cash. Here, look, this is the budget rebalancing law, so the money that someone needs to fill up is being spent. There are 192 sides, and this is the law I'm talking about now, which we're discussing, which has one page, and that's the law on how to reorganize the oil industry of Serbia, which is in charge of filling this register. It's not really easy in a country where we have this kind of proportion in budgeting and budget spending. The arguments presented by Mr. Minister in yesterday's exhibition are very soft, inconclusive and inconclusive, especially for those who understand the problem of the oil industry's development. It is unusual that the whole process of transformation of the oil industry does not involve people most professional in the business. That is why it is no wonder that those who know this issue, and also the vast majority of employees in Serbia's Oil Industry, disagree with the proposed solutions. The impression is that the whole work on transformation and reorganisation of NIS has been done by people who do not know enough the oil industry of Serbia and who have been told in advance what must be the final result of their work. To illustrate what I'm talking about, I'm just going to read you the name of the first public enterprise. He's pretty long and it's not easy to remember. It says – a public oil transport company by pipeline (and I don't know what oil could be transported if not by pipeline) and the transport of oil derivatives to products. It could be said much more elegantly – a public company for the transport of oil and oil products. It's just a small illustration that we already have clear evidence in the title of the law that this is not exactly what people who know this issue are doing best. What is the purpose of this law? The aim of this law is to break up the Serbian oil company and privatise it, which, as things look like, should be in the spirit of the present privatisations, which have already been called Burzers, godfathers, etc. When it comes to privatization, allow me to do a brief digression to point out a political demagogue very often heard in public, and also for this assembly speaker. It is constantly said that privatisation must be completed by 2008. It is not only demagogy, political and economic, but rather very dangerous deception and manipulation of the public and citizens of Serbia. Privatisation is a process that runs and does not end within a given deadline. How else do we explain that, let's say, in one France, 56% of the country's capital and material goods are in the hands of the state. If an economist or politician in France said in any country that privatisation must be completed by that deadline, for him and for his party, not that no one would vote, but would probably be sent to some observation. But for us in Serbia, it is thought that we know nothing and that we will swallow every hook or that we have no choice, so, for God's sake, we must accept or taste everything that is served us. It's happening with us, so-called. Argentine script. For information, to know exactly what is meant when we say the Argentine script, it is that in Argentina 2% of the population owns 98% of the capital and the natural and material resources of the entire state. If this law on the abolition of NIS is applied, we can be expected to have similar things happening. Let me explain what the essence and purpose of this law is. Three companies are formed from NIS. The two companies are public enterprises, which will say they are state-owned, and the third is a stock company, which will soon become the subject of privatisation. The government claimed it would not allow the management of state-owned enterprises, such as NIS, EPS, etc., to be taken over by someone else. We Socialists are now in favour of such a concept, and that is one of the basic reasons why we supported this government's time. However, two public enterprises that will remain owned by the state represent less than 10% of the current NIS value. More than 90% of the current material and economic potential of NIS is part of a third company, which will undoubtedly be privatised. So it's very important to say that 10% is in these two public enterprises. That's where they are, what we oilmen say, tubes and something about gas production. All that other stuff, research, production, processing, traffic, etc., over 90% of the current NIS, is in this third company that will be the subject of privatisation, who knows what. You don't know anything about it, and we know why you don't know anything about it. To be clear, we Socialists don't mind privatising this stock company for research, production, processing, oil distribution, oil derivatives and natural gas. If a strategic partner were to be found for it, some world-wide oil company that would be able to capitalize on technological modernisation and thus gain ownership, then we would all accept it. That's something that would be necessary. Namely, our two energy refineries in Panchev and Novi Sad cannot produce gasoline and derivatives that are European quality. In order to achieve that, more than $400m needs to be invested. This kind of privatisation would certainly help NIS, with the majority package being controlled by the government, or the state. As for the oil industry of Serbia, it is an opportunity to remind me that it is completely exhausted by the long-standing sanctions it has imposed on its shoulders by spending its substance, and is then severely destroyed during the savage NATO aggression. An exact figure will illustrate this unequivocally: the damage from NATO bombing of Serbia's oil industry is $1.7 billion. That's too much for our entire country, because our gross national income is $14 billion, let alone for one company, or for the oil industry of Serbia. The NIS workers managed to rescind the effects of NATO bombing within a record period of time. The salaries at NIS are less than they've ever been. For several years, oil industry employees' salaries have not increased. The NIS employees are now terrified of the upcoming privatisation. Why are they shaking? Because experience in Serbia so far related to privatisation and transition shows that these processes are very unfavourable for employees, i.e. workers. A large percentage of workers remain jobless and are found on the labour market and on the burden of social services. This should not happen in any way with the oil industry of Serbia, as the cost of salaries of NIS employees rarely exceeds 6% of oil industry revenues. However, the current government, in the image of the labour minister, has repeatedly pointed out that there are more than 40% of surplus employees in public enterprises. That is why it is hard to trust SDP and counterpart Nestorovic that they oppose NIS privatisation. They obviously didn't say that until recently. Since Covic, who we Socialists have thrown out of our ranks, has changed the story, because Covic understands that this government is slowly but surely going into the sun, so he is looking for a new political maneuvering space. Unfortunately, everything that has been going on lately in NIS and around NIS suggests that the same privatisation scenario as has been expected so far. This means that a pair of tycoons will grab NIS for cheap money, with the help of their speculative capital, and get rid of a significant part of the employees. Instead of developing production, they will focus on oil imports, primarily derivatives, completely marginalising domestic production and processing. The epilogue is this: our country is becoming even more dependent on imports of energy, its external trade deficit is increasing and a large number of unemployed are already joining and a significant number of NIS layoffs. I don't think I should keep counting. Tens of the highest-quality experts have already left the NIS, found employment abroad and have salaries, say, one engineer, geologist, miner, has salary abroad, in oil companies, seven to eight thousand euros a month. These are also high wages for Western European standards. The production of domestic oil and gas in the last few years has dropped by more than 30%. The trend of further decline is even more pronounced, so much damage has already been done to NIS by the wrong policy. This law can create conditions for NIS to finish, to become an easy prey of transition profiteers. Unfortunately, the law, which paves the way for the privatisation of NIS, also opens the way for the devastation of the economic resources of Vojvodina and Serbia. All banks in Vojvodina are privatized or are on their way to do so. Their owners are banks from abroad that will get even richer with our money. Many companies of vital importance for the province and Serbia have been privatised, and these are the new owners from the former Austro-Hungarian countries. Currently in Vojvodina, there is a market for arable land, buying foreign companies and domestic tycoons again. The tycoons will resell the country for more money tomorrow, so very quickly the grant owners of the largest natural resource of Vojvodina and Serbia will become foreign companies and foreigners. The oil industry of Serbia, whose capacities with 95% are located on the territory of Vojvodina, this law will come to an end, and the plant is moving from Novi Sad. Because of all this, trust with the government is at a very low level. We Vojvodina Socialists have promised NIS workers and our voters that we will not support this privatisation of NIS. We will keep our promise. We support justifiable disdain and protest by NIS workers and warn the government that "the gift has exceeded the measure". All real indicators suggest that this government is no better than the previous one, for whose destruction we are socialists and supported the current government. Among the Socialists, more and more citizens are seeking to suspend the SPS support of the government. I can say that we will ask for a session of the main SPS board to be scheduled, with a request to reconsider the SPS's relationship with the government. It should also be noted that individuals in the government have long enjoyed absolutely no trust from the vast majority of citizens. First of all, there is thought of Labus, Dinkic, Vuk Draskovic and similar. No one accepts the explanation that the SPS supports Kostunica and the DSS, not Labus, Dinkic and G17 plus. It is clear that politics in this country is not run by Kostunica and the DSS, but by Dinkic and Labus. Dinkic grabbed all the power and played the role of the bankruptcy manager of Serbia; Labus, former president of the Self-Government Economics Association and author of the book "Self Management and Social Property" and the book "Equity Prices in Self-Government" without mentioning the sugar re-export affair, "Knjiz Milos", "Erikson", etc. To that extent, they've been compromised that they should leave the government. There's no use talking about Vuk Draskovic. Today, he would not vote for him if he were given a chance by chance, even the late General Draža Mihailovic. The tactics of Mr. Kostunica's rule are based on one basic assumption, which is that new problems are suppressing the old. Our people call it stalling. However, time has passed and some problems must be solved in Serbia. In the end, I'm going to take the chance to warn you that the last train is to change something better. Otherwise, don't count on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18228	Here you are, Ljiljana Nestorović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18229	According to the Rules of Procedure, the name was mentioned to me by the previous speaker, very clearly: "Coworker Nestorovic". It's me, and I have the right to answer. I am Ljiljana Nestorovic of the SDP, and yesterday I spoke about this law and made it clear that the things my dear colleague who spoke before me today had been very keenly and unexpectedly agreed on. I'm glad to hear that. I just need to intervene for his observation that the SDP adopted that attitude recently. As a politician, you should follow SDP's work, given that one of the parties in the ruling coalition that you support, that government where SDP is a partner, is in the most responsible position of the Minister of Employment, Social Affairs and Labour. When we entered that government, we said the conditions to support it and to be, however, a minority partner. It's a policy towards The Hague, it's a socio-economic policy and it's a policy that will be led around the restructuring of businesses, because we think it's the political and economic most important issues for this country, regardless of which government it is. So we really don't agree with the fact that it's getting closer to the government's concept of giving up such an important strategic enterprise as NIS. We believe it is necessary to reorganise the company, to restructure it, to privatise it. What's controversial for us is this percentage of privatisation and the fact that it's going into all of this without one precise economic analysis, without a partial balance. We call on the government, which is its team, to respect both MPs and citizens and the problem and to do so and to carry out a complete analysis, to give us assurances why the NIS reorganised will work differently and better than it does now. We see that this process has started in JAT. We don't see any results. I think it's also good for the government to take a good look at the concept it was originally for, because it's obvious that it doesn't all agree mathematically as it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18230	The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18231	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to you on the basis of common sense, I'd say, but I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure it is. It's really hard to listen to my fellow MPs coming out here and criticizing practically every law that comes into the agenda and saying they're against this, that they're against it, that they're asking that the government and her team that worked on preparing this bill give some explanations. I don't really know what team it is, how many members this team has succeeded in this extraordinary law of even two members within a very short period of a year and a half to prepare. I'm sure he's a team of extraordinary experts. I would ask you, gentlemen, to stop with this hypocrisy, to decide to vote for these laws and to remain silent or, if you are already going out in this way and so harshly criticise these laws and solutions proposed in them, that at least you have the honor and when the day comes to vote then you vote in accordance with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18232	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Miloljub Albianic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the party G17 plus has been mentioned, and I am the head of the G17 Plus parliamentary group. No, the previous speaker, and you called in the Rules of Procedure. As for the government of the Republic of Serbia and ministers from G17 plus in that government, I am responsible for telling you that the government has firmly continued reforms in the economy, reforms in the economy, and one of the important facts is the restructuring of public enterprises. And if it was done before, when the time was right, it would have been even better. It is clear that in the restructuring of public enterprises, basic activity must be separated from secondary actions and that secondary actions go into privatisation, but also to reform that basic, basic activity, to very clearly separate what is important and essential for public enterprises and for the state of Serbia in these public enterprises. Therefore, I don't know why this is being respected or the government of the Republic of Serbia respects the willingness to settle matters for the benefit of citizens, that public service, public services, public enterprises are even more at the benefit of citizens and that they are doing even better, that the state has more resources than that. That's the essence of the whole story. It happens very often, and I guess we know to whom the resolutions belong, that certain things are attributed to us by criticism, and that the essential ministers from G17 plus and the Deputy Prime Minister are not really in charge of these things. I ask that we take care of it, but also to take care of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole, because it does make every effort to do what it could have done a few years ago in a easier way, because the conditions were better. Of course, we must, in full cooperation with the international community and the IMF, meet certain things, and that is more difficult today than it was yesterday. If we wait till tomorrow, it'll be harder. Therefore, the willingness, courage and determination characterises the government, which must affirm and end the reform business in the state of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18234	Thank you. The Messenger of the people, Milorad Mircic, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, because of Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18235	Dear colleagues, we are discussing a very important law here, and we are witnessing that neither the minister nor any of his associates are sitting here and has not honored us at least to sit in this front row. Yesterday, we were honored by a silent, unsettling speech that no one could understand, so I tried to find out from the video what the minister was trying to say. Believe me, I couldn't even get the video to understand what the minister was trying to say. Perhaps it would be better if those who wrote to him eventually gave suggestions what he would say came for this pay phone to present their concept of NIS restructuring. They were here individually, just sitting in front of the survey board. This whole concept refers to one national company, a company that is of great importance to this country. NIS is something that, freely said, for most of its business supports the Serbian budget. We are now witnessing in such a short time of one absurdity – that the finance minister explains to us the surplus, the surplus revenue in the budget, and that the minister from the second portfolio, in charge of energy, tells us that this is necessary to do, and quickly, for the simple reason why we question budget financing and budget users. Of course, in this reasoning that he stated, there are still some arguments that would make a man complete the overall knowledge of those who prepared this material. This is because of the urgency of the reference to the unstable supply of oil products, and that the unsuitable way of organising the operation of the oil industry has already resulted in disturbances in the supply of the market to certain oil derivatives, thus jeopardising the smooth operation of agricultural works. The NIS Reorganisation Act has its own foothold for emergency proceedings because agricultural works have been disabled. A man just can't believe it. What the minister did here, and many of us understood, to say, is that by his vision, this company called or already called... Because I see a mood in most, no matter what some criticize, they will accept and vote for these two points. The vision should include two public enterprises and one company; two public companies whose activity will be the transport of oil – one public enterprise, and the other will operate gas transport. And thirdly, the company will deal with oil production, oil sales, oil distribution; the company will be formed on the basis of actions. The largest number of actions at first are always state-run, but shareholders are also those who are already largely in the NIS business policy, and this should not be hidden from the Serbian public. It should be said openly, it is Hamovic, Lazarevic and similar to them. This law was prepared earlier. This is not the wisdom of this government, nor its work. The law has been prepared since that bakalin from America, called Novakovic, was brought to the head of the NIS, to prepare the oil industry of Serbia, to destroy it, to devalue everything so that the minister and his associates would now have that privilege, to have the exclusive that he has given Hamovic and Lazarevic the satisfaction and to be the owners of the majority part of the action for small money. It doesn't exist anywhere, such a logic that a government through its government is destroying something that literally represents a national interest, it hasn't happened anywhere in the countries of transition. You guys are now running for the Nobel Prize. You and Sonja Biserko and the others can get the Nobel Prize free. You're destroying something where this country works most of the time. Energy, NIS and Elektroprivreda are all that's left of this country. How are you gonna do that? It's very simple. There are already known affairs about Syrian oil, many of them are already known: buying cheap oil, unquality and selling for a higher price on the domestic market. On the basis of the difference in price, it remained a certain debt to individuals and their companies. On the basis of this debt, they will tomorrow become the majority owners of actions in this stock company. How will these public enterprises be privatised? Right through that stock company. It is one continent that will be technologically and technically further connected. The continuity of debt towards these persons and their companies, i.e. owners, in that case, of the stock company, will continue and they will gradually take over the complete assets of the oil industry of Serbia, and that, to be understood, that property that is competitive, which they can sell. Don't live in the delusion that they care about doing refineries for us. You're mistaken, gentlemen. Just one example to give you. The Nirbogdan refinery in Hungary was the only producer of a special charger for telephone cables. When privatisation came, when foreign capital came, entered Hungary, when the transition took place, they ran out of refinery and no production. This is the production that brought millions and millions of dollars of foreign exchange inflow in Hungary. It is not the interest of foreign companies, and it is particularly not the interest of Hamovic or Lazarevic to work refineries. They're interested in importing oil and oil derivatives to create a monopoly on this market. They'll create it. What you're talking about is healthy competition, market conditions -- you'll lose the mechanism by which you can control them. You won't, gentlemen, because they will become majority owners of the sales network. All gas stations will be their property. You think those gas stations are gonna sell domestic oil? You're wrong. You're wrong. You're wrong. They have already shown that it is more cost-effective to import non-quality Syrian oil with higher sulphur content than to take domestic oil. Then, gentlemen, we Serbian radicals are asking how you're going to solve the problem of petrochemicals from Pancheva, how you're going to solve Elemir's problem, how you're going to solve the problem of all those chemical industries and process industries that use oil and oil derivatives as basic raw materials. Do not be fooled that you will solve social problems with excess employees from 500 to 1000 in the oil industry of Serbia. There's also Petrochemy Panchevo, and there's a complete city, a region that's collapsing. Why is it going down? Because the Minister and his like-minded national interest is equated with party and personal interest, and that is the essence. For you, the national interest, the state interest is only what is in your personal interest, only what is in the framework of party interest, it can be good for the state of Serbia. It can't, it leads Serbia to ruin, you have to break out of the claws of these powerful men, these frauds, merchants who tortured Serbia and the Serb people during the sanctions, the blockades, the shortages made enormous amounts of money, millions and millions of dollars, thanks to what they say and how they condemn the former regime... During that former regime, they only made a huge fortune thanks to the regime. Then thanks to sanctions, thanks to the blockade and inability of oil imports, and now they have a wide open door that they have earned on black, which is the grey economy put into legal, legitimate flows, that they are the owners tomorrow, that they are holding and blackmailing Serbia tomorrow and blackmailing the government, regardless of what composition and what political parties made that government. Gentlemen, I think it would be perfectly normal and natural, and I see, if they are consistent with their words as SPS representatives, that this bill be postponed for some future period. It's not so urgent that it should be October 1st. If you have any debts to sponsors, curators, creditors, Lazarevics, Hamovics, there are no problems, they will not lose if they wait for a better period, if they wait for a moment when the NIS restructuring concept will be made, when we will know clearly what it is to bring to the market, and what is the minimum over which the state must have absolute control. If you do this, gentlemen, quickly and incompletely, you will see, then you will be worse than Vuk Draskovic. Vuk Draskovic is the biggest traitor, but you will put us in technological slavery. We will depend on Vuk Hamovic and Lazarevic, and you, gentlemen of the office of ministers, advisers, vice presidents, will have to start a villa, you will have a pool and, as this life carries, you will be left without a villa and without a pool, and you have not even entered with intelligence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18236	The People's Messenger Sredoje Mihajlov has the word, and let the Messenger Meho Omerovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18237	Gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, here I am, since I'm from that area, right where the first well that was positive is; I was born Elemite, I've known "Naftagas" since the founding and I know the problem. You've mixed things up a little bit, and you want to introduce things to the public in a different way. "Naftagas", and not only "Naftagas", but everything in the technological and industrial process and, let me say, in IT, must be modernised, reorganised and adapted to market conditions, adapted to needs, adapted to the world and functioning according to some world standards. Naphtagas was inherited from the previous regime, so organized and so organized and now we want to bring it into order, to organize so that it can be competitive on the world market, to respond to the world's demands. So it's not the entrance to Europe -- we just want to be with you, we want to be prepared. The fact is that "Naftagas" is our largest company, most profitable, but the fact is that resources are not inexhaustible and it is not, as Mr. Mircic says, production. He's not producing, he's exploiting that oil, and one day it's going to be the end. So, "Naftagas" must have a vision, it must have a future. It is this government that wants to allow such a company to have a vision, to have the opportunity to be on the world market, to be competitive. As for these tycoons you're talking about, I have to remind you again: the tycoons we inherited from you. You've created them nicely, you've enthroned them, you've allowed them to legalize that property, and you've loaded it on our necks. So, this government hasn't had any tycoon since she got here, it's just that she got what you left her. Don't worry, this government won't do tycunization. So this government works transparently, responsibly, has a vision, respects standards. Besides, he knows what he's doing. You showed how you did it. All those problems, I agree with you, who exist, you've done it all. Now we've got to clean it up, clean it up, clean it up and suit the whole situation. That's why G17 plus is going to be for the organization of a big company. As a Banacan and as a man who is emotionally related to "Naftagas", I think he should have a place in Europe, in the world, and that's the company that should be our pride. That's why we're just trying to organize ourselves and bring her to that level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18238	Replica, MP Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18239	I didn't come out because of this man, I long ago promised from this pay phone that I would never comment on his speeches; it doesn't matter why, but the point is to deceive the public. Ladies and gentlemen, 25% of the total production and traffic of NIS is the maximum share of domestic oil. Don't tell those local stories – we were the first to have a drill, we from the area of this region or that region. It's not ours or your merits, it's a set of random circumstances. Where good luck if a single mother had given birth in a barn, at least they'd learn something in life. As for the existence of a company, it is one flossula that is being pushed through the public of Serbia, as we, by reorganising NIS, are in fact creating a powerful, large, strong company, where we will compete with European companies. It's just one frame. It's just one cape to implement the idea of those I was just talking about, which were the subject of discussion and discussion on the Committee of Auditors. Where does that logic exist? Refineries, technological and technical lags. Bushes, let's not talk about how many machines and machinery on the rigs are technologically and technically lagging behind. Who's gonna bet on it? What do you think, that competition is going to invest in that company to make her competitive? No, it doesn't. It doesn't make sense. You have a party task, you have a goal, as any of you, but what you need – you need a little logic, to sit down, read, ask these people. If you look at the estimates made by some quasiagents from Italy, some white-world con artists, you will see that these wells, which you proudly talk about, which you are so proud of, have not entered the total value of the NIS estimate. Where were you then? Which isn't the localist urge at the time, or I don't know how to medically define, work and say -- people, these didn't include real value; they steal us from the wrong assessment at the beginning. Who was doing the wrong assessment? Not those white-world hohstapplers, your directors. That's what the five-eyed revolution has brought us. These are the democratic currents sold in the US in fruit and vegetable buds, followed by energy ministers in Serbia, declared experts. It is a liquid for which we thank Milan Panic. You gentlemen are the ones who decide. (President: Time.) Leave those stories behind what you found. It is now time for realistically, rationally acting and passing a legal act to bring benefits to this Serbia. But obviously, the greatest benefit is that you, instead of such a two-point bill, make a decision to call the election. It will be a salvation for both Serbia and NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18240	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Let MP Dusan Petrovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18241	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the way and speed that we started the debate at the end of the working day before the end of the work day on a proposal from the Government that should end the public enterprise of NIS, every citizen of Serbia, and especially those employed in this large system, at the very least, are causing great doubt, I would even say why such a hasty, a day or two before the summer break in the Republika Srpska Assembly, wants to go with such a bill. I remind you, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted the bill on July 7th; July 14th is the head of a document that was filed in the office of the Serbian Parliament; on July 19th, late afternoon, the MPs received this document calling for July 20th. The peak of speed and haste is the beginning of yesterday's debate. The minister, we could all see for ourselves, tried in an incredible three minutes to explain why the government of the Republic of Serbia wanted to abolish the NIS Public Enterprise. In every normal state, and I guess we're all aware of the fact that we're trying to make Serbia a normal state one day, besides the citizens that are doing this, the greatest attention is given to something without which there is no life. I mean water and energy resources. If we had to abolish one of the famous agencies that we had introduced through previous laws, through various legal projects, we would have had a little more debate and a little more attention would have been paid to the explanation we heard here yesterday from the minister who, unfortunately, is not present today to us, not to the NIS. I think the minister had to give us an explanation worthy of this high house. The explanation we heard yesterday from the Minister, Mr Naumov, in the full three minutes, is an argument that offends the dignity of the Republika Srpska Assembly. Of course, all the stories by the proponent are stories based on the reorganization of this big company. We in the Social Democratic Party are talking about privatisation, because what we are offered is nothing but the first step towards the privatisation of NIS. All of this is, of course, in accordance with the law. Nobody slows it down. However, I remind Serbia's MPs and the general public, in particular, of the employees of this large system, there is no strategy on how the fate of the NIS will be resolved in the future. There is a reorganisation of NIS, but no serious analysis exists, which would support and prove it; to us MPs, we are not represented here, so that this system in the future might function better. All that is known is contained in the fact that huge surplus employees will appear and that many other employees, after such a reorganisation, will remain unemployed. Yesterday we heard the information that everything that we were offered was supposed to be transparent and that it was made in agreement with all the employees. I say responsibly, if so, why were the representatives of the union not involved in the creation of one of these NIS reorganisation projects? Their fates are here, the employees of a vast system that has nearly 13,000, like the oil industry of Serbia. None of the employees know who the surplus is, because it depends on the redistribution of jobs and systematicization. I have a few questions for the minister and the government of the Republic of Serbia, but since they are not there, I hope that the chairman, through the professional service, will ensure that the minister gets these questions and I hope that we will soon receive answers as MPs, but also answers that probably want to be heard by all citizens of Serbia. Where's the social program? Does he have one? He's gone. Is there a partial balance? It's not. Is it true that the value of the NIS Southpetrol building in New Belgrade in December 2003 was estimated at $100m, and in December 2004, only a year later, the estimate is $30m? Where did 70 million dollars go? It is about the same auditory house, "Deloitte and Touche", which led Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic to withdraw the second item of this extraordinary session before the Serbian Parliament's lawmakers last night to discuss the selection of an audit house for the final accounts of 2002, 2003 and 2004. How and how did 70 million dollars get lost? In this way, assumptions are created that the privatisation of the NIS by the state of Serbia is getting in the wrong way, which can result in such proportions that we will have a hard time removing them in the near future. Russian novelist Solženjicin called the period in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union when it joined privatisation "acceptation". This resulted in powerful tycoons, gas and oil owners in Russia: Berezovski, Hodorovski, Abramovich and similar. I am afraid that something similar is not happening to us in Serbia, and that is why the state of Serbia must maintain control of one such system as the NIS. Whoever owns that system has power. Do we, as the highest legislative home of the Serbian state, want to leave that power to another? I repeat once again, the Social Democratic Party is for privatisation, but it does not stand anywhere to which deadline it must be implemented. Then the logical question arises where and who is in a hurry, whether it is wiser, I ask you, to unload the oil industry of Serbia, and then sell it or find a strategic partner that will provide both adequate money and social programme. This is a proposal for us from the Social Democratic Party and, therefore, at this speed and without a valid explanation, which was left by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we MPs of the SDP will not vote for a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia that is being abolished by NIS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18242	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, all the laws the Assembly adopts of course represent an event in the life of one state, but since all the important events have their place in this life, there are some events that are more important than others. This law, and it will certainly come out, is one of the most important legal acts this assembly will adopt. There are, of course, more important: when parliament votes on the draft constitution, perhaps something else that really affects the lives of each of the eight million people living in Serbia, but in the order of the most important regulations, the law that will determine the fate of the NIS will be introduced. For what? The Serbian oil industry had over three billion euros in traffic last year, in the country as it is, our second, we do not have, which has 16 or 17 billion euros in gross social product. Everything produced in Serbia, every service provided, everything we can imagine is worth 16 or 17 billion euros. In this Serbia, NIS had a turnover of over three billion euros in 2004. What does that look like in physical sizes? Four million tons of oil, that's how much Serbia spends today, that's how much anyone who drives a car, that's how much all the transfer companies spend, that's how many planes, buses, whatever. For example, when in a few years this country has, after a good and intense development, a standard such as Greece or Hungary, more than seven million tonnes of oil will be spent annually in Serbia. Among other things, that's what this is all about. It is, of course, about NIS, 19 or 20,000 employees, it is also about current investments in Panchev and the New Sad Refinery, the pipeline and the pipeline, but this is about a market of potentially seven billion euros. The fate of that market will essentially determine the fate of eight million people living in our country. That's why this law is so important. Last year, NIS delivered about 2.5 billion cubic metres of gas to consumers. It is an important part of the system that affects the lives of people in Serbia. That is why it is important for the debate in the Serbian Parliament to be exhaustive, which is why it is important that all the facts that MPs should receive and be made available, which is why it is important, Mr. President, that at least Mr. Naumov sits here, and he found it difficult to listen to the MPs, but it is insufficient. When this law is on the agenda, the Prime Minister should sit here, the vice-president of the government in charge of the economy. Their lack of presence here and the way this law entered the congregation procedure says something's wrong. The emergency procedure is a law that will allow the privatisation of NIS, and of course there are arguments. There is no minister there to tell us – there is an agreement with the IMF, there are deadlines. We must have earned (and that, Mr. President, was also sent to you) by the Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Energy, to tell us what the character of these deadlines is. As a Parliament, we have no idea what the government has agreed with the IMF, or other matters, or pensions, or what should be with the NIS. So, according to the emergency procedure, the law entered, although the agreement with the IMF was signed, as I recall, a few months ago, so I wonder what the government of the Republic of Serbia was waiting for, two days before the end of this extraordinary session, I guess that MPs were caught by some holiday or fever of annual holidays, so I guess the government thought, Mr. President, that we wouldn't be here dealing with the NIS law. We'll deal with it, we'll deal with it in principle, we'll deal with it in detail, we'll deal with it as much as we can, because the least any MP in this assembly can do is exhaust any possibility of being searched for what's important here. It is not true what the Minister of Energy and Mining Mr. Naumov said, it is not true that this is not about the privatisation of NIS. It is about privatising NIS, because putting out of force of this law is a necessary formal-legal assumption that the state would enter the privatisation of NIS. That is why it is incorrect from the minister, and I hope he will answer that question, to deceive Serbian lawmakers and the public when he made one such claim yesterday in the opening statement. So what the Democratic Party expected as the least measure of correctness, the smallest measure of good taste by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the legislator of this law, is to present here a strategy for the restructuring and privatisation of NIS. This assembly is the perpetrator of the rights of the founders of NIS, and the owner of the NIS is the Republic of Serbia, that is, all citizens living in it. This assembly, by adopting a law on non-compliance with the NIS Act, waives its right to influence, as the owner's representative, what will happen to this vital state and social resource. When, honourable gentlemen, such a thing is already on the agenda, then I guess these 250 MPs sitting in the Serbian Parliament representing the Serbian Parliament, and until this law is put out of force, each of us is responsible for what happens to the oil industry of Serbia. I guess we deserved someone to come here and explain to us what the government was up to working with the oil industry of Serbia. No one in their right mind will say that things should not change in the oil industry of Serbia. They should change because it is necessary to invest large amounts of money in Serbia's oil industry. As I said earlier, a company that manages to make three billion euros under such difficult circumstances has huge assets. To make even more money, in order for the Serbian state to benefit even more from the company, for every citizen of this country to benefit as much as possible from the company, it is necessary to invest money in the oil industry of Serbia. The question is, how should money be invested in Serbia's oil industry? There are at least three or four very different ways that have been tried both in the surrounding countries and in countries that are not at the nearest distance with Serbia. Some of these ways are successful, and some of them aren't. Somewhere, national oil companies have indeed become the largest engine of development of companies where money has been invested, and in some, there are major problems, even in serious countries. Turkey is a serious state, so the court annulled the privatisation of the largest refinery, which roughly processes about 30 million tonnes of oil, nearly 10 times more than the whole of Serbia spent. We spend four million, and they only have 30 million tons in one refinery. Of course, Turkey has many more people. Here I am trying to explain plastically why it is so important that we as MPs know what the Serbian government is going to do with the oil industry of Serbia. We hear very disturbing news. Not as MPs, through official reports by the Energy Minister, the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but from newspapers. You probably heard that somewhere in Montenegro, the management of the oil industry of Serbia, or I don't know who already, is negotiating with the company Lukoil. What are they negotiating? They made a memorandum, and the memorandum is kind of an agreement. What does that agreement say? Who has such great courage that capital things, which will affect the fate of the state, work in such a secret and secretive way? (Branka Bosnjak, from the post: Ask Zivkovic. ) As far as I can see, Mr. President, MPs from G17 plus, especially this woman's section, are very interested in passing this law, so I wonder, they probably have some interest in or can give us a heads-up on what was being negotiated by the oil industry of Serbia with Lukoil.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18244	Mr. Petrovic, the whole country has an interest. Please explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18245	Mrs. Bosniak probably has information about that, so she'll tell us later. Of course, we'll talk about it another time. So there are at least three perfectly legitimate ways to restructure Serbia's oil industry. On the one hand, it is possible to recapitalise the NIS and capitalisation means it is necessary in the previous procedure to clearly and precisely determine in which part of the oil industry Serbia would have invested money. In order for that recapitalisation to be done properly and to have the chance to succeed, of course, it is necessary to have a clear idea of what the oil industry of Serbia is worth. I wonder, together with you, is it possible in 15 or 20 days to make an assessment of such a large system as the oil industry of Serbia? The Serbian Parliament has not received that report either. As far as I could see, also from the press, from a decision published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", a decision set up by the government by three companies that should live when this law is put out of effect, the oil industry of Serbia is estimated to be worth around 930m or 950m euros. The Serbian assembly, once again, is an authority representing the state of Serbia and which should have at least that elemental information that an authorised assessor has come to the conclusion that the oil industry of Serbia is worth this much money. In order for the capitalisation to be carried out, it is necessary to open a tender and to place in a clear procedure a different, probably international tender for investors to invest their money in Serbia's oil industry. Another possible method is the sale of a piece of action and such a model has already been applied in our immediate environment. Croatia sold 20% or 30% of the INA in one part, but there is a need to have a clear idea of what the oil industry of Serbia is worth, what is sold and how it is sold. There is a need to call a tender with fully clear conditions and with fully clearly defined obligations of potential investors. This model has proven to be good in several countries because... Here, Mr. Minister has honored us to appear here in front of the Assembly, so Mr. Naumov can establish here a good practice that ministers stop at the Assembly when they are on the agenda topics that are from their resolutions and at least stay here all the time, and not as finance minister – he showed up here for a few hours, and then he disappeared, he hasn't been in the Assembly for three days. Maybe he's negotiating with one of these foreign investors. So, selling a minority package of actions is also a method that has been tried in different countries and has proved to be a good path, but there is nothing without full clarity and it is not possible to make good capital entry into Serbia's oil industry unless it is fully clear how it seems. While this law is in force, it must be clear to this congregation, or it must be clear to the MPs sitting here. There is a third way and it is related to the conclusion of different business-technical agreements. I know, as many MPs here probably know, the minister and his assistant know for sure, that there are a large number of interested investors who have proposed, both to the entire oil industry of Serbia and to various companies within the oil industry of Serbia, to invest money by buying the products of the oil industry of Serbia with a very large grace period and opening a general offer that should be considered. I want to say a few words about what's very worrying right now. You, Mr. Minister, know that the oil industry of Serbia loses 10-15 million dollars each month. It is a loss of Serbia's oil industry, and the loss is confirmed by Serbia's CEO, making statements at different press conferences. As you know, Mr. Minister, in 2003 it ended up so that Serbia's oil industry had 100m euros in profits; it is not a high enough profit for Serbia's oil industry, but in 2003 profits were achieved. We all know that oil has accumulated on the world market, that major problems and major disturbances, but it is clear that it was possible to take measures that would lead to Serbia's oil industry in a position that there was no loss. Then I ask you, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that even before this law was passed, different privatisation negotiations are open, how is it that different parts of the oil industry of Serbia today owe to the Panchevo refinery over three billion dinars? The question arises, Mrs. Bosnjak, does this kind of debt affect the potential price of the Panchev refinery, and did the finance minister, Mr. Dinkic, say several times that exactly the Panchev refinery would be the first to be sold? How does this NIS business policy affect the price of the Panchev refinery and the New Sad refineries? Mr. Minister, why isn't there a gas excise charge for cars in this country? Do you have an answer to the question whether non-accumulation of gas excise duty and a major increase in car-gas consumption affects the fact that we today have 120,000 tonnes of gasoline in stock, in NIS deposits? What's $100,000 or 120,000 tons of gasoline NIS can't sell? Could that be worth $85,000? How, Mr. Minister, does that affect the price of the Panchev refinery, the refineries in Novi Sad, how does that affect the price of Southpetrol? Well, let's see what makes this rate, which makes it an estimate of NIS value in 15 or 20 days. What kind of great mind can establish the accounting value of NIS in 15 or 20 days? That should, Mr. Minister, be published in all the world newspapers dealing with finance and trade. It may be that whoever carried out this assessment has a big job somewhere abroad, so he can fix this country's trade balance, because he has such amazing abilities. When I speak at the very end, I will provide some more information that I think is important, let's say, about the energy balance, about who makes the energy balance in 2004 and 2005 for NIS. How do you solve the question of what the technological structure of our refineries makes 100,000 diesels missing and 100,000 tonnes of extra motor gasoline, and how does this affect NIS business and the potential price of NIS and NIS parts? Mr. Minister, let's talk a little bit about what the orders in the New Sad refinery and the Pancheva refinery are like. Let's see how much light oil is, more expensive than the one for which one and the other refinery were technologically envisaged, imported in the course of last year and what was given to suppliers of that oil as a commodity equivalent. All of this only given the potential value and the potential price NIS can achieve. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you this as rhetorical questions. You're not the one who decides about NIS, unfortunately. I know you're personally, that's what you're going to deny here or confirm, you've had a lot of reservations about everything that's going on with NIS. In addition, you are much more concerned with the EPS than with the oil industry of Serbia, but Mr. Minister, you are responsible for your portfolio and traffic and oil and gas production. I'm sorry to hear that this is what you have to do, but it's your choice. It's important to say. Mr. Minister, it's important to say some good things. The good thing is that with the EU, we have initialled an EU Energy Community treaty with the countries of Southeast Europe. The agreement was initialled and, if God so, it would be signed in October. By the way, Mr Dinkic didn't know it was signed, so you should keep him informed, that's what he said about this speaker. It is the first segment of our integration into the EU. So part of the energy system relating to electricity and gas is the first part of our social system that has the opportunity to integrate into the EU. But, Mr. Minister, he's having a hard time. The company formed by the government decision of the Republic of Serbia, which should be revived when this law is put out of force and when October 1st, in its framework it deals with both production and transport, and storage and distribution of gas, which opposes EU directives. On the one hand, Mr. Minister, you really go to Brussels and you really are received by the EU Minister for Energy (it is a big deal for the country) and you manage to fight for Serbia to paralyze a contract that this country in an important segment integrates into the EU system. Then at least tell us, Mr. Minister, who writes these decisions that violate the EU directives when it comes to your portfolio? So it has to be a special gas storage company. The state should not deal with gas distribution, but it should be done by distributors, but the state must deal with gas transit and must control what those who do so say – steel, therefore, highways through which gas passes between large consumers, whether they are business entities or large populated areas. At the very end of this part, I would also like to say something about an agreement with the IMF, which really represents a milestone at a time when something should be done with the oil industry of Serbia. First of all, I don't think it's any tragedy if in a day or a week, there's a moment when we get an answer to what's going on with NIS. On the other hand, I don't see any reason why we don't get those answers here by the end of July. Mr. Minister, when the government, or when those who have negotiated, assumes a commitment to the IMF to be in the Serbian Parliament by the end of July, passed a law that should support the decommissioning of NIS, in order to create an opportunity to form four companies, then, Mr. Minister, you must provide support in this parliament for that. I think this concludes that the smallest measure of good taste and the smallest measure in the country is that 250 people who make up this parliament are exposed to the NIS restructuring strategy, that 7.5 million people in Serbia will have an idea of what will happen to them in the future with one of the most important, if not the most important system that this country and this society have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18246	Word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic Please, no one called you. [[The People's MP Branka Bosnjak reporting for replica.]] We're doing it by law. It's mentioned your name with enormous sympathy and a desire to make a difference. It's not offensive. I'm reminding everyone, it's very important... Mrs. Bosnjak, let me finish. In no way is your name mentioned in an offensive context. As far as envy is concerned, MPs have the right to express envy for someone and it is not commercially punishable. We're working under the law here, and I'm only obliged to give notice. The next speaker will be Mr Krasic. The notice, please, must respect the dignity of the Assembly, and must respect the law, including the physical laws. When the minister who was here last night and today at the request of the MPs goes to attend the Committee that deals with this law, I cannot ask him to break the physical law and be present on the Committee and be present here. So that's the first law. Secondly, it must be respected, and of course I will not allow the Government to now tell the Assembly about the national strategy, when the Assembly adopted the strategy several months ago and ordered the government to implement it. We will no longer allow anyone to humiliate the congregation. Of course, I ask all MPs to learn about all the relevant facts brought by this congregation from the documents of that congregation, not the newspapers. Also, please consult the site, there is no Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. You know very well what the government's composition looks like and all the competent ministers respond to the president's call. The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared, and choose a line before that, but I warned you that you were not offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18247	I'm sorry, but I'm not answering because I'm offended; on the contrary, I'm just invited to say something and here's the thing, it's a pleasure. It's a great pleasure to be asked to give an explanation. I'm going to try my exposure to conjecture on the principles that my predecessor and the one who asked me to go out for the pay phone established. So, I'm going to turn to questions, and I'm going to address the assumptions, okay? Here, my dilemma is why my predecessor thinks and asks questions when it comes to privatizing anything, and in this case we're talking to ONIS, assuming that privatisation is a sign of equality of abuse, of dishonesty, of something incompatible. Now I'm thinking, is that the only principle on which something could be privatized? For the G17 plus privatisation party is something positive and good, it's new investments and that's progress. My next question is, why is a certain company, and in this case "Lukoil", mentioned in some negative context? So I have an assumption, given that in the previous term of the previous government, the predecessor who called me to go out for this pay phone had information that the privatisation of Beopetrol was done in the previous period, with the firm Lukoil, which is mentioned here. I assume you have some knowledge of how this firm works. I don't want to discuss things I don't understand. My profession is construction, and in this segment I'm going to ask myself, and yet by the principles of my predecessor's thinking, if we inform ourselves from the papers, then I have to directly link energy and construction. We also look at and read about the magnificent buildings of individuals mentioned that they may be connected in the previous government with some privatisations. So, most beautifully, I ask you not to put a sign of equality between your government and this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18248	Thank you. On what basis, Mr. Petrovic? Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18249	Mrs. Bosnjak, you don't understand what I'm saying, and I can't help you. Of course, privatisation is a positive process and it is not possible otherwise to bring enough money into the economy of this country but through privatisation. Privatisation must be clear, privatisation must take place according to clear rules. The privatisation of NIS must, while the law is in force, be presented to MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This, Mrs. Bosnjak, which you're not a lawyer doesn't excuse you for the fact that you need to know that we're the perpetrators of NIS property powers until this assembly passes a different law. Mr. Markovic came out and he replicated to me and he hurt the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to pay attention to that. I want to pay attention to what he said, and it's not true. Serbia is the only country in Southeast Europe to adopt an energy strategy. In that strategy, there is no single answer to these questions that we all ask together. Mr. Markovic, you're probably watching this on television, or maybe you're on some committee, so you can contact from the stenographic notes, so, Mr. Markovic, find me in the Serbian Energy Strategy by 2015 a proposal from the government to restructure and privatise the NIS, and I'll apologize deeply to you because that's not true. The second thing, I fully respect, and I didn't know, Mr. Minister, that you were on the board, but the thing is that the organisation of this assembly is to allow the government's authorised representative to be present at both plenary sessions and committees. I don't know what kind of energy and force is chasing the organizers of this assembly to do more things at the same time, for rationality. What is this rationality if we don't have an authorised representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here because he's in someone else's, too important, place? This is the inability to organize congregation work, not rationality and speed in the business of this body. So, Mr. Markovic, I answered this to you, and you come down whenever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18250	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the MP Branislav Rankic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18251	It all started practically on the day Goran Novakovic was elected prime minister of Dossovski, and Goran Novakovic's continuity was Kori Udovicki, and her natural continuation is the current minister. What unites all of them? Some force, you know, some force. Now, how do we define that force? That force has an organisational and financial aspect. The financial aspect, believe it or not, is the one from abroad called the group of international financial institutions represented, above all, by Mr Labus, and therefore by Dinkic. These are the 2001 agreements when a number of ratifications of these agreements were carried out in the Federal Assembly, and these agreements had very interesting annexes, with requirements expected from borrowers. So there was an annex -- we expect 400 companies to privatize next year, so they made lists, so they made estimates, so they included their experts in the formation of our ministries. This energy and mining ministry, or it doesn't matter what it's called, was overbooked by foreign experts in one period. Apparently, the state needs money, so since money is needed, everything and everything must be accepted. One of the conditions under which loans are granted was, firstly, that the price of electricity would jump and reach some European level, the European average, and then it was reported that we had given aid for the recovery of energy plants. The crown of all this – after the protest of miners and other protests, to remind you in 2002-2003 – was in October 2004, when the almost unchanged initial concept since the time of Goran Novakovic was translated into the Energy Act. It was brought here in October, it was said that within six months, the Energy Agency's advice should be chosen and now those who are unencumbered here over some positions remind me that the majority of the vote was elected by the Energy Agency Council on 23 May this year. We then warned you from this pay phone, not only when the Council was elected, but also when the Energy Act was passed, which will have adverse consequences for the concept promoted by the Energy Act. Now I remind all those who are against this three-member bill to look at the stenographic notes from those sessions, and I must say that the Energy Act (which this government, which is the previous one) has repeatedly entered and exited the assembly procedure. Now they all remembered something was wrong with the concept. Now let me move on to another topic concerning this bill, which is where, as a legal basis, I am not saying constitutional basis, but a legal basis for this operation, which is the adoption of a law on the termination of the Law establishing a public undertaking for research, production, processing and transport of oil and natural gas, the Government calls for Articles 4 and 2. Law on public undertakings and the exercise of activity of general interest. I now warn the government's representatives that they are in a unique position to hear the unique and authentic interpretation of the law, given that I wrote it. Let me tell you what I wrote in that law in 2000, since you weren't informed. That law we wrote with some professors from law school, one group, in the final phase I worked on the law, and that law on public enterprises and the exercise of action of general interest was passed for two reasons. The first reason was to stop public enterprises of the republican importance to create daughters companies, because the state couldn't trace the "Serbishum", or the oil industry, or the Elektroprivreds, what they're forming and where they hide the money, so you know. This law was passed, but also that law, when it was passed, you saw it in transitional and final provisions, just put out of force the previous law on public enterprises. It was not touched by this republican law that regulates the practical establishment of NIS, as it did not even touch the law governing the establishment of RTS, as it did not touch the law governing the establishment of the EPS. Why didn't it touch? Because according to this law on public enterprises, the state was given the authority to finally control its businesses and we were stopped on October 5th in what we wanted to settle in the republican public enterprises. A new power has come, it did not put the law out of force, but in 2002 it only cast out those provisions where the Government of the Republic of Serbia gives consent to certain matters and some issues concerning public enterprises of local importance. You understood when you came to power what was the problem, so you went very selectively and very limited, because you were unable to solve the problem. You want to solve this problem by privatizing it. Don't be surprised now that the MPs who voted for the Energy Act are criticizing you for putting this law out of force. They do it because they are sure, they are all safe in Serbia, that something bad is being prepared, where someone for small money is going to get rich not only, but because it is one act without which it is impossible to organise normal life in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that there is a danger of the abuse of the monopolies that are inevitably being achieved, because it is the actions that are in the nature of things monopoly. I was from this pay phone, when the Excise Act was changed, pointing out and warning about what was going on in NIS, how this commercial monopoly was formed, so I named names, so I also cited an example of primary gasoline, petroleum, etc., not to tell you, so Mladjan Dinkic came out and said – I really don't know these things, you warned me well that some things were happening there. Many MPs feared it was the first time Mladjan Dinkic said it – something is suspicious to me too. He usually challenged everything the opposition told him, but that's the first time he said it - you're right, someone cheated on me when he gave me an explanation for what I was defending. You say - by provision of Articles 1 and 2. The law on public enterprises is something prescribed, but I have to remind you: Article 2 says companies are founded by the Republic of Serbia. Position 2 says founding rights are being exercised by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The founder's rights relate not only to governance, but to use and availability, and not only in the part where a company will work when it comes to a public enterprise, but who is the head of these property rights. The central issue is property, funds, and in the oil industry of Serbia, as a large system, the central issue is the market. The NIS is designed to be a monopoly in Serbia. It was in 1991 when the law was passed, it was going to be built together for the technological unity of a system that couldn't be scattered. Whether good results or bad results have been achieved, that's a question to talk about, but by nature, it's a natural monopoly that the state has to keep and define how it's going to come true, with no distortion of competition. I can fully support all those who object that NIS as a monopolies should change its behaviour with regard to access, commercial affairs, etc., but I can't support this, because I was against the Energy Act. I must remind you that in this Energy Act it is written that the Government is passing an act on the establishment of the energy entity of this character as proposed here. There's one thing I need to tell you. The tendency is in the world... Let me just remind you, when the NIS building in Novi Sad was ending, remember, I can't tell you exactly what year it was, then it was said to be in the ranks of world-renowned companies from that activity. If one country wants to have a stable market for that kind of energy, it must have a strong firm. What happened to the international plan in the meantime? With respect to certain specificities, it can be said on the energy plan that there is some rule of conduct. The rule of conduct is approximately as follows: countries that are poor with energy deliberately force the free market of energy to ensure their approach. Maybe someone won't understand that, since I'm too far-reaching, but I'll explain it on one occasion. All states are pushing for the territorial sea to be as great as possible, only Americans are asking it to be three nautical miles. Why? To go as far away as possible, so that we could be as far away as possible. It's similar to your energy. Whoever holds the energy, he rules the world. All these wars over the past 100 years have been fought for energy. In many countries, electricity is a problem, so countries connect to one side of the continent to get the excess electricity at some point where there's a shortage and everyone's looking to fit in. These interactions were once state affairs, but now people like Hamovic and Lazarevic come in and there are others. That Hamovic of yours is already building a power base. There is a special building in New Belgrade, it will create a stock exchange and trade there. He'll run the market. It's his concept since two years ago. You know, that building is called "red hat," it's all known, Serbia is a very small state, it can't hide anything. You still have that commission in your ministry that cheers and dresses. I know you don't have any influence on that commission. Allows import - export... What are you talking about, no, maybe shut down two days ago. Well, well, so be it. There is still its history in that famous decree by the government of the Republic of Serbia during Zoran Djindjic. They introduced a commission that solves everything. I wrote a proposal to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the constitutionality of that regulation. Now you're spinning my head like it doesn't exist. Please don't. Even if I'm informed, know that I'm very well informed, I'm not saying anything by heart. The situation has come to an end. The concept is circled. Now you from the Democratic Party to know, everyone in power is going to defend what they're doing just because you supported that concept of the Energy Act. You supported this concept of the Energy Act because it's been pushing since 2001. You can say anything here. You said here at the pay phone, when there was a debate on the Energy Act – what did you do, you reorganized our concept that we wrote. That's what Vlahovic was talking about from this pay phone. When we criticized him for supporting this law, how can we not support him when he is our law. Remember, don't forget. What's going on now? It happens that the time has come, someone has concluded that money should be taken. I received data from these people: the value of NIS assets was estimated at 993m euros on 18 April this year. They say the obligations are around 730, but the state of the debt has not yet been checked and how much of Lazarevic and Hamovic participate in the long run. That's your company's data, NIS. For your information, let me tell you that in 1991, Jugopetrol was estimated at $500 million, and in Jugopetrol, investment in these 14 years was about $600 million. This is all data without the Refinery, the Naftagas, the NAP and other NIS members. Of course, you're going to deny this, as it just happened to be from this pay phone, or rather from that place, a kind of inversion of what someone said -- a strategy of energy, although one of my predecessors was talking about the NIS privatisation strategy, not energy. You'll say no, it's not that value, some other value, otherwise it'll be solved, etc. I must warn you that it is not good at this time for the state to retain its rights and its powers only in these areas that you have listed, and it concerns this decision of yours from 15 days ago that you founded two public enterprises. They're enterprises, essentially, for transportation. This third, you defined it as a stock company, it's a state-owned company, where the equity structure of capital should be deployed in actions or possibly already deployed in actions. Don't sell anything that's the wealth of this country. Get their business in order. That you had doubts about NIS is also evidence that when you passed the Energy Act in transitional and final provisions, you did not decide to stop the law on the Serbian Oil Industry. You did that in October of the month. You have circled the new concept, but you should not have decided in the transitional and final provisions to end the importance of this law. What happened from October to today, that you mustered up the courage to say today – now can this law stop? By the way, you've exceeded all the deadlines prescribed by the Energy Act. What is this argument that has made you withdraw today, at a time when the National Assembly should not work, schedule and request an extraordinary session, give two points of the agenda, another very corruptly withdraw, with the aim of never choosing in the Assembly that supreme auditor to control the final budget account since 2000 and some year? You insist on this, still threaten the MPs – if it is not done within 15 minutes, the arrangement with the IMF fails, we do not meet any obligations, we will be criticised. What do I care if you're being criticized? As an opposition, our goal is to prevent you from being destroyed. You are destroying something that is the economic resource of the Republic of Serbia. You are destroying something that is the resource of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. If there's a problem with setting up NIS, you have your representatives on the board of directors, change the statutes, organization, but don't destroy what's good, which can be even better. Don't ruin it! If anyone bothers you, move them. You've replaced these directors of these NIS companies as anyone changes, as the government comes, you change. Take care of that situation there, but don't sell. You don't want to settle the situation, you want to sell it, then we don't care. We don't care. We're very interested. Remember, no one has the deed to rule for life. Remember, there will be elections, there will be changes in power, papers will come out, Hamovic will also show up, both this and that. Why don't you connect with the Russian companies? Minister, let me tell you, I know you've had contact with the Russians, there's a Russian firm that can increase the exploitation from our wells, and you know, they were at your place for the interview. There are Russian companies that can help us not build that natural gas warehouse, because we have a locality where there's a natural storage facility, as the Russians say. It's about a company that's seventh-eightth in the world. There are wells everywhere in the world. He's offering co-operation, offering help. As far as I'm concerned, I think one of the NIS companies is working with the Russian firm now. Why are you in such a hurry? It is not possible that Hamovic, Lazarevic and Novakovic are stronger than the state? You will go out and say: We have nothing to do with them. Yes, you do. They're alpha and omega. They push from all sides, they spread out, the National Savings Bank, that bank over there in Russia, here priorities, here monopolies in some places, now people want to round it up, connect that system, that the state depends on them, that every citizen depends on them. Every citizen will depend on them. That's why a very bad competition law is proposed, it's an anti-monopol law. Under this anti-Monopolitan law, if you sell these, the state can't do anything to restructure them, to divide them, to order them to divide themselves into enterprises, to make them addictive, to order them to sell the shares – that's not possible for us. They barely beat Bill Gates in America, and you know it, they barely stopped him. The state had to make regulations with rifles, so to tell him - reduces the participation of its capital in the company, the sale of shares. Serbia is a small country. We can't have escapes and age here. It's just enough to sell these tycoons everything and they make this Ace a king, almost, gone. Where are the citizens? They are the people's representatives, for each of these MPs by several tens of thousands of citizens behind, do you think everything can be resolved by 126 votes. Today it's 126, so it's most citizens, and in no time does most of them turn. The majority of them change. Anything that's fast, it's also delicious. This speed you're pushing this means that we can't pass this law today, that we need to do everything today so there's no quorum here, that there's no voting. The fact that Labus is going to get his IMF pucks, we don't care, let him finish with Erikson. When, as an opposition, Ericsson could have had state contacts, why can't he now as Prime Minister have contacts, justice there. What did you promise these people abroad? Who authorized you to promise? You act the same as Vuk Draskovic, now everyone washes their hands of Vuk Draskovic. Who authorized you to make a promise to someone? Whoever has promised NIS, that this is how it will end, and that is how it is broken apart, let him go out for a pay phone, and let him say, I have promised for that. Don't do this. It's just hide-and-seek. The two parties jump, the third one who supports the government criticises this, the fourth one that's in the opposition won't, the fifth one that's in the opposition won't, those two out there who are torn up don't know where they are or what they are, just so the wolf stays and remains minister, and you count on it in the clear consciousness of the Assembly to decide something. There's no clear consciousness here, there's only a twist of hands and a deo of interest. Come out with a vision, I support it. How do you think restructuring is done, how to make privatisation, what to privatize, what to control, how to do something. We have a problem with the Energy Act; this Energy Act, it was voted by the vast majority, now returns as a boomerang. You will see for yourself, representatives of the government, for criticism of this agenda, they will call for the Energy Act, the Law on Public Enterprises, because he is not interested in this. Since October could not pass the Energy Act, they deliberately did not put the law out of force in transitional and final provisions, but waited for the end, the time had come. What time is this? The deadline for a commitment is running out. Let the man who took the responsibility worry. I didn't make the commitment. The Serbian Radical Party has not taken the obligation. Why should we now be complicit in someone's obligation? I don't want to be complicit in any of his duties, especially in these unholy duties. Give a complete picture of NIS, all enterprises within that system, value of assets, debt, claims, number of employees. I have one more thing to tell you, regardless of these laws on public enterprises and the activities of general interest and regardless of this Energy Act, there is a huge need for certain public enterprises to exercise their founding rights in the Serbian Parliament. We had it in practice, we had the difference between RTS and NIS, and some other public enterprises. In these capital companies, there is an interest in the establishment rights of the National Assembly. We had one concept that all founding rights were exercised by the government, because the government generally enforces the laws, but when this authority is misused, then the state can disappear. Remember, the state can disappear. If we sell out our power system, if we sell out NIS, what do we have ours on, then who do we depend on? We depend on the ones you're supposed to be fighting. One comes out and says, "You've made tycoons." Who made the tycoons, the Serbian Radical Party made tycoons? When We asked him a question, who do you think he is, he is the poor one, what will he do? And how are those tycoons coming out now? How do they exercise their rights? Look, only in Italy is there a custom: a mobster can do whatever he wants in the week, then he goes to church on Saturday or Sunday, cross himself, so the contribution and almost, the dots don't apply. We're not gonna act like that, are we? Please don't. Do not participate in unholy activities. If you, Minister, know something's wrong, say it here, make it easy for yourself. If you're saying everything looks good here, then think about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18252	The word has Minister Radomir Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18253	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remove first of all a little inaccuracy, which is that I respect this assembly, because I was an MP myself, but not only because yesterday I wanted to keep some opening word about the whole thing, about this law, and you didn't allow me to do it. For the sake of precision, I'm going to have to go about 12.50 hours to an important meeting with the prime minister, so I'm asking for an apology, and my assistant with me, too, maybe, so I wanted to tell you before that some impressions about the discussions we had here. Last night and today, of course, which was expected, we're not talking about this law at all. The law is called the law on the abolition of the NIS law and we are talking about some privatisations, some reorganisations, some social and some further stories that we also heard when the Energy Act was passed, when the Energy Development Strategy was adopted. Of course, and then we were faced with similar arguments as today - we will be against this law because you are late in this and that or you are ineffective in this and that. It is precisely this law that is one technical step to revive the new NIS organisation, i.e. the oil and gas sector, in order to have a highly efficient organisation and operation in the sector. That's one small thing, I won't say hypocrisy, but there's a replacement thesis. Please, the oil industry of Serbia is one of the few companies in its branch, or it is the only one that has not had a reorganisation or a change of organisation since 1991 or 1992. It's nowhere to be found. We just want to, in light of the implementation of these reform processes in energy, and this word, when it is said, reform, that everyone uses, we get one organization for the benefit of the state, because I said yesterday and today I say that NIS, together with the EPS, is the only generator of Serbia's development and we are the only one who brought a strategy even before the strategy of some economic development. But before I go on about it, I have to say, still very lightly, or because we don't know or because we're not informed enough, we don't know what reform is, or what transition is, or what restructuring is, or what privatisation is. All that when we talk about it, and we should have clear opinions about each of these terms when we use them as some arguments. I apologize, I must tell you, reforming the energy sector is not our invention. It's been going on all over the world for the last 20 and over years. These are global processes, these are processes that are necessary because of the simple realization of the concept of sustainable development, because we should not, by our actions and behavior, spend all the energy we have in an irrational way, but rather leave something for our offspring. That's what developed countries figured out and started. The issue of rational or sustainable development consists, among other things, of the approach to the introduction of competition and energy, where energy becomes a commodity, where not only are monopolies that will behave sovereignly and violate this only possible concept that this planet survives, the concept of sustainable development. This is where all these processes take place. She's wrong a lot, America's wrong, Europe's wrong, so she's coming back and righting up mistakes. We had, among other things, not an advantage, but the ability to see these mistakes and not to make the same mistakes that this world has made. These reforms and the full implementation of the concept of sustainable development include the necessary steps to follow. When we say transition, transition is not about these reforms in the world, it is about transitioning from one kind of system to another. So the transition doesn't need to be mixed here. With us even we have this advantage that on the basis of previous experiences, from the former Yugoslavia etc., we have already had enough elements that this transition is in a milder form or mild transition. However, restructuring is a necessary step to overcome some irrationalities and to make some preparations to get efficient energy companies in our sector. When we say restructuring, that's what they say we use the common model that exists, it's the separation of these main actions that serve to produce energy, or for this basic activity, from the others, but that doesn't mean that we want to fire someone, to shut someone down, etc. There's been no layoffs in our energy sector for all this time. I continue to argue that we as a system can make enough adjustments for everyone to find their place in the economic and energy miles and that we will do it well. When people say restructuring of public enterprises, it is now one key for large and large enterprises that we need to turn into efficient companies; and when people say that public enterprises are being divided or that restructuring is being done, you have seen that we had no problem with firing workers, we are doing it very carefully and in agreement with certain social factors that exist there. I didn't mean to say that. So that's what restructuring is about, we're not preparing it through this restructuring in this sector, when it comes to the energy system. It's not like a shoe factory or I don't know which other factory: when you say restructuring, it's made and prepared for sale. In this case, preparations are being made for the creation of efficient companies. I still argue that private capital in all elements doesn't have to be more efficient than state capital, when it comes to energy. We had these attitudes and showed them through various steps and behaviors. We are for privatisation and we know what privatisation is. Privatisation isn't always just a sale, but we have to make sure when it comes to big systems, we see what's going on around us, and we're keeping an eye on it. So now we're on our way to create efficient companies. The electricity industry of Serbia and the oil industry of Serbia, in the gas sector in particular, has already transformed Serbia's Elektroprivreda not only in accordance with our Energy Act, which is absolutely in line with European directives, but has transformed so that it really fits the entire reorganisation and reform complex that exists in Europe. The fact that Mr Petrovic made a good point, we have indeed caught up with the delay in this regard, as regards the organisation of the entire sector and we have become dominant, as we have always been before, energy power in Southeast Europe. As for our infrastructure, and as for our legislative and systemic adaptation, we are dominant and the world is now beginning to recognize it. It's not enough to have just on paper some forms that require these modern organizations, we have the essence, and that's the infrastructure, and that's how we're going to quickly fit into the place that belongs to us. So in order to get an efficient energy company operating in the area of the oil industry of Serbia, that is, oil and gas industries, we need to prepare this company for such a transformation. No reorganization decisions have been made here. You know, and I mentioned yesterday that we had been preparing for two years the concept of the reorganisation of Serbia's Oil Industry, a concept involving experts and numerous structures, from management to unions and to the Ministry. You had, remember that commission that worked, that went public, that had one concept. We even set up a new commission a year and a few days ago, which was doing research and looking for an optimal way to organize and that came up with similar results as the previous finding. Now we're just here to apply it. So we're not talking about privatisation here. When it comes to reorganising the oil industry of Serbia or about this law that needs to be made possible, the law is only technically, has nothing to do with the word privatisation. That privatisation you're talking about, the sale, it can now be made by decisions regarding an existing organization. There is no fundamental link between the future oil industry organisation and the current organisation, in terms of privatisation and sales. So, this law isn't something that suggests this sale, it just allows us to get to an efficient oil company. This division, that is true, is in line with the European directives, and that is beyond doubt; as far as these systemic matters are concerned, we are fully in line. So, to say at least in the first part, we are as a state – not only this government, the previous government has worked on it, we never deny it – in terms of energy, we have circled the legislative framework. There's everything that's necessary, as far as the law and other documents are concerned. I thank Mr Petrovic for saying that we are among the few countries that have an energy strategy in the development of energy, which was brought to the Assembly, which was not brought to a ministry, or brought by the Government, but by the Assembly. We deliberately insisted on it, from our opposition struggle, to get a state-level document. Underlaws are under way, and we try to respect the deadlines as they are recorded in the law, and we will honor them. We also respected the establishment and division of the Elektroprivreda, as indicated in that law. Now there's an oil and gas sector approach here. When we consider what activities are in the meantime and what opportunities are being realized, we would be pleased. But it's up to us whether with all kinds of obstructions or with all kinds of things that don't have political connotations, there's really no political connotation here, that's what we're going to do faster and more effectively. On the other hand, apart from this legislative activity, we have rounded up some of the institutional work. A year ago, there was no law, there was no strategy, there was no agency, there were no major elements to form the energy market here. Now we have all of this and we are unique in our entire environment in Southeast Europe, not to say, it rarely happens in Europe that members of the Energy Council have been elected in the Assembly, not elected by the government or the ministry, in the Assembly are elected members of the Council, just to show the independence of this regulatory body that will have exceptional importance. And it was registered at the Trade Court, it was given the first task – to work on the methodology of tariffs and other things. It will be, I hope, with people who are of professional value the same. There is no advice from the regulatory agency in Southeast Europe with that level of professional professionals, as they usually push on political lines. We have the Energy Efficiency Agency, as an extremely important element in this whole story, because of what happened. sustainable development and our commitments towards renewable energy sources, according to the Kyoto Protocol, etc. So, we ended up completely institutionally in the energy sector, and we're finally coming into the structural sector. It's these companies and these energy companies. I said at the beginning, we are here in a relatively satisfactory way and at a relatively satisfactory rate, and we have brought these companies to take part in this future energy market, both regional and European, which is being created by us. What we have proposed, we have adopted a founding act in the Government for a public gas company and for a public oil transport company, we are subject to our laws, European directives and our Energy Act. It's gonna be just fine. In Leskovac, a new round of agreements between the ministry, "Energogas" and municipalities will be signed this month on the gasification of new 10-15 municipalities, unlike already signed agreements for more than 27 municipalities and three or four cities. What I'm saying is, it's spreading that gas network. We're working on master lines now. Yesterday I mentioned that from Brussels we have confirmation that we are in priority for the construction of the pipeline, which will supply us with gas from Bulgaria to Nis, and later this will expand to Western Europe, because it is their interest. Also, it will be in Belgrade in autumn, perhaps in Trieste, re-signing an interstate agreement, a memorandum concerning the oil pipeline from Constanta to Trieste, with an exceptional quality. Italy and Slovenia are now joining the project, and Austria has an interest, because it will go towards them. These are some things that don't relate to individual activities, relate to a single general picture that needs that economy, to give it momentum, and to make some of our progress possible. Whether we're in opposition or position, it's in all of us's interest to make progress in the economy, both in society and in general to raise that civilization level. That's why I want to remove every suspicion and dilemma. The passing of this law by emergency procedure has nothing to do with any intention of any particular privatisation. It intends to speed up the companies we create, make them efficient, that when it is signed, at the level of the Prime Minister, an agreement with the European Commission on the establishment of the energy community of Southeast Europe and when the pan-energy system joins the existing energy community, which will be the third largest in the world, that our companies are really competitive and enter the game. Sometimes they have to get into the game. That's the only reason for some urgency, and I'm really asking you, there's no policy here, and I think this is our general interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18254	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18255	I really can't believe you didn't make it in 24 hours to prepare yourself to explain your proposal in a calm, stable and concise manner and that it's based on some real basis. The story you have now told is an additional argument to us Serbian radicals in the claim that you have no literally idea how this organisation will look at NIS level. How can you make the first decision to shut down, to shut down a public enterprise, and now you're explaining to us what your vision is that these individual organisational units are going to work? How it's going to work, here, you know that. It will not function on an economic or market basis or on any real basis, but on a territorial basis. It's already known in NIS. Here's how it's known. Minister, if you're a decent and moral man, go out for a pay phone and confirm or deny what I'm about to say. It's already known in NIS, by sectors, by restaurants, who's the director. The director of NIS gas is Hamovic's man. Why? Because this individual's interesting sphere is passed on to the transport of gas. Why? Because his partner, but business, not coalition, I don't know who his coalition is, that he has a monopoly on oil transport. You are now talking to us here as little children – it is integration into European flows, energy standards require. Who are you talking to, Minister? What is happening in Serbia's territory is something we can do, but we have no decisive and significant influence. If you think long-term as a man of the profession, then the science that you've completed requires you to think in the direction that we connect to Russia as soon as possible and its system. We depend on it energyfully; and not only do we, ministers, so the sparrows on the branch, it is up to Russia to be energy dependent on that Europe that you praise in that way, which you personify as something that is beyond force, some power that is not yet known by humanity. Don't, Minister. There are standards, NIS in the present state, and in the present situation, it fully meets those standards. It needs to be reorganized by what is done first, so it comes out with a decision like this, Minister. The least problem is when you present us with a complete plan, a complete system, and it is said – gas transport carrier, gas transport activities will be the Public Enterprise "Naftagas", about the transport of oil being "Yugopetrol", I now simplify, but about that. Two empires are created that will be dominated by the main one, which is AD, Minister. We are neither small nor naive to believe such a story, it has nothing to do with privatisation, it is not preparation, and what AD is to you, what is a third society within the NIS, but exactly what we warn, Serbian radicals, which is the preparation for legalising the entire NIS crime. I don't speak to you personally, I believe that you are a man of integrity and honor and that you haven't changed your attitudes and thoughts in relation to the period when you were an opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18256	Time, Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18257	But you still think like any man who thinks about improving (thanks and ending, just for a second), so for that reason, Minister, we appeal, it's no problem, why to bring in an emergency procedure, why when it's season of vacations, when you say so – this job is expecting us in October of the month. They will schedule an extraordinary session in September, but they would like to hear people and get involved in the work, and it is very important not only for us MPs, but for Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18258	The word has a Minister of Naumov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18259	I tried yesterday and today to explain what an oil and gas sector organization would look like. I see I'm misunderstood. Thank God we've got the elaborates and we've discussed exactly how the company and its competences and what their schemes are about. Well, in order for the government to pass the founding act without it, it was her first duty as government. We have three companies that are complete, and where the partial balance ends, where the transfer of funds ends, where all the activities are foreseen. Therefore, NIS AD has its statutes and has its founding act to become valid on 1 October. That's why we say - this law is abolished on October 1st. In this AD society there are research and exploitation of oil and gas, which is today "Naftagas", there are both refineries, Panchevo and Novi Sad, and both traffickers in one relationship as one company and there are basic activities, those activities needed for this service, engineering, economics, etc. That's three separate continents in that AD. The second thing, we established this decision by the Government of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas", which is based in Novi Sad, which will have gas transport, transport management, gas storage and gas distribution. Nothing is disputed nor is there anything... (Zoran Krasic: Why isn't it a public enterprise? Well, a public firm. The public company "Srbigas" and the public oil transport company, so if you read, if you get to know each other, it's been for months and it's been talked about. Therefore, AD is only this part that speaks of oil exploration and gas exploration, Naftagas and this development and in AD are refineries and traffic phases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18260	According to the Rules of Procedure, Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18261	Someone deliberately takes the minister when I take the word. I called about a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the Prime Minister, and in this case, the minister, is obliged to speak and provide accurate information for this speaker, as we MPs are obliged to do. It's that 100, I don't know now by new if it's left 100 or it's 104 now. What the minister was saying, it's a beautiful general story that we've heard in various versions of different ministers, presidents, etc. It's really one like this, I don't know how to use an expression, one soap opera, like one of those shows, that's the story for those of us who are elected here in front of the people to take care of how, among other things, they're going to regulate relations in the oil and gas and energy sector, because it's one story that's exactly that. I want to say next. The minister said there was no policy in this law. Of course, we all know that's not true. That's even worse than when someone said -- well, the Americans, or NATO, attacked Iraq because of Saddam. They're about oil. Iraq has the largest oil and gas reserves in the world. It's clear to the elementary school kids. Therefore, this law is 100% political law. That's one thing. The other thing is, I talked about it in the morning in that part of my work, but I want to say again, very briefly. The minister said -- this is a reorganisation of the oil and gas sector that monitors the area's reforms in the world. That's why we're so organized to increase efficiency, etc. Please let the minister or one of his assistants answer me the following question – where is this company in the world, such as AD NIS, which unites research, production, processing, oil distribution, oil production, etc.? That's where the research is. There are special companies in the world dealing with oil research. Then there are special companies dealing with oil production, then there are refineries that process oil, that have no connection, that buy from those that produce oil. Therefore, there is no company in the world in which all these activities are located. This would say, in some modern language, a company with abstraction, menstrum and downstream activity. It's not there. That is why the oil industry of Serbia was to be reorganised, because it also contains what should not be in one continent. So if you look a little bit better, nothing else is reorganized, except it's no longer a public enterprise, but ADNIS. So this is the opening of privatisation. Why didn't there be a public company left, and then we pulled the tube from the NIS from the border from Croatia to the Pančeva refineries and they pulled out "Energogas", everything else, refineries FAM, oil and energy refineries, "Naftagas", and "Naftagas" with 900 wells... Do you know what the value of Oilagas is, what are the geological reserves on Serbia's territory, or Vojvodina? (President: Time.) ) Of course, I can't say that because it's a state secret, but the value of the oil reserves in the country reaches tens of billions of euros or dollars. Therefore, whoever privatises "Naftagas" will receive hundreds of dollars for small money. So, I'm really surprised that the minister of this kind of important thing comes up with a naive story; I understand that the minister, for example, is a doctor, but he is still a man of general energy and should have a little more respect to treat us with MPs and not tell us such beautiful stories that this law has nothing to do with politics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18262	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, a replica minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18263	I thought that only some MPs had problems with the extensive exposure to realize, that the minister didn't understand when it was extensive, nor when it was concise, so he came out here, gave us a dormant lecture and, of course, said some things that couldn't stand. I'm really asking a question, I don't know which time, why is this third company, I can't say otherwise that it's called, it's written as a stock company for, so I don't read this any further, why isn't it written that it's a public company? I would just like to remind the Minister and the National Assembly and the public, when adopting the Law on Business Companies is not particularly reflected in public enterprises, it is said – it is in the Law on Public Enterprises and Activities of General Interest. If in the name of one company it's said to be a.d., what does that mean? The term "public" is used to show it's state. Then this company had to be a public company by its own means, because the state owns everything that the a.d. company has. But it can't be written here. Why? Because it's very hard to privatize a public company, but it's like going into restructuring, so we're dividing the whole system into three parts. Two retain some public character, in accordance with the Energy Act; this is the pipeline transport, etc. It's that logic as the Railway Directorate. It's the same concept, there's no difference at all, and what's 99%, maltene, NIS is represented as a stock society, it can go into privatisation. Who's going to privatize? He's about to say his name and last name. Why didn't you write to this third company that it's a public company for research, production and processing? When someone asks you why it's public, it's public because it's state property. And in a public company, property can be divided into shares or shares. Now don't you think that something might be divided into action now to represent it's a stock company. Once upon a time, there was a public company with shares, a public company with stakes. I don't know, here how whoever comes from the Ministry is giving us a lecture. Give us some lectures, and you haven't mastered any elemental things. Write down it's a public company. You can't write, because then you ask the question – and what did you do, why did you pass the Energy Act, why did you resort to a concept? Please, you could have done this without that law and without this. Change the director, replace the board of directors, organize, make these addicts very addictive, not so self-determined. The problem was also with governments that were in 1992, 1995, 1999 and 2001, so they tried to solve it. Now you've found a hole in the pot, so you've solved it. How did you save him? In the worst possible way. They saved him so he could be Mr Hamovic, Lazarevic and some of them at will. That's why we object.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18264	Replica, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18265	Since it is not clear to some MPs who I am replicating, I am replicating the minister, who, unfortunately, has come out again. The Minister of Energy's great grudge. I can understand that he has great obligations and that, taking care of such a wide and important resources, he is a man who has to work hard. But I don't see what could be more important for the Minister of Energy today, as I don't see it, to be honest, what could be more important for the Prime Minister than that debate in parliament. It is one defeating evidence and knowledge of the complete disrespect this parliament has from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it is a picture and opportunity of the parliamentary majority, images and opportunities of parliamentary clubs supporting this government, images and the opportunity of the full impotence of MPs sitting here and having no need to know at all what the Government of the Republic of Serbia intended to do with NIS. As for the answer to what Mr. Minister said, yes, it was adopted in this assembly of energy strategies. When we discussed it, we made remarks. The DS Parliament Club made objections. That's why we voted against, because the strategy is not good, but now it's not a topic. The theme is privatisation. And, as has been said here several times, this law is not a technical law. This law is the beginning of the privatisation of NIS. The passing of the law we are discussing here today is a formal legal assumption that the privatisation of NIS could begin. That's why I've asked here several times from a pay phone for the government of the Republic of Serbia to clearly explain its intentions. Does he want to sell NIS in general or in part? Whether it wants to recapitalise the NIS in general or in part or to be defined for a model that has very significant support, both in internal expert public opinion and in foreign circles, by increasing the value of NIS by making assumptions from the profits made by the company, by the banks and investment funds and by making technical agreements with companies in this area that would be charged in the goods produced by NIS, that the decision on the privatisation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, therefore the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, could result in higher revenues. The issue here today is the most important, not the formal legal structure and architecture of companies that will deal with oil and gas if this law is passed. Unfortunately, since the minister is not here, I don't think the MPs will get a chance to hear the answers to all these questions. It is alarming if the minister does not know the answer to these questions, and if he does not know the answer, I am sure it is not because the minister cannot understand what needs to be done with NIS, but someone in the government of the Republic of Serbia does not want to tell the Minister of Energy what will happen to NIS. Who is it that has the power not to inform the Minister of Energy, who will be guilty or responsible for what happens here today and what happens to the oil industry of Serbia? Why does the Minister of Energy agree to that? These are also answers we will probably get in some memoirs, when this government is no longer the executive power in Serbia, and I think the time when these memoirs will begin and when their writing will come very close.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18266	Branislav Rankic, a Messenger of the people, followed by the People's Messenger Milka Silajev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18267	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may not be necessary to debate this much about this law, because it should not be passed after the SDP's clear position that it will not vote for this law, and it is known that the majority in the last year could not provide more than 128 MPs here. And it would have been good if the SPS representative could have said so clearly that they would not vote for this law, not to wait for the decisions of the main board, then the minister would have had enough arguments to withdraw this law, or enough knowledge that he could not pass, to withdraw it, and we could have ended practically all of this on the agenda today. I don't want to get into how the SPS is going to decide on its vote on this bill, but experience so far has been saying that there's always something new to be learned on the main board, and it's probably a condition to do something, and then on that day when the vote passes those party positions, it's voted for a decision, because if it wasn't, this law would have already been withdrawn during the afternoon. It's worrying, of course, that in this law no matter what the minister says, he's destroying the NIS Public Enterprise. Yesterday, although it was difficult to hear, the minister said there was no talk here about restructuring or privatisation. Yesterday he made it perfectly clear that it was just a reorganisation. Half an hour ago, he told me about the pay phone here that there was no way to talk about any reorganization. It is truly incomprehensible that someone from the Ministry who has no view of the proposal, what it is and that, practically, MPs are confused. Then it is also very illogical that MPs who support the government, which make up the majority, or representatives, of their political party heads, claim something else. Mr Albianic here claimed that the issue of NIS restructuring was. Indeed, how would we MPs, who would like to hear those who represent the government and those MPs who represent the majority and who would vote for this law, know what this is about? It's just that what I said at the beginning seems true, and that's the complete destruction of the NIS Public Enterprise. We are used to the fact that when the laws that have many members arrive here, hundreds of pages usually say nothing, because most of these members end up with the minister or ministry getting closer to the material that the law processes. But also, for this year and a half, we're used to the law that comes here that contains one, two or three members actually means a lot more than those laws that come here with several hundred pages, because they mainly refer to what should disappear. You see the illogicalities in Article 2, where practically NIS is broken into three companies, of which are two public and one company. Under number 2) – public transport, storage, distribution and natural gas trade, established by the Government's decision, etc. Under number 3 – a company for research, production, processing, distribution and transport of oil and petroleum products and research and production of natural gas, etc. They're overlapping with jurisdiction. The minister said there was no privatisation speech in the context of this. What's a stock company? If at the beginning of the state it is the sole owner of the shares or majority owner of the shares, the state will soon become the minority owner of the shares and this stock company will have practically the majority owner shares of a private person or private company. The minister told us yesterday that this was a matter of agreement with the management and the NIS union. Today we heard there was no conversation with the union. Of course management is easy to reach an agreement, because the ministry is setting up a management. They have to agree to a deal, no matter what it is. Practically, I once spoke here of the role of the union, especially their representatives in public enterprises towards management, where they must practically be in full compliance with the desire of management, or corporate management, should not in any form oppose it. The minister said the NIS is a generator of the Republic of Serbia's economy. It's so much more unclear why he's destroying this company. If this is a public company generator, why does it need to be destroyed? There is no, of course, a rational answer to this, because this, as much as I thought would happen from these two public enterprises and this company of shareholders, is something that will be better, untrue, it's just throwing dust into the eyes of the MPs, and also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You know that a huge part of NIS's assets during its aggression against SRJ have been destroyed, that the state with a lot of pain and trouble, investing its own money, has practically restored part of the facility. Of course, she didn't rebuild everything. She invested in the public company, believing it should continue to be a generator of the economy, according to Minister Naumov. It is now happening to us that virtually the largest part of Serbia's Oil Industry in the form of an action society, when it comes out of the market with actions, will be left to someone else and I assume that the price of individual actions will be so low that the state and all citizens will have great damages. It is said in the reasons for the adoption of the law that the government of the Republic of Serbia will determine how energy entities are organised to carry out their activities. This is provided for in Article 172. The Energy Act. No one was trying to stop the government from doing anything. She didn't have to break NIS in order to do this. Of course, even now at NIS, it's been known who distributes gas and how. It was known who was doing research, exploitation, distribution and oil and oil production and all of these things done by these three companies, and so far it has been known, because it has been done by certain sectors. I won't talk for long, in the end, but I once told you that I still find the most interesting parts of the reasoning of these laws, which often try to persecute themselves to the MPs. Generally, the arguments contain some text that essentially is untrue or does not mean anything. At the very end of the reason for the adoption of the emergency law, it is said, among other things, that by not organising the operation of the oil industry's work, there is already a consequence of market disturbances in the supply of certain oil products, which threatens the smooth operation of agricultural works, as well as the work of businesses and other entities. Gentlemen, how did last year, at this time, this NIS organization system not interfere with the supply of oil and oil products to farmers and other business entities? At the time of the sanctions, when it was very difficult to get legal flows to oil imports, and then the oil was able to be provided, and by the same law, which now is not possible and what happened to the oil market in the world? What happened to the company about the exploitation, the shorter I say, the NIS company, that suddenly in 2005, this couldn't produce results, even though the last 15 years have produced results? It is not because of this, but in an explanation it should be said that it would not have occurred to any MP to criticise this, because then one of the MPs, or the minister, who supports the government, will then say, "Here, you see, these MPs are against providing oil to farmers." What does this law have to do with the current oil shortage on the market? Or, by chance, since it is added here – besides agriculture, it will interfere with the work of businesses and other entities, too, if someone comes and says that this kind of legislation on the destruction of NIS is not well done, then someone will say – we would already be in Europe, we are going so far ahead, but they are not giving us, criticising our laws, and that is why it will slow down economic activities in the Republic of Serbia. I hope in the sincerity of those of the Social Democratic Party, that the day that the voting day is scheduled will not give us a quorum. As I said, for the last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the parliamentary majority, has not gathered more than 128 MPs. So this law, by chance, will have a sad fate and should not have come to the agenda in front of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18268	Thank you. The word is Milka Silaev. Let Momir Markovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18269	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the energy development strategy was adopted in this house a few months ago. There was and there's a part that applies to the oil industry. The basic trends in the development of the oil industry were to be covered by this strategy. In order to transform the oil industry of Serbia, it is necessary to abolish the 1991 law by which NIS is organised as a vertically organised company. Problems with the transformation of the oil industry had other countries in the environment. There's been a lot of pessimistic forecasts here, so let's see if the other countries had any similar problems. I'll look back at this area. Hungary, whose oil company MOL is almost at the end of the process, has gone the farthest way, for years after completing its restructuring process, has also shown profits. MOL is the majority owner of the "Silent Oil", a Slovak oil company, which had a lot of privatisation problems, and was partially privatised in the mass voucher privatisation process. MOL is the owner of 25% of the Croatian company INA, and a recent announcement of the accession of the Polish oil company MOL has been made. The shortest route was just taken by Poles who sold the oil complex "PLOK" control package to foreign partners, mostly US firms. Gazprom is the only major oil system in Russia to survive the country's collapse. The rest of the oil industry survived a failed mass privatisation, which drastically reduced the value of large companies from which smaller parts were separated and collapsed. In 1994, the government of Russia, according to the US model, did a vertical integration of companies and thus formed "Lukoil", "Jukos", "Slaveft" and others. The list of hundreds of Russia's largest companies is 27 from the oil industry. Serbia's oil industry in the second half of the year should be divided into two public enterprises, under the law, and one company in action. The action society will be joined by the former parts of NIS, Naftagas, oil refineries in Pancheva and Novi Sad, Jugopetrol, Naftagas - Transport and all secondary activities other than oil refineries in Kraševec and Belgrade. Three dependent companies will exist within the framework of the company. There will be production and exploration of crude oil, and in the second refinery of oil and the flow of derivatives, and in the third secondary work. Refineries in Krusevec and Belgrade, oil refineries, were mostly separated from the NIS and passed into the jurisdiction of the Republic Privatisation Agency. About oil refineries NIS finished most of the work, so now it's on the privatisation agency's move. One public company will deal with the management of natural gas transport systems, natural gas storage, distribution system management and the supply of tariff customers. A public gas company is expected to enter "NIS-Gas" and "NIS-Energogas" which will enter all assets into the newly formed company, while all employees will continue to keep their jobs. The second public company for the transport of petroleum products will manage the transport of crude oil, oil pipelines and the transport of derivatives by products. The company will transfer assets, part of the Adriatic pipeline passing through Serbia, and it is envisaged that any future pipeline or product pipeline passing through Serbia's territory will be part of it. By balance, the public company will take over the debt to Gazprom. These activities are of general interest to the state, so they must be organised as public enterprises by the end of June. The NIS will leave 1,630 employees, which is about 10% of the total number of workers, with the payment of the stimulating severance. The NIS brings to an end and estimates the value of the company. The government will have to and should call a tender for the selection of a NIS privatisation adviser. The advisor should suggest how and what to privatise, but the final decision is made by the government. Independently it is found that large world companies, such as Lukoil, British Petroleum, Shell and Helenik Petroleum, are considering a joint consortium for the purchase of NIS. A similar business venture was made seven years ago, when the Czech oil industry was privatised. Nothing new in this Balkans has already been seen in our environment. Foreign partners shared the risk in this case and proved to have done a good job. In the Serbian case, the holder of the consortium could be, various assumptions are, the Greek firm in which the large stakes have "British Petroleum" and "Shell", and in Russia's "Lukoil" the share of "Shell" has "British Petroleum" and the stake is not small, so this is all an additional motive to join the NIS purchase, when conditions are acquired. The prerequisite for such a thing is the adoption of these laws that would define the whole. We support these efforts that appear in the area of reorganisation for which such a law should be passed. When it comes to the social programme, the NIS is a commitment to create a voluntary retirement-stimulating fund and thus reduce the technological surplus. This is the way of oil companies in our environment. We're nothing different than them. The roads must be similar, and they'll probably be similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18270	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and the MP Milovan Radovanovic will prepare for the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian nation, the Serbian economy, the Serbian freedom these days suffers severe blows. The first blow, which literally rocked the state, is the signing of this agreement that this unfortunate wolf at the time he was probably under the influence of synthetic drugs, because there's no more money for cocaine, signed; it's something only a crazy man or a junkie can sign. This is the final blow that will destroy the economy, the social policy of Serbia, destroy everything Serbia can count on, and then we will leave, enter into debt slavery, enter the slave-owner period, because the tycoons who have raised their heads after the Bulldozer revolution buy everything slowly, and what's last in Serbia worth. The other day I read in the paper that Karadjordjevo was already handed over to the buyer, the point is just to get through the pro-forma, one of the only buyers was in the tender. Soon, Serbs will find out who will buy it, if we fail to stop it, and at what price and country, agricultural land, and then it will all come to an end. The law will literally destroy Serbia as far as energy is concerned, along with the previous laws and what follows the EPS. What exactly is this about? After this law and the law that was passed for the EPS, the grab ends. Today, all masks fell off the face, not those to buy, but the governments of Serbia and Vojislav Kostunica as president of the government. How'd it go? First, it started with a break-in and a robbery. A few months ago, we had a chance to see how a small robbery from this oil industry of Serbia was being robbed, both oil and electricity at the same time, and today we're starting to restructure, today we're starting to separate the NIS into smaller bites, so it's easier to swallow tycoons. Of course, tycoons must have one predisposition to be someone's godfather. I'll talk about it later. It stands out to the stock company all but the pipelines and the pipelines. To whom is the company, who will buy it and at which price, because in the assessment of capital the accounting value, and when preparing this law, which is shown three times is less than the actual value. Three times is less than the real value of what is recorded and estimated, and the experts from Deloitte and Touche estimated it. I'm asking you, where are the companies in this, the companies in which NIS owns a large share of capital? What about that capital that's in those companies? What about the stock companies in which NIS is a shareholder, not because they wanted NIS employees, but because he couldn't charge otherwise. What about "Politics"? There's no word from anywhere that NIS is one of the biggest owners of politics. Where will those actions go? What about the ownership stakes where the NIS in co-operation with other companies formed a third company? What about the domestic wells? What about the reserves that are... A few minutes, one of the speakers said how many of these wells now have oil, which will be extracted and sold as their assets. What about the company Combik from Frankfurt that owns the oil industry of Serbia? Is she evaluated? Where is this shown? What about the Angola oil company, where, in co-operation with the government of Angola, Naftagas drills and the contract says that we, i.e. NIS, are the owners of 49% of total oil exploited. Is that an estimate? This oil is about 50% of the total domestic oil production, because it was run here as domestic oil. With this domestic oil production, we ironed the price of oil derivatives to make Serbian citizens, so that Serbia's economy could normally benefit and function normally, so our price of oil and oil derivatives was far lower than the price of oil imports, so the price of imported oil was three times higher than the price of domestic oil. What about that capital? There are a lot of companies abroad founded by Naftagas. Are they listed, or has one of the best men already hired them and translated them into his own name, of course, with no stakes? What about the huge property that Oilagas has, which is not directly related to research, exploitation, transportation, distribution, etc.? I'm talking about just a few resorts on the Adriatic Sea, in this part of Montenegro's coast, whose value is a fabulous one. Whether it has entered here or it will go to the action society, i.e. Hamovic, Lazarevic, Novakovic and other godfathers and this Popovic, because he is also the best man Lazarevic, this director of NIS. If the minister were here, I'd say, Minister, I believe you're an honest man, you're being lied to by thieves, you stop this, you're gonna have to pick yourself up, you're gonna have to chop it up to the last dinar, and then you're gonna have to go. What about the pipeline? I spent 28 years in the oil industry of Serbia, i.e. in its predecessors, until 1998 working, so I know how much we invested to build an oil pipeline from Krk to Pancheva and to Novi Sad. We have only this piece left, but the deba of the next day, a succession, when property is divided between the countries resulting from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, a good part of the funds now used by Croats must belong. Where's that capital that's supposed to be introduced here? What about the pipeline? I know how much we from Energogas and NIS gas have had the trouble of providing the loans we paid afterwards to build a pipeline from Horgos to Paracino. Whether it's calculated or it's accounting value, it can and doesn't have to, comes "Deloitte and Touche" and calculates that it costs so much and that's 10 times more expensive. The dissatisfaction in Serbia's oil industry is enormous. What about the economy that is related to the oil industry of Serbia? What happens to petrochemicals when this AD turns the petrochemical tap? You know that the basic raw material base for Petrochemical is crude gasoline and is made out of it by all those for polyethylenes, etc. What about Rafineria in Elemir? What about the rubber factory in Elemir? These are all the factories that are related to this, which Naphtagas built in time, the NIS present, and it used to be called the community of labor units. There's the capital of Oilagas, the NIS, those people who've been working for 40 years since the oil industry of Serbia exists. Where are these assets accounted for and whose property is it now? Who's gonna get a mustache with that tomorrow? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, six months ago we had the Survey Committee and on this Survey Committee, though it was related to Elektroprivreda, but when the president of the Survey Committee opened the papers, so he sees a direct link between the oil industry of Serbia and the Elektroprivreda, so Serbia imports lukewarm when it doesn't need it, NIS imports lukewart when it doesn't need it, because Mr. Novakovic is sitting there or who was already there, I'm not going to bid now, in a decisive place; imports lurk when she doesn't need it, exports when it's over-need and that mule turns into electricity at five times cheaper prices at the New Sad thermal power plant and surrenders to the gentlemen of the EFT. Whose godmothers are these? Is the godfather Lazarevic, is he the godfather of Serbia's oil industry today, Popovic? How many of those godmothers are there? Is it just their thing or, as they would say in Sicily, our thing, or the goat nostra. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the total robbery of Serbia is being prepared through this law. This is the first step, and the next step is to see who owns this AD and how AD will command it with these two public enterprises. Basically, the list of assets was a big deal. Anyone else from the Serbian government, I would like someone to explain to me, who from the ruling parties, except Lazarevic, Hamovic and this poor Popovic, keeps his hands in the jam, in the jar, who is still dealing with this theft and this kidnapping. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that if tomorrow is the day for the vote tomorrow, there is no honourable MP to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18272	The People's Messenger Milovan Radovanovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Petar Jojic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18273	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've heard a lot about this speaker from the Serbian Radical Party's MPs about not having to accept this bill that abolishs the existence of NIS. As an MP for the Serbian Radical Party, I join the SRS MPs who spoke before me, in that it is really harmful for the Serbian state to pass this law, because something similar will happen to the adoption of the Energy Act last year, the same in this assembly. Of course, in the light of this law, the legislator of the law, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, calls for certain powers under Article 172. The Energy Act, from which provisions draw its right to make certain decisions regarding production, transport, products, pipelines, oil trade, gas and oil derivatives. Accordingly, the government of the Republic of Serbia, as the argument puts it, made a decision on the establishment of two public enterprises and one company on July 7th. What we MPs of the SRS have particularly resented for this speaker is why action society is being formed. If it were just state capital, then it would be a public enterprise, a state-owned company. Action society means the existence of private sector shareholders, so it can be the state sector, both the private sector and the mixed sector. It's all form, it's all the creation of legal conditions that both NIS, as well as EPS, are restructured, reconstructed, and that individuals and private firms are brought into a situation to come to great wealth, to a large amount of money at the expense of the state. I will remind you, and that is a lot to talk about after this speaker last year during the debate on the Energy Act (then the proposal, now, unfortunately, the Energy Act), when you are already calling for certain international standards on the EU, that you know that earlier years the EU has really adopted directives that deregulatory the market, in terms of the elimination of monopoly, in terms of the introduction of a number of energy producers, energy generators, in terms of creating conditions for free competition. Some EU countries, some Western European countries, and the United States have set out in that direction, in line with these directives. When they saw that this was the wrong way to create stable companies for the production, transport, distribution, transmission of energy, both in the electricity system and in the oil and gas industry system, they returned to create the state monopoly again, and if it were the private sector, private monopoly in their countries' energy system. Just to tell you that Spain, France, Germany and the Netherlands have just done so. Britain went that way, too. When they saw that this was the wrong way, then the British government invested a billion pounds, where it subsidized to a national energy firm so that this company wouldn't go bankrupt. The EU countries have invested about $100 billion in the recovery of the entire energy system for several years, so that their businesses remain comprehensive, unique, undivided, undivided, undivided. We in the power system, as we do now at NIS, are just about to do something that means breaking that system, that we are going through which Bulgaria and Romania went several years ago. What's the consequence of that trip? A large price of energy, a large number of workers who will lose their jobs, and profits are made by foreign companies. This has already been seen in the case of both Bulgaria and Romania. In order not to go through other countries, the EU, gentlemen, MPs (not the minister, he knows it well), revised, with its directive of 16 July last year, such a policy and such measures that it had previously adopted and recommended to countries that did not go into the process of reconstructing public enterprises, state-owned enterprises, that they do not do so at all costs. It is important to create conditions for freedom of the energy market, where prices will be established based on the laws, values of supply and demand, but not on the condition that privatisation and breaking of already existing public, state-owned enterprises and those companies that exist in the private sector are being privatised. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have bad experience in Serbia when it comes to business in this system. When it comes to electricity, we know that it was exported at a lower price than our consumers in Serbia are paying. Why does the tender take place in both NIS and the electricity industry only in the purchase of electricity and oil and not in the sale? Not to talk about transit. It will take a long time to talk about transit, and one of the main reasons why this law is passed is the transit of oil, which is being prepared and which can benefit us, or the state of Serbia. It will only benefit if this law is not passed and does not allow those people to receive compensation as monopolies for the flow of oil by that pipeline. Next, we have bad experience... These MPs from G17 plus sometimes resent me, I know there are MPs in the Serbian Parliament, I know there are people from G17 plus that I know, both here and in Alexinac, and in Nis, of course, whose names I will not mention for their damage from those who lead the G17 plus, of which I can say all the best, who are honest. But I can't help but mention when I get that data all the time. We have bad experience, let's say, when Mladjan Dinkic, as governor of NBJ, transferred $20 million to the Euroaxis Bank in Moscow to buy energy. That money wasn't used for that purpose. It was a deal between him personally and the EFT, or Vuk Hamovic. Or why the former vice-president of the federal government and the minister of economic relations with abroad ordered fictitious exports -- imports, in the first case of 30,000 tonnes, and in the second case 130,000 tonnes of magut. Right through the disputed EFTA and Interface companies? In that case, the state of Serbia, NIS and EPS lost a total of $17.179,976 US dollars. We have many bad experiences to believe in good intentions and good solutions in the adoption and adoption of this law. Why AD? Why not mention the formation of the National Savings Bank a few years ago, which was announced in the media as a state national bank. It wasn't really a state-owned national bank, it was a private National Savings Bank all along. But on the condition that we believe that the National Savings Bank was state-owned, we now know that it's private, how did the form and the paperwork come to the conclusion that it's private now? The recapitalisation. We know that the second and third recapitalisation of the National Savings Bank was carried out between February and September 10, 2003. Do you want the reconstruction of NIS and now, if you claim that in the reconstruction of NIS everything remains in state hands, to bring down all these public enterprises and stock companies in the private sector to your people, the godfather clan, people from the best man's relationship. We all know, especially you in power, who are all human. We have experience from the previous government. They know the Democratic Party's MPs that the privatisation of Beopetrol was carried out and that he became the owner of Lukoil from Russia. You also know, and we Serbian Radical Party MPs, that's what the FSB reported, and it's not the Football Federation of Belgrade, nor the February alliance, but the Federal Security Service of Russia, when one of your party and state officials caught it in a position to get a huge amount of privatisation fee for Beopetrol, which passed on to the property of Lukoila. What about the Syrian oil affair of December last year or at the end of last year, when we paid enormously more expensively for Syrian oil, much worse quality than oil is normally supplied on the market in Europe and the world? Who took this money at the expense of the state, to the detriment of Serbia's oil industry? You are now asking the MPs of any party, especially the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, to trust you with good intentions. There's no... I am not addressing, of course, MPs, the ruling majority MPs will be responsible if they vote in favour of this law. I mean, there's no good intentions for those who create all these solutions in the bill. The intentions aren't good. They only intend to have someone, and they themselves come to a great fortune. In the end, with regard to the pipeline, you all know that there is talk of creating a large pipeline from the Caspian lake that should cross Serbia's territory to the west. Now someone needs to have a monopoly on the management of that part of the pipeline that's going through our territory. For that, a large fee should be paid from the owner to the one who manages it. Of course you want to avoid – again I say, not you MPs of the ruling majority, but those who create all this – that this compensation is paid to the state, but to someone from the private sector, to certain people who have come to a great fortune at the expense of the state, so that they also take that fee and put it in their pockets. You should finally, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, imagine what you're voting for. I know there's this party discipline, which is fine, I know there's an agreement within the party and coalition partners on what to vote on and how. As soon as the government proposes, you support the government, and the DSS, and the G17 plus and SPO-NS, as well as the SPS MPs, and you will eventually vote for this bill. It is a great responsibility for you individually, because after a time and a few years you will see that Serbia is losing a great deal in terms of creating new advantages and already existing advantages, both the states of Serbia and us and our descendants. Therefore many of them will not forgive you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18274	Thank you, Mr. Radovanovic. The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic. Here you go, Mr. Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18275	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of 81 MPs and on behalf of a million-and-a-half voters who voted for the SRS, I would like at the end of this debate today on one law that contains only three members, and you know that this is not a law on hunting and fishing, this is not a law on wine and brandy, it is a law on the greatest values that exist in Serbia and no one has the right to have in the way it is proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, I come as a national envoy from South Banat County, specifically from Panchev, where the largest oil refinery is. And let me remind you, and I believe that you know that within this oil complex there is also Petrochemy, which has seven factories that mainly produce and export abroad, whose capacities are large. During the year, it produces Petrochemia - Panchevo is exported to about 150 and even $170 million, and $150 million goes for domestic production. Ladies and gentlemen, who dared to restructure the economy in this way, or NIS if the "Petrochemical" - Panchevo was not included in this integrated process? Ladies and gentlemen, this is an industry of special importance, of national importance to the state of Serbia. No country in the world would have so easily approached the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure and at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In NIS alone in Pancheva, including Petrochemy, works about 7,000 workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the threat threatens, and we Serbian workers against selling this to those who will come from abroad with a purse and a bow and possess the invaluable value of the treasure and the good of the people of the Republic of Serbia. If you vote this bill, it is only in Panchev that the issue of 7,000 workers is whether they will stay to work 1,500 or 2,000, and these workers and members of their families who support them is 20,000 in total. It is not clear to me that the government has decided to seek a strategic partner, at least this government was least expected to do so. Every minister in the government, the previous one, and this one seems to be looking for his strategic partner. Why? He's got a goal. What's his intention? Its intention is to make it easy to obtain property, free of property and treasure of the people, and its goal is for those who come, the profiteers, to come to that capital for cheap money, and NIS's capital is enormous, invaluable, because even the proposer in this bill did not mention it anywhere. You of Serbian Radical Party MPs, Zoran Krasic, Milovan Radovanovic and others, have had the opportunity to remind you, and also to remind the public, which are consequences if the oil industry of Serbia is alienated this way. There is no here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, nor is there a speech on how the proposing's intention to form three businesses to bring better life to Serbian citizens; how it will increase salaries, how new employment will take place and how production will increase. About that, ladies and gentlemen, there's not a word, there's no speech. Whoever comes out with an unsettled or reasoned proposal like this, tie him up to a cat on the tail, the citizens of Serbia will have no idea and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have no use, no receipts. Let me remind you, when I was talking about Petrochemy, what would happen to the 17 products that are related to Petrochemy, what would happen when October 1st, because the one that needs to form this company for transport, for storage and the rest, that, as my colleague Radovanovic said earlier, yes, Markovic, the one from A.D. is going to turn the tap. Who's going to solve it? The International Court of Strasbourg? They will not solve life issues of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is only of interest to them and was their sole goal to pass through Serbia, to occupy it with their troops to march and to have their traffickers solve even the issue of traffic in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad tomorrow and not to count. Ladies and gentlemen, I warn you, we accuse whoever dared to waste the biggest capital in the Republic of Serbia this way cheaply and to create conditions and opportunities for robbers and thieves on the side to come, to pick up the kamak and one day to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest robbery is being made, whether you understand it or not, the biggest robbery in Serbia is being prepared if this parliament would allow the profiteers to pass a certain law that creates opportunities for them to pick up a kamak, create conditions, create capital here without Serbian citizens seeing the benefits and not seeing the scales. Everything in Serbia is sold. It even came to the sale of land, the sale of land that is most fertile. We can't let this happen to us in this state of Serbia anymore. At least he was expected from the government that was current, but you see, the minister came out today and said – he is unable to inform the MPs who was the promoter, who was the intention and what he wanted with this. However, we Serbian radicals are quite clear. We expect MPs, electors, as one of our fellow Members called the MPs elected by Serbian citizens, to not allow this to go cheap and create opportunities for thieves to destroy Serbia and its assets that the people have created for decades, and workers. So don't vote against this law. This law is doomed, this law is wrong, this law is harmful, let no longer be done in this way of privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18276	The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18277	Dear People's MPs, it's no accident. Both in life and in nature, there are no coincidences, these are the causes and consequences, and the time when this law is proposed to be on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the consequences resulting from the adoption of this law are not only the consequences that will be the biggest robbery ever committed in this area of Serbia, it will be likely, if this authority survives and there are no extraordinary parliamentary elections, more robberies with the resources of the people and the state. But this is neither the invention of this government nor this regime. That's what Joseph Broz did, when he broke a situation in the former Great Yugoslavia, that's what he did in July of the month, and that Brionic Pleum and those other key decisions, he did in that July. Many today in Serbia are pressured by the situation in which they are located, too difficult to survive, because they are either out of work or with minimum salaries or work without pay, without talking about pensioners; and today we have seen in the daily press that pensions of 4,500 are the smallest pensions, and these smallest pensions have more than 300,000 in the state of Serbia, and therefore we have the maximum pensions of 55,000 dinars. You can no longer understand or understand everything that is happening in the state of Serbia. Here, the minister tried in a way with some phrases to explain the inevitable adoption of this three-member law. I, first as a man, and the second as a People's MP, understood and realized that with the text of this law at least one piece of information came. If nothing else, what has the government done by preparing this bill and preparing the concept of creating two public enterprises and a company from NIS until October. We are also witnesses as MPs, as well as citizens of Serbia, that, like the previous government, this government has continued to sell national goods that are not at any cost to be sold, what not only these generations should serve, but we should leave to generations behind: both water and farmland, and highways that have been ruled by generations ahead of us, and factories of dedicated production, and I see, and that is intended to be sold. The next stage is the dispersal of electricity and the sale of electricity. Whoever built the oil industry, and refineries, and gas stations, who built thermal power plants, hydropower plants, transmission systems, power lines in Serbia -- were built by workers, peasants and all Serbian citizens decades ago. Now we're in a situation where we keep mentioning the word "earned." Who earned what, if he didn't get it in accordance with the positive laws, if he didn't settle his obligations to the state, if he robbed it? Who earned it, if he was a sanctioned, war profiter, a profiter from a transition? Where can the word "earth" even be used? The profit is what a man gained by his sweat, his work, his honest, and his knowledge. Those who have earned the dirtiest money back in a few years are now in a situation where they become owners of our destiny, the fate of our children and our descendants, not only of life but of death, and of the conditions in which all those generations that come behind us will live. One of the most important resources that every country tries, and if it has to be a serious state, to keep to itself, to its people, is the oil industry. We've heard here that 100 years ago, war on energy was waged. Perhaps at some point next, future times will be waged by wars around water. Can the state of Serbia and Serbian citizens allow themselves to be left without the oil industry, to be owned by the state? Is the French public... But this nation has dignity, the French state has its dignity. When news was released yesterday or yesterday about the possibility of Americans becoming the owners of France's largest food processing company, and that, imagine, for $55 billion, the entire French and French public were raised, as it humiliates the French people and the French state, because it is their largest company. This company feeds the French people, and we or these governments that we have are actually trying to take everything away from us, to run out of anything, even without what our ancestors left us, and what we should leave to our descendants. Are we selling mines or mines? The next day, when it's the Public Enterprise of the Serbs, are we going to sell the woods? Who are we gonna sell those woods to? Will it be these criminals who have been robbed, through the various disasters that Serbia and the Serbian people have been going through, have come up with the dirtiest money, blood money; will they now legalise it through such privatisations, changes, when it comes to state-run public enterprises? What kind of state can't have that in its possession? What's a state? The state is fiction. In fact, the people own everything in this area of the Serbian state, if it's called state property. Neither is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government only plays certain roles in the name of the people and manages. The people gave, through their representatives, the MPs, to choose the government, to carry out on behalf of the people, in the interest of the people management of state resources. Unfortunately, that doesn't make any sense. The government is understood that those who come to be members of the government, to be ministers, carry out their mandate to make themselves rich, or groups that have to listen and work on someone's orders. It is also with this Public Enterprise NIS obvious situation. We hope that the citizens of Serbia will not accept that this is how this is done and that the people are left with nothing in Serbia and become slaves, primarily robbers, over those who are now in Serbia and robbers from Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-22-0.u18278	Thank you, Mr. Four. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for a word, we will take a break of an hour, and then we will ask if they want the word of the president, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. So, break to 15.10 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who hasn't used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. According to Article 85(4) of the Law, due to the importance of this law, we continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
