ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11059	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 134 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vesna Obradovic and Natasa Micic. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session, in agreement with the presidents of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time, set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt proposals for laws and other acts in the agenda, which in their request for the first extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 were established by 94 MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since there are no 126 present, we will not now adopt the minutes, but in the day for the vote. Also, we will not decide on a proposal to merge the agenda points. I would like to inform you that, with a call from the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was called upon by 94 MPs, in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted a request for the maintenance of the First Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruits, vines and hops, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a Law on Railways, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law on Postal Services, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a Law on Mediation, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Action Plan for the Harmonisation of Economic Systems of State Communities of Serbia-Montenegro to prevent and eliminate obstacles to the free flow of people, goods, services and capital, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law establishing a public air traffic undertaking, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. A Bill on Labour by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 8 / 8 Proposal for a Family Law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 9. Proposal for a law on public agencies, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Charter Market Act of Values and other financial instruments, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Action Fund, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 13. Proposal for a law on regulation of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia and banks in bankruptcy on the basis of foreign credits, i.e. loans, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 14. The Statute of the National Bank of Serbia, submitted by the National Bank of Serbia, 15. Report on the operation of the Securities Commission for 2003, with an annual account and a report from the authorised auditor submitted by the Securities Commission, 16. Commission's financial plan for 2004 for securities, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 17. The Commission’s value-based financial plan for 2005, which was submitted by the Securities Commission, 18. Selection of members of the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency from lists submitted by authorised proposings, 19. Selection of members of the National Education Council, 20. Proposal for a decision to apply immunity to MP Darko Glisic, who was submitted by the Administrative Committee, 21. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of an archival building held at the "Nikole Tesla" Museum as Nikola Tesla's Personal Fund for Cultural Well-being, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and 22. Termination of office and selection of judicial holders. Work on the agenda. We move to the 1st item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the current fruit material, VIN'S VINE AND HMELJA You have adopted the bill, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Agriculture and the Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: SRS - one hour 38 minutes and 24 seconds, DSS - one hour three minutes and 36 seconds, DS - Boris Tadic - 44 minutes and 24 seconds, G17 plus - 37 minutes and 12 seconds, SPO-NS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, SPS - 26 minutes and 24 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any MP group, three SDP MPs, by five minutes, and on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I would like to inform you that representatives for DSS Zoran Nikolic and the SPS Brance Stojanovic are authorised for this item of the agenda. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the proposing representative, Dr Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11060	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a bill on fruity fruity fruity materials, vines and hops. The new law regulates the categorisation of fruit material, production, transport and import of fruit material, obligations of legal persons dealing with production, transport and import, recognition of domestic newly created varieties, registration of varieties in the register of varieties, list of recommended varieties and inspection and controls. Quality fruit material is a product or a consequence of a programme consisting of production, maintenance and multiplication, as well as distribution of plant material, with the intention of being placed on the market with official confirmation, means a label or certificate, which guarantees the status of the material. The type of production of such material is to ensure that the fruit grower and producer receive standardized material that will be of good quality, sortly correct and free from pathogens. In order to establish a programme of production of healthy fruit material, it is necessary to meet all the requirements of several requirements, which is, above all, to adopt, adopt and publish standards that define the purpose, terminology, all protocols and procedures, therefore, the law and following the rules. The material used in the program must be correct and the best clones must be selected. Therefore, methods must be available to detect the pathogen certification programme and experts trained to identify the disease. They must also be introduced into the procedure of maintenance of basic parent material, retesting and introducing new material. Measures must be introduced to control all established standards, and the most important thing is that fruit producers themselves require and accept a certification programme. The production of fruit material must be clearly defined and there must be a legally supported basis on which it will be based. In Serbia, despite the frequent emphasis on the importance and economic importance of fruit growing for the country's economy, there was no legal procedure to produce healthy fruit material by definition that is in line with international standards. The new law establishes the categorisation of fruit material and should guarantee fruit producers that the material has no symptoms of viral or virus-like diseases, that it was obtained exclusively from the parent plants released from the virus, that it was absolutely produced in conditions without disease vectors, that it was subjected to regular control, that it was produced on isolated parcels, that it was produced on land where there is no nematode and that it has a variety of purity. In the current law, the production of fruit material can deal with all legal and physical persons that are almost 2,000. Under the new law, the production and transport of imported fruit material can be handled by legal persons registered in the register of transporters and importers. Therefore, the manufacturer will be obliged to register, keep a record book, produce fruit material of all varieties entered in the register and provide consent from the owner of the protected variety to multiply the fruit material of that variety. The new law says that the placing on the market of fruit material can be done by legal persons who are registered in the register, and can be placed exclusively on the basic, certified and standard fruit material of varieties that are included in the register of varieties; the material can be placed on the market exclusively in sales places and cannot be out of sales place. The retail traffic can be made if they have an employee at the point of sale with at least a fourth degree of professional preparation of the agricultural profession. This law also regulates the new recognition of domestic newly created varieties of fruit, vines and hops, and the variety is recognised if it is different, stable, if it has a favourable use and production value and if the name of the variety is in accordance with the prescribed requirements. Also, this law will allow much faster introduction into the production of varieties that the market requires and recognises; there is a liberalisation of the introduction of foreign varieties and will allow for the adoption of new varieties without administrative-burocratic burdens and, at the same time, the provision of a proposal for cultivation by regions in Serbia. I call on you to vote for this law because the future of modern fruit growing in Serbia depends on the healthy and quality fruity material and the modern variety it will provide. Thank you for your extraordinary attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11061	Thank you. I'm asking, do the officials of the committees want a word? The Agriculture Committee, Dragan Rafaelovic, vice president? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11062	Mr President, Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have before us today the proposal for a law on fruity fruity materials of fruity fruity fruits, vines and hops. Given that the issue and the topic in the area of agriculture is, I am taking the opportunity, because we are at the beginning of the calendar year, to wish all agricultural producers, all the heirs in agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, the Minister of Agriculture, a happy and barberate year 2005. So agricultural production is very important, if not the most important for our country. In addition, for the growth of the social product in 2004 we can primarily thank our birth year 2004. I would also like to begin by thanking the President of the National Assembly who accepted the 94 MPs proposal and listed the topic from agriculture as the first item of the agenda. I hope there is a desire in this to make up for it, and I just want to point out and remind you that a very lively legislative activity has been announced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Water Management and Forestry for the past year. She's, as she's known, missing. We also have an understanding of why, it was wanted to bring about appropriate frameworks for the adoption of laws in the area of agriculture. The Committee on Agriculture of this Assembly makes a solid contribution to this, and I hope that in the following year, what has been missed, if at all missed, will be compensated, and we know that we lack legislative action from this area. We lack the cooperative law, which is very important; not to mention why it is important and how difficult the situation is on the ground now for non-organised agricultural producers and not having the opportunity to obtain quality re-promatter for spring sowing. Furthermore, the law on the use of state land; we have a situation that in large systems, in large combinations, there is a real danger, and people who deal with agriculture know this, that very quickly, if they do not approach solving these problems, we can talk about the deforestation of this agricultural land, because, people who do so know this, the abandoned field is moving very quickly into something that cannot be a parcel for growing agricultural products. I would take advantage of the Minister of Agriculture's presence and just for a moment step out of the context of what we're talking about today. I assume that the people in the Ministry take care of it, have this information, I'm sure they do, and that's the current situation regarding the application of the law that this assembly has passed, and that's the Value Added Tax Act, where, by applying this law, agricultural production is, in the broadest sense, additionally burdened. So, according to some of my information, and I'm guessing that the people of the Ministry know better, 8% of the mineral fertilisers have been collected, 8% of the total chemical for protection, i.e. pesticides in the broadest sense of the word. In addition, some of our factories have already raised the price by 20%, and there are announcements that others are doing so. The concentrated food for the production of concentrates is also due to the application of value added tax, and this otherwise difficult situation in agriculture is further consistent. I use the opportunity, in some ways I appeal and ask the Minister for the Prime Minister to see what a possibility is, and I think it exists, that by means of a government regulation or by some act, an attempt to eliminate this additional burden, which is very important for the application of agricultural production; if not completely released, then at least return to that level of 8%, otherwise the Law on Value Added Tax is already allowed. I think it's unnecessary, and that's what we talked about when we adopted the budget, that we're raising funds from the budget for something that we're additionally burdening in this way, and yet it's budgetary resources, because I'm afraid that with the application of this law there's a possibility... I come from a region that is mostly fruity - winery, but in addition to that a significant number of parcels are under wartime cultures and I know it's reliable that at the old price of fertilizer, I think that the people of the Ministry know, the application of complex or mixed fertilisers has been practically lost in the autumn crop; and what might be important for this fruit-wine-growing area is that at this new price will be even less applied in the next period, and above all for the spring sowing. I am taking the opportunity and calling for the Minister of Agriculture to try to fight for this benefit; it is not an opportunity, but an equal chance, i.e. a realistic chance for farmers to apply modern agrotechnics, if we can even talk about applying modern agrotechnics in the coming period. As far as the law on fruit material is concerned, the SPS parliamentary group will support this law. It's a logical bill of law because we've passed the Forest Trees Act. This is one good law, and we heard from Madam Minister what he regulated. I again underline that I come from a region that is one of the more developed regions in Serbia with fruit and vineyard production. I know reliably that many varieties, many fruit species, producers illegally had to bring from various fairs across Europe. I think this law regulates that and that advanced producers, people who are seriously involved in this work in the coming period, will be able to solve all these problems legally. I'm on the Committee on Agriculture, and here I am now taking the opportunity... I know reliably that many producers in the modern region, primarily winemakers, have had problems with the purchase of quality vine material over a long period of time. It was not a much better situation with either fruit material and appeal, and above all, I am undermining Article 17, which gives the minister the opportunity to write closer terms that need to meet the selling place for fruit material, to definitely stand in the way of wild selling fruit material. We today have sold fruit material from the market, to neighborhoods, parts of the city, where unprofessional people, mostly people who have not produced it, sell to people unquality fruit material, which in this production is very risky because the cycle of production is such that the results of poor fruit material can unfortunately be seen only after three to four years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11063	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has an authorised DSS representative, Zoran Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11064	Dear Minister, it is a good sign when, in the new year, the first item of the agenda is the law that is in the area of agriculture. I want to believe and share the hope of all those who live from agriculture that this is a good sign that in this year in the sphere of law, when we talk about this area, we will make significant moves than we did in the past, especially in those first three years, so 2001, 2002 and 2003. As for this law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruit, grapevine and hops, I think the minister basically said everything that matters. This law can also be compared to the law we passed at the previous session, when it comes to the fruity material of forest species. So there are similarities to this extent that the intensity of both this law and that law is identical, which is primarily to seducing order in the area of production and transport of fruit material. What is characteristic of this law is that it is written in a clear form, in one logical sequence and I am sure that when you have such a clear law and its application will be achieved in the way that the Proposer wants it to be. What's the practical situation on the ground today? We have a large number of producers dealing with the production of fruit material, but unfortunately, this quantity does not give birth to the necessary quality that we should have as a state if we want to go back to the European and international markets, where we once played a more significant role. Here, criteria are clearly defined which can be used to produce fruit material and which quality must be respected. Thus, order is being taken in the area, and we will still have much stronger guarantees thanks to this law, because the fruit material will be freed from disease and pests. So we're going to have healthy fruit material, which is the intensity of this law. Once again, I wouldn't continue to owe, this, in my opinion, is a very good and concise law that, I suppose, won't be much of a dispute. I believe that this is just an announcement and an introduction, when we talk about the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry, only one beginning of a bill that is being proposed by agriculture, water and forestry in one serious way, with a clear intention of returning to the international market, i.e., first of all, the European market.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11065	Do any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, DSS, G17 plus and SPS. I give my word to the MP, Hranislav Periæ of the SPS parliamentary group, and let the MP John Day be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11066	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we begin a session in the new year 2005 with a law on fruity fruity materials of fruity fruity fruits, vines and hops. I must admit, I expected the government to try to address the accumulated problems in agriculture as a priority. In 2004, it was only good that the year was born and gave birth to all that was planted. That's where God helped us. Everything that depended on people, on the price, on the ransom, on the export, was no good. Farmers did not pick all fruit from the orchard, I mean cherry and plum, in the southern Serbian area. No one wanted to buy for the rest of the harvest. As the harvest ran, the price was getting lower, so as much as the price was, so did the pickers. In the end, the year is over, the producers haven't charged their products, and no one promises that it will happen. I'll talk about it later, because, as a MP, citizens ask me every day who to turn to in this country to collect their products. When I received the law on fruity fruity material of fruity fruity fruits, vines and hops, I hoped it would make it easier for manufacturers to work on the production of fruity material. When the law is better looked at, he only foresees new obligations for producers. According to Article 5, the manufacturer must be registered in the producer register, which means that companies that have experts in these areas will be able to meet these conditions, and an individual who has been in the business for years will not be able to do so. The registration in the register can only be made in the Ministry of Agriculture and only the minister responsible for agricultural affairs makes a solution for enrolment in the register. Wasn't it better to find a better solution in this section at the municipal level? Each municipality has employed agricultural experts, why do we refer agricultural producers to the Ministry? In Article 9, the manufacturer is obliged to keep the book of fruit material records. It's another obligation for the manufacturer. Is our farmer able to do it or does he have to pay someone? No seedling, a book and a pen, and write, and draw, and draw, that it may look best. The seedling wants a bath, chemical protection, and a lot of work. If it is thought that keeping books will improve the production of fruit material, so be it. Article 13(3) provides for the introduction of a plant passport. We have not yet managed to resolve passports for citizens, on passports still stands - Yugoslavia, which does not exist. I don't know what it's going to say on plant passports. Article 14 states that the costs for enrolment in the register, for applying for the production of fruit material and for issuing certificates on the production of fruit material shall be borne by the manufacturer. What else do we put on the manufacturer's load? Can the producers of the fruit material withstand all these costs? Selling fruit material is a special story in this law. The manufacturer needs a place of sale. The seller shall require a person who has at least a fourth degree of professional training of the agricultural profession. The sale of seedlings is seasonal, at the time of planting, one or two months. What's that face gonna sell off that season? Does a manufacturer who produces seedlings for ten and more years not know how to sell seedlings, but who has to pay for it? Do we educate the agricultural profession of the fourth degree as a fit to produce seedlings or to trade and sell seedlings? There's obviously something wrong here. At first, I said that agricultural problems had to be resolved. I'm afraid, as the situation in agriculture is currently moving, the producers of fruit material will have no one to sell it to. Who's gonna plant new plantations when he didn't charge for last year's stork? I got a letter from the exporting producer in southern Serbia, and a lot of them here in the O.R., all the MPs' clubs. We were also approached by buyers from the south of Serbia, manufacturers from Toplica, Reljinca, Mala Plana toplice, Književac, Merošina, "Rožina Komerc" etc. They bought for the company "Tweety Company" from Nis and bought 500 extra cars. The Twitter company is currently under bankruptcy and now there is no one to pay the agricultural producers cherry. The court leads the bankruptcy and says, "Wait." The buyers found themselves in a terrible position, as day-to-day producers chase them for money. No one here responds to this problem, and the problem covers 25,000 agricultural producers. In the end, I think this law needed to regulate and sell and export fruit material, because it happened in practice earlier years to sell a lot of fruit material, and then we have no one to sell the product to. When we sell the seedlings to everyone in the environment, I don't know who we're selling the products to. I think the law should have regulated this question in a certain way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11067	Before I give my word to the next speaker, one notice: a session of the Legislative Committee will be held today, on 18 January 2005, at 13:15 p.m., in a small hall. I give my word to the People's Messenger, John Daja, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vladislav Kronic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, I come from the Vrsac, the Municipality of Vrsac, the White Church and the partial Alibunar, where the vines are grown, especially in Vrsac and the White Church, where the vine is grown with the rest of the fruit. The White Church is especially famous for an apple that is famous even throughout Europe, not to mention the pear I have to mention, when I mentioned the pear, especially the pear william, and the other varieties of pears, that the huge pear plantations in the White Church are destroyed because of infectious diseases, so I fear that this law does not guarantee adequate protection of fruity wine grapevine material, and I fear that the vines in this area do not have a similar fate as was the case with the production of the pear. We are particularly interested in the quality of the fruit material, health and distribution of fruit material of the vine, whether the fruit material will be domestically produced or imported, and this is of particular interest to wine growers in Vrsac and the White Church. Will the government, or the Ministry of Agriculture, organise the supply of this fruit material, its protection against infectious diseases, and will the Ministry of Agriculture organise the purchase of fruit material, the production and purchase of grapes and other grape products, such as wine and other alcoholic beverages obtained by the processing of grapes? Or we will have a problem like when it comes to infectious diseases, particularly brucellosis diseases, which occurred in the municipality of Alibunar, the local community of Vladimirovac, where inadequate protection against infectious diseases was carried out in sheep and where brucellosis occurred in 2001, and that neither previous minister nor current minister had taken certain measures to ensure that this infectious disease in the Vladimirovac local community and probably to other meat communities was contained in an adequate manner and allowed sheep producers safe production and protection of their livestock. The disease of brucellosis sheep was diagnosed in Vladimirovac as early as 2001, when the owners of sheep allowed the extraction of blood and the execution of 200 sheep was then carried out. The sheep were then killed in an inhumane way with a hunting rifle, where they were still buried alive, and some fled. This is also the fact that sheep are terrains over uninfected pastures, that no disinfection of the courtyard has been performed, that meat, milk and cheese continue to be transported smoothly, that some herds have not been examined, some of the cattle needed have caused confusion and thought about whether the disease exists at all. Also, in the meantime, one owner with seven sheep took the stamps off the infected sheep and mixed them with a healthy one. Later, the analysis found that all sheep were healthy. Also, two infected cows and one unmarked heifer were taken from one owner, and eight infected sheep were never taken. That the disease no longer exists was thought to be during 2002, when no blood was taken for analysis. In early 2003, the disease was re-registered, and it was on multiple throats. All the above-mentioned irregularities caused that in June 2003 a meeting of representatives of the Institute of Pančevo, the municipality of Alibunar, the private veterinary office "Dora" Vladimirovac, was organised in the municipality of Vladimirovac, where the general conclusion was that the next period would be better and more expeditative. At that time, a record was asked by the owner of the sheep, which was laid out in the words of the Republic veterinary inspector that it would not be used against them, but that it must pass on to its bosses in such a way as to convey the thinking of sheep owners. At that time, it was asked to take results from another institute in order to remove any doubt, which was later signed by about 300 households. It has been requested that the private "Dora" veterinary station for the sake of the work's ride be excused from taking blood samples in front of the institute. It was also a general finding that long waits for results, in one part almost a year, which condition the spread of the infection. At the end of 2003, there was another execution of sheep. During 2004, a number of sheep were killed again. The records of shepherds who were the most persistent to fail fortifications are adequate, and they are firstly punishable for not allowing blood extraction, and the state should pay about 30,000 dinars. Also, one death toll wasn't paid. Some shepherds, such as Nikolayev, were threatened to kill all their sheep. Some, as the Carthage of Peter, had one infected throat in 2001, and now about 70 throats. Unsatisfactory sheep owners, meanwhile, complained to the municipality of Alibunar, which sent a request to the agriculture ministry, but remained. Also, letters were sent to the ministry on several occasions by the local community, but was only agreed at the end of 2004. A meeting was organised at the Veterinary Administration in Belgrade, but with no concrete conclusions, the Animal Protection Society "Arka" Novi Sad, the province's DS board, has been informed, but the silence of these people continues. This way, we ask you, as the most responsible ministry, to protect healthy cattle and that these infected throats are properly rehabilitated. That due to their lack of work in the repression and eradication of brucellosis, they call for the responsibility of the Republic veterinary inspector, to exclude the competent private veterinary station "Dora" Vladimirovac from signing 300 households that he does not want to work with her. We ask that, in addition to the results of the Panchea Institute, we analyse our blood cost at another institute, to prove they miss the work of the institutions, to officially inform the City Court in Alibunar and to establish further proceedings against these cattle breeders. Number one, sheep are raised here from the primordial. They are our material value and our families living off these incomes. We think, if it continues to work like this, all the livestock funds will be destroyed in the near perspective. Here's a petition of 300 households who signed all of this, so we're afraid that the production of the wine line will experience the same fate if the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't adequately address all these problems that have turned out in agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11069	The People's Messenger Vladislav Kronic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11070	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am really pleased to have in front of this high house an important law for agriculture, and you will admit that agriculture is very important for this country, because the fact is that 40 percent of the citizens of this country live on agriculture. We have before us a law on fruity fruit, grapevine and hops and this is only one in a series of laws that should now be regulated by the area of agriculture. We recently passed a Law on fruity forest wood material in this high house. Today we are talking about fruity fruity material of fruity fruity fruity vines and hops, and I hope soon the seed law. Current legislation is only one of the reasons why these laws should be passed. Another important reason why these laws should be passed is the current situation precisely in the production of fruit and fruit vines and hops. As far as current legislation is concerned, the law on seed and fruit material covers a very wide area and does not exist, given the very large number of plant species, the possibility that one law actually regulates and manufactures paprika seeds, and the production of fruit trees, vines and forest plants. The situation in this area is also one of the reasons why this law should be passed, because the situation is very bad. This area has indeed been one of the areas where we have had a situation in recent years not to advance, but to significantly reverse. Let me remind you, this country used to be an exporter of this very fruity material and of the vines and made a significant foreign exchange inflow. Today, given the lack of legislation that is in line with European legislation, not that we are not exporters, but we cannot even import according to current laws good quality fruit material. The production of fruit material under the current law allowed all legal and physical persons without professional education to produce very unquality and incorrect fruit material. Also, the sale of this fruit material takes place in inadequate places. Of course all these reasons are enough to pass the law. However, the Constitutional Charter and the law implementing the Constitutional Charter require that the republics must adopt laws in this area. Those are legal reasons. We also need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation. This law regulates the conditions and manner of production, transport and import of fruity fruity fruit, vines and hops, the recognition of newly created varieties, the registration of varieties in the register of varieties and the maintenance of varieties entered in the register, as well as the list of recommended varieties and backgrounds. In the first chapter, where the basic provisions are, 11 terms are defined. Article 3 defines what is fruit material, what is fruit material reproduction, what is fruit, what is a variety, who is a fertilizer, who is responsible for the maintenance of varieties, or who is the maintainer of varieties, who is the producer of fruit material, is defined as the place of production of fruit material, the quality of fruit material, the recognition of varieties, and we have one newspaper, which is the introduction of a recommended list of varieties for cultivation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Article 4, unlike the previous law, defines the categories of fruit material and introduces pre-basic, basic, certified and standard fruit material. Today we have a phenomenon in this country that there is only standard fruit material in transport, and it is incorrect fruit material. The second section of this law defines the production of fruit material, defines who may be the manufacturer, and that is another newspaper. So they can be both legal and physical. In Article 6, the manufacturer’s register and the conditions for registration in the producer’s register shall be introduced. Article 9 also introduces a register of fruit material, so that it can have a record from the manufacturer. Article 11 regulates production for foreign customers, where it allows the import of material and complete production of fruit material, or is intended to be exported. Article 13 defines the issue of certificates, which is also one newspaper, on the produced fruit material. This article introduces another document that is also very important for those who buy seedlings to be sure that they buy healthy seedlings, without plant diseases, pests; a plant passport is introduced, which is issued in accordance with the rules on plant protection. The fourth part of this law regulates the transport of fruit material, and it is also a quality newspaper. Articles 15 to 18 are regulated by this material, where the news is that fruit material can only be sold by the person who has completed at least a fourth degree of professional preparation, means that we allow the purchasers of fruit material to sell them that fruit material. The fifth part of this law also regulated the import of fruit material, in Articles 19 and 20. As far as the sixth part of this law is concerned, it is the recognition of newly created domestic varieties and registration in the register of varieties of orchards, vines and hops, in Articles 21 - 49. I'd like to keep your attention on Article 23 where some newspapers are being introduced, and these are primarily the DUS test, the VCU test and, of course, the provision on the names of the variety. As far as the VCU test is concerned, it's one test that speaks of the useful value of the fruit, and I'd keep your attention on the DUS test. It is one newspaper that is necessary to introduce, where exactly the properties of the variety are defined, and each new variety must differ in one feature from the previous variety. It is very important that this enters our legislation, precisely because we want to sell our products on the European market and that we do not get into problems, such as some countries that are harder to do today, found that their varieties are not really theirs, but are varieties that have become theirs in some way, and have not become quite legal. Members from 27th to 37th shall be governed by the procedure of recognition of the newly created variety. Articles 38 to 45 shall regulate the procedure and way of enrolling in the register of varieties and bases. Articles 46 to 49 regulate how the variety is maintained. The seventh chapter of this law in Articles 50 to 54 regulates the supervision of the implementation of this law, as well as the regulations adopted under this law. In the eighth part, of course, any law to be a good law must also have its own criminal provisions, Articles 55 - 58 regulate exactly the criminal provisions for those who do not comply with these laws. At the very end, in the ninth part of this law, in the transitional and final provisions, it was left for a year to apply this law, so that producers could adapt within a year to this law. The G17 Group of MPs will support the adoption of this law and will vote for this law, primarily for all the reasons I have stated. One of the good points that I have stated is that no additional funding is needed in the Republic of Serbia's budget to implement this law. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on you to support the adoption of this law, so that this time and this law will bring us closer to one regulated relationship with agriculture and that agriculture will slowly begin to draw closer to those conditions that exist on the market, particularly in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11071	Thank you. The People's Messenger Stevica Dedjanski has the word, and let the MP Dragan Petrovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11072	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let me just say I come from Vrsec. I note that because we have, as you have just heard from one predecessor, the tradition of vineyarding. It's mostly known to everyone. The villages of Vršac and the White Church have developed fruit growing and many families living there have an additional or even only income from it. I can say that the trend of the development of local self-government in the coming period is also in the development of viticulture, fruit growing, beekeeping and general agriculture, and we see some positive example in this law, so I'm going to say something, as well as a few criticisms. Generally speaking, this law is, in any case, better than the one that existed and one of the reasons why it is better is that there are some norms and some criteria that apply to not everyone being able to deal with the sale of seedlings, fruit material, but only legal persons. We think there's finally some order in place. It is prescribed that there should be some conditions and a place to be sold, to be marked, planned and must exist in every place where a certain professional preparation for the sale of these materials is sold; it must also have a qualified workforce from the profession of an employee, which guarantees some seriousness in further work. One of the essential reliefs in this law is that it is easier to introduce fruit material, because it is no longer seen in fertility, but only health care, which should be of interest to the state as a state. Comments on this law are the most relevant to fines, as there are large differences between natural and legal persons in favour of natural persons, making certain people avoid legal personality status in order to be punished as little as possible. I think there might be some sort of correction here. I'll also list articles 17, 25, 30. etc.; a lot of mention is made of the minister -- closer to the regulation of the minister, the minister determines; a minister is regularly mentioned and we think it should be some institution that is more relevant. That's one remark, it's not really a big deal, and I don't think it would be a bad thing to make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11073	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Petrovic, and let MP Branko Rankovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11074	Dear chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we all know that Serbia is an agrarian country and 44% of the population lives from agriculture. Agricultural policy is impossible to implement effectively without a generous agrarian budget, and last year it was 21 billion. We expect this year's agrarian budget, which is three times larger than in 2003, to again be such that our farmers and our agriculture are moving forward. The government, for the first time, wants to help Serbian citizens and is trying not to seek help from them, but to enable them to live a better life through their financial injections and stimulations. This is seen through a way of lending, especially in agriculture, which is one of the best models back 15 years. In the last year, we had long-term lending with two billion dinars and short-term lending with 1.7 billion dinars, where 28 thousand agricultural producers received credit incentives. Today, there is a law on the agenda that is important for agriculture and which is the basis for production, the law on fruity fruity materials of fruity fruits, vines and hops. This is the basis for producing healthy and quality fruit material and something that will bring something new, better quality and safer in the production itself. The current law does not prescribe categories of fruit material, as basic conditions for the production of healthy, tested, controlled and freed fruit material from diseases and pests. This law introduces four basic categories of fruit material. Under the current law, the production of fruit material can be organised by all legal and physical persons. This conditioned the appearance of a large number of manufacturers without professional education and produced unskilled and medically incorrect fruit material. Under the new law, a producer register is introduced and they must meet the standards and strictly prescribed conditions of production. We have a problem because under the current law, the sale of fruit material could be carried out at every step and was not legally sanctioned. With the new law, the sale of fruit material will be in places that ensure the preservation of the quality of fruit material and, with the presence of an employee, appropriate professional equipment so that it can give quality information to each customer. The introduction of four basic categories of fruit material and this law would bring the legislation in line with the European legislation and certification scheme, which would lead to the possibility of exporting domestic fruit material to the world market. Also, according to the new law, only basic, certified and standard fruit material of varieties entered in the register of varieties can be placed on the market and must meet the required quality. Law enforcement at this time does not require any additional financial resources at all. The effect of the law is such that the introduction of four basic categories of fruit material would bring our regulation into line with the prescribed European legislation, which would lead to the possibility of exporting our domestic fruit material to the world market. Exports would produce an effect that is not negligible, both for those who would produce and export fruit material and for the agricultural branch itself. There are excellent climate and land conditions in Serbia for the production of fruit material. We have a long tradition, and the fact is that we were once the largest producers of fruit winevine in Europe, and a few years ago we didn't do it anymore; we would go back to those markets and the financial effect would be great and significant for our agriculture. I call on you to vote, like the G17 Group of MPs, for this law, because it solves problems in an area that has not been properly regulated so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11075	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Rankovic, and let MP Milica Vojic-Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11076	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I'm going out for this pay phone for the first time, and I'm only dealing with the production of fruit material, I'd say this law is better than the previous law, but there are some small problems. It is foreseen here that only a legal person can deal with the production of seedlings and I think that's good, because under this law anyone can't do it. So far, we, the legal producers, who produced the seedlings, have not been able to sell from producers who are doing it illegally. They could sell as they please, because their inspection literally couldn't do anything and their sentences were small. There is one problem in this law – criminal provisions are small for natural persons and large for legal persons. Basically, a legal person may make a mistake some time and pay large fines, while a natural person under these criminal provisions has an account to pay the fine, better than to report production. The law is well regulated in Article 9, because it sortes the fruit material. As far as the sales place is concerned, I think it's a solid solution, because it's not real for everyone to sell seedlings in every place. There is one problem in this law, where a lot of things have been suggested that the minister proposes; so, for example, around this point of sale – not only does the minister define the sales place, it should be known in advance, in the bill of law that it should look like a sales place, or the minister can prescribe that seedlings can still be sold on the truck. It's kind of awkward for manufacturers who do serious manufacturing. There's a problem with stemming trees. We discussed this yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture, and here I was present; the Institute in Cačka, which produces a wave of plums, sells copyrights for their newly created varieties. See what happens – as a producer of fruit material, I cannot do the mothering of their seedlings; it is not the problem of paying, the problem is right. There is a problem that you can buy seedlings in one place; it can kill a city at the Institute of Cačka where you can buy and no longer have a chance to buy nobles elsewhere. I think in this law, you too, as Minister, will insist that this change. I told you about these criminal provisions, and I don't think that's real. It's not real to people who are registered, because he pays extra workers, and someone who produces real interference with unfair competition. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11077	Thank you. The People's MP Milica Vojić-Markovic has the word, and let the MP of the people prepare Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mrs. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11078	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, by preparing this law, I have two very opposite and different things in my eyes, and it's actually the same thing, and here's what. First of all, if we look at Serbia's position and look at the climate that our Serbia has, we can conclude that fruit production can be what Serbia lives on from. On the other hand, if we look at the status and position that Serbia has on the fruit market and the fruit material of fruit and wine varieties, we will see that these two things are in complete collage, in fact our place and our position there is not. So far, the production of fruit material has dealt with both legal and physical persons, regardless of the professional equipment, and this has been repeated more than once for this speaker as very good and positive, because we are born by knowing that something is being done. It is very problematic if the fruit and vegetable producer accidentally takes a pen, paper and book and reads and sees that it can produce much more quality and much more than it has done before. If we want to go to the European and the world market, and we say we will, then it's time to look facts in the eye and see what we can do with what we are now and move on one step further. I am now seeing the bill as a step further, as one of the small but very important steps to make the area of agriculture, which is very important for this country, definitely, finally edits and finally puts an end to this ride that has been culminating in the last 15 years. The legal basis for the adoption of this law is found in the Constitution of Serbia in Article 72, paragraph 5, which provides that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides for a system of protection and promotion of the environment, as well as protection and improvement of the plant and animal world. The production, use and transport of fruit material in the present, valid seed and fruit material law from 1993-1994 were arranged in the same way for seeds and fruit material of forest plants, as well as for seeds and fruit material of fruit and vines, i.e. hops. Of course, there are significant differences with certain similarities, and this is exactly how the regulation is set, and it is an extremely big problem for this area to be implemented in practice. The current law does not prescribe categories of fruit material, which has led to the production of exclusively standard sort material which, in addition, we have witnessed, sold in all possible places, completely inappropriate. The constitutional command of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro established the obligation of Member States to bring new regulations in those areas that the state-level community regulation does not cover. This bill is precisely the result of one such point of view. This proposal has established new entities, given new terms and terms in our legal system, so that legal harmonisation, the terminology, is yet to come. The proposal for a law on fruity fruity materials of fruity fruit, grapevine and hops is in line with both the European Union and the European Union directives. This law regulates the conditions and manner of production, transport and import of fruity fruity fruity materials, vines and hops, recognition of newly created varieties, registration of varieties of fruity fruits, vines and hops and the basis of the register of varieties and the maintenance of varieties entered in the register, as well as the list of recommended varieties and grounds. It is also precisely defined as what is considered fruit material, as well as the meaning of fruit reproductive material, which I find very significant, because if we engage in interpreting something that is very professional we come to a terrible problem. On the basis of the specific conditions of quality and origin, four categories are set out which I will only indicate, because I think it is very important to know what this is about. It is a pre-basic, which serves to produce basic fruit material and has been tested according to the latest international standards for the presence of disease and pests, what we always have a problem later. Then, the basic fruit material that is used to produce certified fruit material, and is produced in mother plants and also under the control of an authorised organisation. Afterwards, certified fruit material intended for the production of standard fruit material; and finally, standard fruit material intended for the production of standard seedlings. By introducing these four categories of fruit material, our legislative regulation is now in line with the European legislation and certification scheme, which gives people, whom I really think exist in our country, who are top experts in this area, to regain the European market and finally enter the European market. We have to admit, although it is not easy for us, because we are all inclined to believe that we are really good in this area, that our fruit material is neither who has sought it so far in these 15 years, nor has it appeared anywhere on the European market. I just heard that one of the speakers mentioned that this law does not foresee the possibility of individuals producing fruit material, which, of course, does not stand. It is clearly defined in the proposal that, apart from legal persons, we can also deal with natural persons, but if they make and sign a contract with some producers of fruit material, which makes a lot of sense, because in practice we have a situation that we can all, and we all know everything; especially if it's a problem in our agriculture, because we are, as I would say, pettyists, we all know everything we do and we all do everything a little bit and that's why we don't have these top results that others achieve. Manufacturers shall be subject to a register with a closer determination by the minister, and it is envisaged that those producers who do not respect the conditions of production are deleted from the register. I also think it's a very significant shift, because we must finally learn to respect the laws, because the laws are not made up of making life difficult, but to make it easier and to bring it into some order that needs to contribute to progress. The law stipulates that only basic, certified and standard fruit material which is entered in the register and which corresponds to the prescribed quality and data contained in the declaration can be placed on the market. It is also precisely determined what and under what conditions it can be imported, which is more than positive, when it comes to our principle that we will believe the word of someone that went well, so we will introduce it, and it will turn out later that we have imported some of the plant diseases that we can't destroy, but it expands, so we will make a darmar in agriculture. It's also precise, just another comment to put on, so let me finish... We have before us a bill that should introduce order in the near future in the area of production of quality fruit material of fruit, vines and hops, which should lead to the return of our producers to the world market. It would also enable easier introduction of foreign high-quality varieties, whose products are far more expensive on the market and whose production is more profitable. The DSS parliamentary group will support the bill, as well as any law that is quality and which contributes to such a significant area as agriculture step forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11079	I give my word to the MP Radisa Ilic, and let the MP Mika Vlaovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11080	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today the draft law on fruity fruity fruity materials, vines and hops. Fruit and vineyarding are the branches of agriculture that are highly developed in Serbia and as such provide a perspective for further development. Large areas of farmland under plantations of fruit and wine vines brought great income to planters, which is because of the quality of fruit material, which due to favourable climate conditions, a lot of our products have been exported and I think of many countries around the world. Take, for example, a raspberries that, unfortunately, loses every year at a price dictated by the world market. What starts each fruit production is a quality fruit material, starts from the very production of fruit material to the sale itself, and many of the failures have been made that have also reflected on the successful raising of plantations and on the achievement of the yield. This law, in addition to domestic varieties, provides for the introduction of foreign varieties into our fruit production through the so-called list of recommended varieties. Such a way of planning in the development of fruit growing can have negative consequences. Uncontrolled imports could also endanger domestic production of fruit material. I don't believe our experts sat with their hands cut, so we've been overcome by foreign institutes so much that our varieties are literally worthless. This list of recommended varieties will rather resemble a list of advertising of individual foreign institutes offering their fruit material. You explained that the law was made under the European Union Directive and some European Economic Community rules since 1968 or 1992. If we are already calling for overcoming in time, then this is obviously an example that we do not have to overwrite everything we are offered. You're applying to a 37-year-old regulation. It is normal for us to also be represented by varieties of fruit and wine varieties, but our climate-geographical conditions are different from exporting countries, so there should be additional selection to obtain a variety, or variety that suits our climate conditions. The classification proposed here is good and necessary if a proper procedure is to obtain quality and uninfected fruit material. Article 9 provides for the strict keeping of records on all stages of the production of fruit material, which is completely understandable, but whether this will be practically feasible given the potential of the people involved in this business and that the fact that there are currently around 1,200 breeders in Serbia who directly produce fruit material is known. Article 19 speaks of the import of fruit material, and it is said that all the accompanying documentation of this fruit material is obtained from the exporting country. Why don't we, as an importing country, exercise control of the health status of imported fruit material? It does not have to be a rule that everything that comes as fruit material from imports is 100 percent correct. Their certificates are theirs and we need in some way to protect our agricultural producers, or fruit trees. Article 35 provides for a way of processing the annual and final results obtained in the field of examination or laboratory. We see that everything is directed by the minister. The methods for processing data are prescribed by the Minister. The expert commission is again educated by the minister. If they are already experts, they are people who work at the institute and why the minister should choose a commission that will evaluate something according to the method prescribed by the minister himself again. Turns out everything has to be based on a dictatorship or a script. Criminal provisions are mainly about sanctioning companies, legal and natural persons. However, large obligations and taxes will impose on many private people as legal persons to knowingly shut down their businesses and to literally continue to do what they had done before as natural persons. He will pay the penalty, which shall be less for them in any case than that which would be for them as a legal person. In Serbia today, there are about 1,200 divers, and a good part of them will no longer be able to work after the law is passed, because they cannot comply with the production obligations imposed. What about the founding fruit material for those legal faces that don't fit into the register? Who will follow a huge amount of fruit material that should eventually be seized or destroyed? It is almost certain that, after the adoption of this law, when many producers no longer produce fruit material, there will be a shortage of fruit material, which automatically leads either to imports of foreign fruit material or to an increase in domestic prices. Anyway, the damage will be suffered by our citizens. In addition to this, it should be noted that the one-year harmonisation deadline is short, given the already started work on the production of new seedlings. For some, it takes several years and will be interesting what it will look like if the owner loses the right to produce fruit material in the meantime. Article 10 mentions the term - owner of the variety. What does that mean? What's the status of a new variety, say, at some institute? Is the Institute the owner of a newly acquired variety or an expert who works at the Institute to obtain that variety? It turns out that possibly the person who appears to be the owner of the variety will be in a position to decide when, where, and at what cost the fruit material will be produced. The ministry should address this problem a little more closely, as the state also invests a lot of funds through its experts in institutes to improve fruit and vineyarding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11081	The word is made by MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11082	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the proposal for a law on fruity fruity material of fruit, grapevine and hops was brought to regulate the situation in terms of fruity fruity material of fruit, grapevine and hops, because lately there has been chaos on that market. In parallel, the import of hops should be arranged, because, as far as I know, many shrubs are being destroyed, domestic hops are not being sold, and brewers are importing hops from abroad and spending their foreign exchanges. I don't want to go into their account, but I think it's the state's interest to sell what's being produced here without importing it and to keep the foreign exchanges. The production of healthy and quality fruit material of fruit, vines and hops should be the starting point of modern fruiting, viticulture and hopmaking. The production, use and transport of fruit material under the applicable Seed Act was made unique to seeds and fruit material of agricultural and forest plants, and this created difficulties in applying the rules, because in addition to the similarities that exist and differences in production. The current law does not prescribe categories as a basic condition for the production of healthy, tested, controlled and freed fruit material from diseases and pests. This has conditioned production only of standard material so far. Four categories of fruit material are introduced under the new law. They were already spoken of, so I'd skip it. The law harmonizes with the law in the European Union and creates a chance for our producers of fruit material for exporting fruit material that we had 15 years ago and which in the future we can have on condition that we fit into the standards and standards that apply in Europe. The possibility of producing fruit material under the applicable law was given to all legal and natural persons, and this conditioned the occurrence of uncontrolled production on a bad basis, with bad kale branches; and it was happening at the market in a 100-type fruit pile, 150 varieties to look for all 150 would exist. I know that one of the producers of the fruit material will judge this story. They're going to feel threatened in some way, what they're going to do, when only companies and entrepreneurs can do it in the future. The law allowed natural persons to produce fruit material on condition that they could make a contract with the entrepreneur and the company. The question has been raised that it will accumulate production. That's right, he'll pick it up. Anyone who works fairly in the Kalemar business and producing fruit material will be able to do so in the future, with a little more expensive investment and ultimately with the same economic gain, as the price of quality seedlings will also be slightly higher. And no one will look into going to that manufacturer's nursery, because it's high quality there and here, too; it means, in all sales places, because it's required to be a fourth-degree agricultural profession. Wherever sales are allowed, they'll be able to buy without trouble and every seedling will have a number and passport. If anything happens, whoever raises the orchard will know who to sue and who's responsible for it. Under the new law, imports of fruit material, which will not have to be specifically examined, is only a condition that from the importing country there is already the approval of their government and the agriculture ministry that these seedlings have passed control and are correct. Now I'm going to step away from the subject. It is mentioned here that the value added tax makes it difficult. I'm a farmer and I agree that it makes it difficult in a certain way. But if it's something everyone has, if it's something they have to do, we have to accept it. This is the first law of this year, the agricultural law. I want to believe that we're going to solve many of the accumulated problems that exist in agriculture. Among other things, much more dangerous are the hidden taxes that agriculture pays. I think the regulation needs to be quick to determine, to check, because artificial fertilizer, chemistry, both in domestic factories and from imports, since the seed material being imported, to determine margins and to determine the credit conditions. You can't give artificial fertilisers in the trade of what kind of merchants and smugglers, to call them that, taking green interest 100% and 70-80% for seven-eight months as long as that cycle of agricultural production is going on. To make it more regrettable, these producers produce raw materials for that factory and for that processor. If that cannot be achieved by law, as soon as possible by a regulation. It will be welcomed by all farmers, and I welcome in the end, this is a good law, there is no amendment on it. No one in the position, no one in the opposition has made any remarks. The DSS Parliament Club will vote for this bill, and I urge you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11083	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask, before concluding a principled search, whether they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? Please, MP Brance Stojanovic, authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11084	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Madam Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, I will say a few words that I have not been able to say, and in some ways the creamworth was given through these discussions which, if I understand correctly, were such that there would be no dilemma in supporting this law in the area of agriculture. I simply have an obligation, and that's what's been discussed here, and I think it's very important, said Mr. Petrovic, to mention the important aspect of this law on the possibility of exporting fruit material. Let me remind you, here through the discussion it has been pointed out several times, not unknown to our producers of fruit material, we exported fruit material in the previous period. Because of the profession and the people who did it successfully in the previous period, I have to point out the firm "Godomin", which was a significant exporter of fruit material, primarily for the Russian market, something small for the Bulgarian market. Therefore, it is not unknown and I think it is important and good that it is pointed out that the adoption of this law creates an opportunity to return to the world market with the export of fruit material, because it can also be a significant income. Mr. Mika Vlaovic also mentioned one thing that is important, and it is related to the import of hops. I have to point out here, because I have information that's true. I come from a orchard area where apple production is dominant. There's also an import apple. We have the information, personally, that some of our apples have been exported. I appeal once again, like Mr. Vlaovic, let us try to place what is produced here, and it is certainly more quality than what is imported. So the data suggests that the deficit was significantly reduced compared to previous years; the policy led by the previous government was such that it was a negative balance. It is commendable to this government that has drastically reduced it, but let what is produced here, and I think the fruit... And we heard from Mr. Vlaovic that he has information that even the hop is imported. It should continue to sell first what is produced here, and only then, eventually, imports what is, based on the data we have, far from the quality of our fruit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11085	Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives who have not used their right to the Rules of Procedure want a word? No, I don't. I'm finishing the initial search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law before I conclude the search in particular, I ask if the representative of the proposing Dr Ivana Dulic - Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, wants to give the final word? No, I don't. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to item two of the agenda: - Proposed Railway Law you have adopted a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill: Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Miroslav Markicevic, Milovan Markovic, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Zoran Krasic, Milan Stevović, Milovanovic, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Vjerica Radeta, Vojislav Milajić, Petar Jojic, Bozidar Koprivica, Zlatan Jovanovic, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović and Milomir Minić, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Transport and Communications Committee and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Transport and Communications, MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic withdrew the amendment to Article 86. It's a bill of law. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic, written down, withdrew the amendment to Article 68, which submitted a new amendment to the same member of the proposal on 14 January 2005. National MP Miroslav Markicevic, in writing, withdrew amendments to Articles 91, 94 and 96, which he submitted on 11 December 2004 and submitted new amendments to the same members of the draft law on 14 January 2005. National MP Milan Markovic, writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 96. The bill, which was submitted on 11 December 2004. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Before we move to the first debate to inform you that representatives are authorised: SRS - Dragoljub Stamenković; DS - Milan Markovic; SPO - Miroslav Markicevic and SPS - Milomir Minić. Does the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, the minister of capital investment, want a word? Yeah. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11086	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you have before you a law on railways. This law has been in preparation for three years and has finally come to order. Many countries in the environment have begun to work together these laws, but have already adopted in their parliaments and in some countries this law has been functioning for three or four years. The European Union wants the system of European railways simply to be put into order by a new law and that European corridors are maintained according to certain EU-specific regulations. You know that our country is located on several very significant corridors, both in road and rail traffic, and that is why Europe's interest is extremely great. We have had a very long period of sanctions and the railways could not invest in infrastructure either, or in certain projects that are very important, and our economy was not in a position to service the railway, which is extremely expensive; in all countries of Europe the railway is on subsidies and the state covers its losses. The state always reflects its state through the railroad. You know that investment in railways and investment in a metal complex has a very high connection, because the rail system also includes various repairs, the entire metal complex that works for the railway at this point. The old railway law has been overcome and we must now catch that last train to the EU so that we can use funds for certain investment in railways. You know that we do not have the funds, but certain transactions are credited on railways in infrastructure and in the rolling stock through various loans from the World Bank, the European Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction, Development and Investments. We're users of these credit assets. We are subject to a condition that we must adopt a new law, adapt legislation, and that is what banks are asking for in order to use these funds. What's new in the law? You know, and you've read the safe law, and I wouldn't want to put too much pressure on you right now, but the new law is to separate the infrastructure from the transport. What does that mean? So far, we have had a massive system that employs 30,000 workers, where the monitoring of certain costs was unique and we haven't had a review. Now Europe through banks and through the World Bank wants to invest in infrastructure, but it does not want to invest in transport on non-profit lines. Now we're trying through this law to separate those two, which is a condition. What's more important? The railroad comes up with a new form of organization. We have stripes that have been unprofitable for years. Now they will have someone to finance them, if the local government is interested in such a thing it will use them, and if it isn't, then the state has to declare itself, and if it doesn't want to use them, the tenders will be called and will be given to private persons for use. It is given to local authorities also that it can affect certain directions that are very important for certain regions, for certain environments, that they can be put into office. Then certain cities can also use parts in their urban transport if they have an interest. In addition, rail infrastructure can be issued to both foreign and domestic users. Simply, we now, under this existing law, collect about one third of the resources from foreign rail users, which is very important, and we need to maintain infrastructure to do so. Thirdly, very important, we had a massive system of Yugoslav railways, which had recently worked, where people from some former republics, who cared about legislation, about certain regulations that are very important for the railway. These Yugoslav railways have come out of all control frameworks; their directors are no longer elected in our institutions, they have neither the board of directors nor the board of directors. It must be interrupted, and through this directorate, it is a new form of organization, we will have insight into the work on the railways and respect for certain regulations on railways and the use of certain means that are necessary. Therefore, these are some of the key things that are very important at this point and it is up to you to adopt this law and to join the European Railways family, to make the Serbian railway an integral part of the European railway. It is very important that Europe is trying to visit us with new corridors, both in road and rail traffic. You know we work intensively on corridors across Romania and Bulgaria, through Croatia, and if we don't finish these jobs we simply won't be in the corridor system. It is very important for Serbia at this point that our corridors, which have brought us a lot of income, are qualified according to European criteria and can be used as Europe requires. In addition, combined transport is increasingly used in Europe. Our railways are not adapted to the combined transport and regulations that he requires, and that is why we are in a situation now to adapt it all and to enter the system of this combined transport of Europe. What does that mean? Quick transition from river to road, from road to rail traffic. We had to do certain corridors, such as Nis-Dimitrovgrad, to expand the tunnels, to adapt to new regulations, and we will have to do the same, and the project, on the Belgrade-Bar track, which is very important to us. We need to get into reconstruction and adapt to new conditions of rejuvenation. I would like, if there are any questions in the debate later, to answer your questions without burdening you, as you have read the law. I think this is one little introduction that's enough for us to begin the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11087	I ask if the representatives of the committees want the word, the Transport and Connection Committee Dragoljub Stamenkovic? No, I don't. President of the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. Before I ask for presidents, just one more addition. The mandated DSS representative is Rade Obradovic, authorised representative of G17 plus Branka Bosnjak, for this point. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Here you go. Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have waited for years for a comprehensive railway law and expected it to be in a function of the development of the railway and the entire economy of Serbia. Unfortunately, here we have, on several occasions, and in this assembly of the National Assembly, the bill, which has been withdrawn from the procedure due to the examination of some other draft laws, and with the adoption of this law has been delayed. Again, unfortunately, I too think that this bill and eventually passed law will not solve problems on the railways, which are huge and whose resolution requires much more work and resources. I will talk about the law in the general lines, and the MPs of the SRS will, in principle and in particular, show what we want, what our solutions are for concrete legal provisions and what we think is best applied when it comes to railways. The history of Serbian railways has been very tumultuous since the very beginning, with many visible and invisible conflicts of internal and external interest. However, the gap between the level of development of our railways and European railways has never been higher than today. As early as the late 1980s, rail experts warned that the railway was in very difficult condition, at the border of normal functioning, and since then, especially in the last ten years, the situation has deteriorated dramatically. Business restrictions on railway development undoubtedly stem from the environment. Unfavourable economic movements and relations between the state and the railways that have long not been adequately regulated have been a major extreme obstacle to railway development, and will remain a restriction unless a radical turn is made on both sides. So far, there have been more attempts at reform through the adoption of different laws and some acts that have been trying to resolve the situation on the railways. Yugoslav railways have on several occasions initiated their market restructuring and reforms that have been refueled due to inadequate environments and the inertness of the environment itself. Reforms from 1990 and 1992, known as the railway transport consolidation programme in SR Serbia, and reforms of the organisation and structure of enterprises have been slowed down and partially implemented, as there was essentially no serious intention of making these changes happen. The 1992 organisation and structure reform, made up of experts from "Softreil", the CIP and ZTP Belgrade Transport Institute, was evident as a continuation of previous attempts and rested on several basic goals and assumptions. First of all, its aim was to turn the railway towards its users and to increase the scope, structure and quality of its services in line with their needs and requirements, to ensure financial consolidation of the companies and business with positive financial results, which required adequate regulation of relations with the state during the adjustment period, to increase the technical and technological efficiency of the railway, to address the problem of extra employees in general, and also to lack of highly educated and specialised personnel at all levels of management and in professional services, as well as a lack of climate for human potential recovery. As you can see, the objectives and problems set in 1992 are now current at the beginning of 2005. The 1991 Law on the Railways of the Republic of Serbia transformed Belgrade from social to state-owned enterprises. During all this time, the company was obliged to carry out all the transports offered, to carry out the announced driving order, to maintain traffic on all railways, etc. On the other hand, the role of the State for the compensation of non-erable transport has not been defined. The state was in control of the railway tariff. The infrastructure allocations did not regularly meet even the minimum maintenance needs. Compared to road traffic, in the past business, the conditions of railway operations were incomparably more difficult, as there were many obstacles. Road companies did not bear the cost of road construction. The railway was involved, depending on the period, from 60 to 100% in the construction of the railways by means of its own means. The maintenance of infrastructure participates in the price of rail transport services with 29.5% and in road transport with 3.5%. Traffic regulation on the road is not paid by road companies, and it is fully carried by railways. Transport prices in road transport are in a much more freer regime than prices in railways, as the railway was always that factor that should have allowed cheaper performance through savings on the price of transport per unit of product. Because of all this, and especially because of the unfavourable environment, unfavourable economic movements and inerts of the system, and especially because of the state's attitude towards the railways, the railway is in a very difficult state, and it needs huge help from the state. In short, I'll explain to you the situation in which the railways are in contact with the adoption of a new railway law. On January 1, 1990, 46,200 workers worked on the railway; 33,471 workers on 31 December 2000, and on the day of 30.11.2004, the number of employees was reduced to 26,320 workers. This means that over the past 14 years, the number of railway employees has been reduced by 57%. The total length of the open rail and passing cell tracks is 3809km, of which 934km is electrified. 5,315 turns, 68 bases, a total length of 40,8 kilometers; 323 tunnels of 130km total. The technological age of the track is 20 years, which means it is necessary to remount around 190 kilometers of track every year. For example. In the period from 1975 to 2000, only 608.2 kilometers were remounted, and it took 4,750 kilometers of track. The degree of depreciation of the tow, locomotives and towed railway cars, or popularly named wagons, is about 45%, and the commercial speed on Serbian railway tracks is the lowest in Europe and is only about 45km per hour. The number of employees per km of the railway line on Serbian railways is, contrary to belief, smaller than on many European railways and is 6.9 workers per mile of track. In Austria, the number 8.3, Slovakia 8.6, in the Netherlands, is 9.3, Belgium 12.1, Bulgaria 8.4. The percentage of employees with high professional equipment is extremely unfavourable and amounts to only about 2%, and they are spread incorrectly. Nepotism, party resemblance, problem solving within a narrow group of people is present; especially a negative selection of personnel, which has been accumulated for years, is particularly present in a more recent period of our history, which is after that five-octobar revolution. Could the Serbian or ZTP Belgrade railways with this condition be successfully restructured without the help of the state and respond to new roles and new tasks, i.e. will they meet the requirements of the new railway law without previous aid from the railways? Just by simply listing these facts, it's clear that the railroad itself won't be able to do it. What are the basic requirements of the new law, i.e. the basic objectives of the new concept of the Bill, as considered by the Proposer. In short, this is to improve the efficiency of the Republika Srpska railway system, which is characterized today by low quality services, high operating costs, huge losses and inadequate organisation of the system, and to allow the integration of Serbian railways into the European rail system In order to overcome the bad situation in this area and to move forward with EU solutions to this bill, trying to create conditions for the introduction of a railway market, i.e. for the emergence of multiple carriers, competition on public railway infrastructure. In the opinion of the promoter, the most significant concept solutions in the draft law are the introduction of more independence in the management of railway undertakings that involve operating according to market principles, enabling multiple railway infrastructure operators to appear, i.e. the creation of conditions for the introduction of competition between carriers, which will increase the quality of transport. Achieving the first phase of separation of ZTP Belgrade to the part responsible for managing railway infrastructure (so infrastructure manager) and the part responsible for transport in passenger and freight transport (transporter). The separation of the State's responsibility to the railway infrastructure manager and to the carrier in the following way - responsibility for the construction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure will be borne by the State, and the reference of the operators to the market conditions of business and their own liability for business will require the abolition of non-performable lines or subsidisation of the same by the state or units of local self-government, if they wish to keep such a line. How do we achieve all this with existing means, if we know that immobilization is over 45%? (President: I apologize, will you use the other ten minutes?) Yes. Furthermore, conditions should be created for the emergence of several railway infrastructure managers. In this way, it would allow local self-government units to retain non-resistable railways by finding a new controller that, by reducing costs and other measures, would allow them to be cost-effective. What money, after this law on the transfer of funds, units of local self-government, which do not have the resources for basic needs, for the original affairs of local self-government, to accomplish this function that the law gives them? Creating conditions to stimulate the development of intermodal or combined traffic that will allow our export economy to access its goods to developed and strong European Union countries. This is already a little funny, both in the European Union and with what export economy currently exists in this country? The creation of conditions for the sale of train routes to railway infrastructure managers and the establishment of a rail transport director, as a special state body, whose task is to monitor and draw up regulations in the area of rail infrastructure, prepare documents in the field of regulatory operations and carry out the same until the time of entry into the European Union, when they will be singled out into a special independent body. The task of the Directorate is also to provide logistical support to the government in decision-making for operations in the area of rail traffic. I note that Serbia is not a member of the European Union and is not obliged at this time to comply with the European Union rules, and thus the European Union Directive in the area of rail transport, as we heard it in the proposal's explanation. Again, I ask you a question, so to all of us today who are going to decide on the fate of this bill, is it Belgrade's ZTP, whether the Serbian railways with such a condition as they can now successfully respond to the requirements put forward and survive in the harsh market in competition with far more successful transporters from Europe without prior assistance from the state, or is it the proposaler's intention to create conditions for the final failure of the Serbian carrier? We'll have infrastructure, but we won't have a carrier, because the depreciation of the tow is, I'm undermining again, over 45%. Everywhere in the world before the reconstruction of the railway state took over all previously created railway debts, it trained technologically, and then placed it on the market. All over Europe, railways were losers, and even today, there is not a single European country where the railway does not enjoy significant subsidies from the state. The draft law on railways did not give a solution to its survival on the market, but merely, roughly, a cosmetically dressed new name, Serbia's railways, and the division of enterprises into infrastructure and exploitation was carried out. Slovenia, Croatia, BiH, Hungary took place in the area, but that is why neither France nor Germany did so. In Hungary, for example, the reconstruction process lasted over 10 years. Five railway laws were amended in Slovenia from 1990 to 2004, until there was a law that was fully in line with the laws of the European Union, whose Slovenia is a member. Before the law was passed, the government of the Republic of Serbia had to bring in a traffic policy, i.e. a national strategy, to announce the importance and role of railways in Serbian society and the Serbian economy. Again, the financial and technological consolidation of the railway is a basic prerequisite for its successful and long-term reconstruction. The French railway, as the most profitable railway in the world, since transport for 48%; the country's donation remains. It is indisputable that railways are necessary for every modern society. Compared to other types of traffic, railways have economic, energy and environmental advantages. The railway is rounding around 13% of Serbia's total capital. True, significant investments in the Serbian railway are predicted in the coming period by the World Bank and its exposures. The condition for this is not only the adoption of laws by European Union directives, because we are not a member of the European Union and for this we are not ready for either financial or organisational, nor technological, but rather to shorten the time of travel of trains through our country, to cut customs and rail formalities at the border, to increase the commercial speeds of transport across our tracks, to introduce several two-wheel lines, etc. But this is not achieved by law, but by improving governance, discipline, and above all by changing the state's attitude towards the railways. The state must fully stand behind the overall depreciation of the railway. The number of employees has been reduced by 57% over the last 14 years, and this is far more than in other public enterprises in Serbia. Further reduction of the number of employees should be sought through the so-called so-called ‘. soft methods, such as the establishment of new enterprises from basic activity by amending the law. As far as the PIO Act is concerned, it may also be necessary to go to the Polish model on the reduction of service for railways, which was supported by the World Bank. The problem of extra employees should not be solved by removing the railway or by leaving the same units to local self-government. By passing the Transfer of Funds Act, units of local self-government, as I have already said, do not have the funds for basic purposes either. After all, behind railway workers who propose some changes is a powerful union that has numerous objections to this bill, and is not playing with someone who can at any time organise unpopular strikes and threaten the regularity of rail traffic and that these strikes are long-running because, believe it or not, they have over a million euros in the strike fund. The reconstruction of the railway must be entered studioly and gradually, respecting tripartite dialogue, government, employer and union, using the experience of countries in the environment with respect to our specificities, and this has not been the case so far, and so far we have had a trade union from the area of negotiation and negotiation. The relationship between the state and the railway should be placed in the real frameworks consisting of realistic analyses of the state's state's ability and obligations in the process of comprehensive transition in the transport sector, revorisation of railway functions and its integration in the transition process into international traffic frameworks and the resolution of railway debt. This third position implies that debt, losses and other liabilities from the past to be released from the state; that railways are provided with a sufficient level of turnover for normal business; that the prices of transport services of all transport services are introduced and the extreme costs are unanimously damaged by certain transport branches to the natural environment: pollution, noise, congestion, land congestion, etc., as is the case, now in Slovenia; that all rail services, based on public service obligations, which are ineligible to the level of costs caused by this type of service; that, in the first five years of application of this law, if accepted, domestic railways are subject to public service obligations, are managed by public rail infrastructure use and that within three months of the adoption of the law, a programme of financial and technological railway consolidation is adopted. The deputy minister told me that it exists in a decision to set up a public enterprise, and it does not harm that it is contained in the law. Without these measures, we will only have the infrastructure built by the funds of creditors that we will repay for a very long time, a large number of fired railway workers, and also unrest, a large number of inert circular routes, because the European Union is only interested in corridor 10, what do they care about directions towards Zajecar, Kursumlia, Kragujevac, etc. We will have completely destroyed and calculated tow, with symbolic fees for using public railway infrastructure, which will not be enough to pay even the interest on the basis of the loans used for the construction of that infrastructure and, of course, there will be no more domestic carriers. What loans to take, when she took 300 million loans from Delta and Exim Bank for November's pay alone. So there's no payout. If the aim of this law is to help the railways, it should have been seen on that side and previously brought about those conditions and those opportunities that I was talking about so far. We fear that the adoption of this law will result in adverse consequences and as members and MPs of the SRS, we warn both the government and the Serbian public of the possible adverse consequences of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11089	Thank you. I owe one notice to the members of the Transport and Connection Committee: the session of the Transport and Communications Committee will be held today, on 18 January 2005 starting at 14.15 p.m., hall on the fifth floor. It is on the agenda to consider the draft law on the termination of the Law establishing a public air transport undertaking. So, please all members, at 14.15 p.m., the fifth floor hall. I'm asking, do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Mr Markicevic, and there is Velimir Stanojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11090	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we have before us a law on railways that regulates the existence, status and business of one of the most important systems in each country, therefore, of railways and also of our country. The railway system is of paramount importance in many countries, and many industries are tied to this system where many people work. In our country, it is estimated, which indirectly provides for about 150,000 people by cooperating with the railway. Of course the railroad in every country is part of national pride. In order to truly be proud of our railways, we need major reforms and modernisation, all in line with European Union regulations to make our railways a part of the European Railways family. The real start of reforms and the recovery of our railways begins with the adoption of the railway law. It creates the basics that our railways are transformed into an efficient system that will be able to meet the challenges of the 21st century and the geographical position of our country itself, that is, the already existing infrastructure owned by our railways. The Law on Railways practically regulates the real situation in which our railway operates after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitutional Charter. According to these acts, traffic has ceased to be in the jurisdiction of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. The draft law on railways that lies before us today is a good law, and a small number of amendments have been submitted to it. It is clear that the adoption of the railway law will not solve all problems and the difficult situation in which our railways are located, but it certainly provides a good basis for the adoption of all legal and sublegal acts that will regulate each segment in a large system of Serbian railways. I urge all MPs to vote in favour of this law. The SPO parliamentary group – the NS will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11091	The word is from MP Milomir Minic, the mandated representative of the SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11092	Dear Members of Parliament, Ministers, there is a very good law on railways before us; it is systemically character and operationalises the European Union directive, i.e. The European Economic Community since 1991 on railway development in Europe. However, our law that we are adopting today, and which will be voted by the SPS, only brings in some newspapers, one dimension that is regulated by law, but there is no future of railways until all the principles required by this Directive of the European Union are taken into account. Otherwise, it has been changed several times over the past ten years, 1995 and 1997, and adapted, i.e. it envisioned some state support for the railway to survive on the European market. Otherwise, the Serbian railway has a future. However, its economic future depends on the use of these European corridors passing through our country, which are the essential criteria behind the European Corps in the development of a rail Europe. First of all, the biggest change in this law is the separation of infrastructure from transport. The second principle is free access to national corridors by international transport organisations. The third principle is compensation for the use of infrastructure in each country and the fourth principle, which has been applied in all countries, is consolidation, debt reduction and railway development. Only if we're looking at this whole thing is this law making sense. He's very positive when it comes to infrastructure itself. The moment we adopt this law and the state's obligations as owner of railway companies, infrastructure, will be seen as being on the palm of Serbia's hand to allocate very little funds as a railway owner. Normally, given our economic situation, it will not be easy to realise, but by this law in a very clear way, as the minister said, the state takes responsibility for all the costs of the development of traffic infrastructure, its new investment. Serbia has 3,800km of track, and in order for them to be in driving condition, huge funds are needed. In the case of infrastructure, when it comes to this law, the obligation to pay compensation for the use of infrastructure is determined, which is one really business philosophy, that those who use railways pay compensation as they do on the roads. But what's the problem? When we look at Europe, they declared it in 1991, but only a few countries introduced that obligation to pay for infrastructure fees. There are even three different views on how to pay these infrastructure costs, because if we did now, and this law points to that... I think our government will be wise and cautious, that it will not burden railway-transport companies to pay for the use of infrastructure, because when it would be considered to pay marginal costs, maintenance costs and return of capital, therefore, businesses would not be able to operate. I have this data from countries that pay, it's only three or four, so I mean countries in Europe. I have proposed an amendment, and it is Serbia's obligation to provide access; Europe is very cautious, it is declaring, and it is very gradually introducing these obligations, and I think that in this part of us, we need to stick to these transitional periods as quickly as possible to join the European Union. So three countries have introduced this, and the other countries are making an appropriate programme. Those who are close to us, I can take for example Greece, think they're going with one zero point, or the Spanish do so, so the goods will be on the rails at all. So it's very important that the law program these standards that are very important that the railway can be one commercial system. What does European experience say? The railway will always remain owned by the state, so I think this law introduces such obligations to the state that we have to have one program so that it can be achieved by the end. That's when it comes to infrastructure. Otherwise, as far as privatisation is concerned, only three railways in the world are privatized. The Japanese are very successful, we should not compare, the English have missed, and the Germans are preparing for some privatisation. So, the railway will remain state-owned for a long time and should lead such a policy and such investment that it becomes a successful commercial society. The second dimension that separates here, therefore, that only the company becomes very responsible for economic business, which is for passenger and goods traffic. I am convinced, I have worked there for a long time, that our railway has a good future, because today ZTP Belgrade is the only company of all European railways that has more goods for transport than it has technical means to achieve that transport. When you look at the parameters of how many railways are involved in the transport of goods on the transport market in Europe, it is 17% in Europe and about 30% in Europe. It comes from two factors, from the character of our economy that is import-dependent, from mass burdens and from a major transit. These are truly exceptional odds that Serbia must take advantage of. We will provide for the responsibility of the railway to become a commercial enterprise, but it has nothing to do with it. Today, the railway has only 500 passenger cars and there is no way that it can become a successful commercial enterprise without the restoration of the fleet, and it has a potential market for passengers, for goods, within the country and for transit. The data I watched last year show that there has been an extraordinary growth in transit across our country, which allows for a easier fight, if our government is as successful as the minister said, in order to fight for these Serbian development corridors to really benefit our economy and the future of the railway. That is why the first condition for this law to come to life, not to have good norms and bad practice, is that our government, which I have proposed as the second amendment, is very urgent to do a programme of financial consolidation of railways at the beginning of the year. Otherwise, this law could have been passed immediately after normalising our relations with European and world organisations. Without that program, there's no way. How were European countries doing? When we look at our railway business from last year, the railway made its own income of 34% and 63% was financed by the state. In a similar situation 15 years ago, there were railways from some European countries and governments took over all these debts. I claim here very responsibly that our railways can be trained to become a commercial and successful company if the government takes over these debts, and so have many European railways. Serbia will get a good law by adopting this law. However, I would like to say a few words about what Serbia does not have. Today Serbia has no traffic policy, no development strategy in the development of traffic in this country. He's got potential projects and he's got a very weak realization. DOS missed one big chance to continue those projects that defend Corridor 10 as a major development chance for Serbia when it comes to rail development, but certainly also about road corridors. What is very positive about Serbia's development today? Serbia has exceptional traffic corridors and has enough railways. Our big problem is that they're in very bad shape. Our country passes 1,000 kilometers of corridor 10, meaning the most vital transport route, which economically and traffic must be valorized. When looking at the development of the railway in Serbia, it is characteristic that only rail routes are made at the priority of the north-South and that the east-west directions are missing. Many have criticised us, but only a small piece of 68km of Valjevo-Loznica rail is missing on the rail of the transport corridor for goods traffic 10 Trst-Ljubljana-Sarajevo-Tuzla-Serbia. Instead of being continued, it was interrupted. For the electrification of the Požega-Cacchak railway, which is now being done, Kraljevo, Lapovo and Kruševac, Serbia should invest $100m, and the annual oil savings in the central part of Serbia is minimum between $15m and $20m. I think we should all support the government to make a very bold use of those developmental chances. They're extraordinary. The fate of Serbian railways has always been decided in this parliament. A small principality of Serbia also performed Serbia's first industrial modernisation by modernising the railway. When you look at the modernity of technology used today on the railways, I argue that modernising Serbian railways can be a good way to modernise a part of our standing industry. I am convinced that the railway in Serbia as it is today can attract a billion dollars in the next five years. He must have one really brave support and support for parliament. In 1991, this parliament adopted a programme -- Serbia's new railway, and that there were no sanctions, and that largely all the effects that the railways can achieve would be valorised. I don't want to criticize much. It's easy to get credit from international banks to buy equipment that maintains railways, and it's no business and commercial craftsmanship. The problem is are you able when Serbia invests in the railways that part of these products makes "14 October". When you remount a locomotive in one of our neighbouring republics and pay 40 to 50 million dollars, you're in charge of the World Bank, are you able to remain a powerful MIN when you're running a remounted locomotive, which can continue to maintain a permanent locomotive in our country. I think one such approach to major investment in railways and industrial cooperation with foreign companies is lacking in Serbia. For a long time, these development projects unfairly carried a negative political color in changing government in this country. The new government, this one right now, is very resentful of some other things, has begun to take off that political color and access their realization. This law introduces regional traffic and local traffic. In order for this legal norm to come into life, in Serbia, 100 electric trains are needed in these profitable relations, and I think that our people on the railway are driving very modest wagons. One electric train costs 2m euros. It can be made by our industry. 15 years ago, Simmons and Gossa built a modern electric train. Large modernisations have been carried out in Europe for the last 15 years; Spain has a super-average transport and has become a European producer of modern railway equipment; then, the Czech Republic and Poland. Serbia, if it wants to take advantage of all these chances, has to invest, but it has to extract all these effects. With the largest railway equipment manufacturers, industrial cooperation can be made. We made those contracts. Our industry can accept this new modern technology. I'm only talking about one little illustration, because from the other two, this one's showing up to have some kind of project. I think the railroad modernisation program could be that. We're going to discuss the Privatisation Act these days, and we're going to take off the debts of large metal complexes. We need to connect, so I say that today Serbia does not have a development project, regardless of who is in power, investment in railways and, as a result, what metal systems will remain when Serbia is so committed and invested. We just tried the 200km car, produced by Gosa, with the largest European manufacturers Jack Alsto, famous Valdin and not to order. I think that principle of industrial cooperation in this country should be developed. It's easy to buy. We're in such a place that we can make good moves, and that's why these development projects that we speak of deserve support. I'm done with another one. Why I mention as an illustration of the lack of a strategy not to collect car parking on Belgrade streets to solve traffic in Belgrade, but to end the Belgrade railway knot. A billion dollars has been invested in Belgrade's railway node. Beneath this city, there is a wealth of railway equipment, which can significantly solve the problem of traffic in Belgrade, to free the Sava amphitheater. There is no big city in Europe that has two and a half million inhabitants and has so much free space for investment. I think they'll speak here from fellow MPs who are competent. Today, the country, along the market, is the main resource of development in large metropolises. The railway node could end within three to five years and valorise one investment -- Belgrade at Sava. It wasn't just us who came up with it. In 1904, monarchs tried to design a new railway station in the then modernised construction of railways in Prokop, as Belgrade pressured itself to go to the shores of its rivers. So, this law is very difficult, it brings huge obligations to the state, but I think it's a great opportunity for our railroad and for its future. That's why we're voting for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11093	Since it's four minutes to 1400 hours, I suggest we proceed at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11094	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue today's work with a principled review of the 2nd item of the agenda - a draft law on railways. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that enough MPs are present to continue our work. Now I ask if any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want the word? Here you go, Mrs. Branka Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11095	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, representatives of the ministry, we have before us the railway law, which has been in the Assembly for several months awaiting today's procedure. I want to point out right away that the G17 plus party is aware that the adoption of this law is necessary, that it must be adopted as soon as possible and that its application should begin as soon as possible, and that is why, at the beginning, I want all MPs to call on them to vote and support this law. The state of rail in our country doesn't have to talk much. Passengers are getting smaller, businesses are increasingly opting for some alternative ones, and more expensive types of transportation of their goods, and therefore our railways are characterised by low quality services, high costs, great losses and bad system organisation. What's new about proposing this law? Pre-conditions for the development of new, modern, efficient and profitable railways are provided, investment preconditions are created, first on railway infrastructure, then in the area of transport services, resulting in an increasing number of participants and users of railway services, which creates sound competition, increases quality and reduces costs. In order to develop as efficiently as possible, the railway system will be organised in two parts. The first part is the part that develops, builds and manages railway infrastructure, and the second part is the part that organizes the transport of passengers and goods. The financing of the new rail transport system will be three ways. The first is from the Republic of Serbia's budget to develop and maintain public railway infrastructure and public transport. Another way of funding is from the funds of local self-government that has some special interest in maintaining some local railways, local routes, whether they are profitable, and sometimes they are not. Of course, the third source of investment is future interested railway operators and users. What else is new about this law? It stimulates the development of intermodal traffic. Since modern modes of transport respect the laws of economicity and efficiency, combined transport models are increasingly used, and road goods trucks reach the port, ferrys travel from port to port, and then these same trucks load on special wagons, travel by rail, and then by road to their destination. Of course, there's no need for any containers, overloaders, and anything that brings a waste of time and money. Our problem is that our railroad doesn't have the proper infrastructure for that. Bridges and tunnels need to be reconstructed to enable their gauges to transport loads of increased dimensions. European and world financial funds are available to our country for this kind of work. The prerequisite is, of course, one law guaranteeing that the appropriations will be spent for the intended purpose. This law provides for it. With financial incentives, Europe wants to integrate us as highly as possible into Europe's rail system. We need to understand for ourselves that the right precondition for this law is. I therefore, on behalf of the G17 Plus Party, call on all MPs to support this law, because no one has the right to do their political calculations keeping citizens on trains moving at speeds that are far above and beyond the 19th century, keeping them in unheated and insecure wagons, and with great certainty passengers, the goods will be hours late.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11096	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Yes, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11097	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Railways, which is before the National Assembly, belongs to a group of those laws that, in the almost unchanged text, have been prepared by the previous government. He first came to congregation procedure in March 2002, then after the adoption of the Constitutional Charter he suffered changes in his content and in this final version he received some closer clarifications, but essentially he was not changed. So, this law belongs to a group of reform laws that bring us closer to EU standards; it is a law that in this sense creates preconditions for us to act in this sector in the rail sector according to what Europe expects of us. Regardless of the fact that it is pointed out here that the EU does not impose these standards or at least does not require it as solutions, it is good that this law is finally in the process and that it will indeed create assumptions that our railways are becoming more efficient, that costs are reduced, that employees in this sector of public affairs get better conditions for work, that they have increased motivation to work and carry out such an important work. On the other hand, it is good to move forward in this segment of public affairs through integration with the European market for transport of goods and passengers in rail transport and finally integration of the Serbian railway into the EU rail system. What has been pointed out here several times and what is stated in the reasoning of the law is a concept that provides competition directly in this part which is separate, which is also a positive side of the law, which is the opening of the possibility that other companies and other legal entities, other than the public undertaking "Serb Railway", established by the government's decision, which awaits the entry into force of this law as explained, is a fundamental change compared to the existing situation. And if that's the case, it's the government's responsibility, the department's resolution. Today we heard an argument here that doesn't guarantee that it will. So in one part of the law, Article 26 states that everyone will pay compensation for using the infrastructure on equal terms. We have an amendment, which was accepted by the Transport Committee, that the public railway company of Serbia will be released from the obligation to pay compensation for the use of infrastructure. It can't stand in the law for many reasons. It can't, because it puts all the participants who want to perform this action on the one hand. On the other hand, it is unacceptable for European standards for a public company to be freed from compensation payments, completely without any justification. On the other hand, the law leaves the possibility for the government of the Republic of Serbia to make it easier for the public undertaking "Serb Railways" in this way, and it does not have to be an integral part of this law, as it directly favours one of the participants in carrying goods and passengers. I believe that it invalidates the quality of the laws stemming from that provision that the activity of infrastructure management and the activity of carrying out the transport of goods and passengers is separated and that competition and the possibility of other participants, under the same conditions, are being created to carry out this activity. I'd like to point to another side of the law in the part where it's about inspection and criminal provisions related to inspection. I got an answer from the Traffic Committee that there's no collapsing in that part of the Law with the Law on Safety in Railway Traffic. If so, and if Articles 123, 128 and 129. The safety law in rail traffic doesn't regulate this matter, the law doesn't have that kind of scarcity, but it wouldn't be good if the essential provisions of this law were found in two different places treated in different ways. It's something that gives rise to the need for the Railway Safety Act to be purified, to be fully in line with the railway law, and I guess that's something that the Ministry has to resolve. I appreciate the explanation that this has been taken into account and that there is no cohesion in this regard. Serbia's railway union sent a letter to the Assembly's Transport Committee informing us that an agreement had been reached at the time of the 11-day strike at the ZTP "Belgrade" in 2002, and this entered into a protocol drawn up with the government and the director of the ZTP and representatives of the union, that the government would implement a programme of technological and technical restructuring and business-financial consolidation, technical and business-financial recovery of the public enterprise. The request states that the Assembly accepts this stance to enter into the law in Article 93, through an amendment submitted by MP Minic. I find it really unnecessary and inappropriate to oblige the government to work in this way, to do what it normally is its business, to commit that only in this public enterprise will the business-financial consolidation program, when that is the government's obligation. It has committed itself to this through the promotion of its economic programme for 2005 in the adoption of the Budget Law. I express my reservations and doubt that this government and this ministry, with these capacities and what they've shown for the past year, will be able to do. It is not the essence of whether it will become an integral part of the law, whether the Assembly will in this way commit the Government and have one position in a member of the law for the government to do so in three months, without any intended consequences or any other provisions on how it should be done. That's why I'm saying, I'm going to launch an initiative at the Assembly's Transport Committee to deliver my business-financial consolidation programme to the government of the Committee within a reasonable period of time for the Serbian railway company's public consolidation. It is the same, and that is what the government has committed itself to through its economic policy and through the Budget Law, and other public enterprises, where restructuring has not even begun, something that is the key obligation of this government, if it really wants to implement reforms. What was done at the Public Enterprise ZTP "Belgrade", whose legal follower will be the public undertaking "Serb Railway", is that the attempts to restructure that started in the previous years have been completely halted. The number of employees in ZTP "Belgrade" decreased in 2002 and 2003 from 31,500 to 27,500, and that is what it cares about. It is not the only criterion for measuring the process of restructuring the public enterprise, but it is one of the criteria. Nothing else has been done, nothing systemically done, no program done. It's no excuse to wait for the railroad law, and even in previous legal acts, it doesn't say it can't be done. In this sense, this law does not provide for anything special, it provides broader opportunities for more modern, more modern and more efficient business, but remains a commitment at the government, the ministry, to enter more courageously, as was the case in the context of the economic programme, that it will strongly enter into the programme of restructuring of public enterprises, and one of the important public enterprises of "The Railway of Serbia". What has been done in terms of modernisation and reconstruction of railway infrastructure in the previous period, since the government was formed, is merely the realization of that programme that was made up in the previous period. The dynamics that it had done in the previous two years with the previous government were not retained, nothing was done to increase the dynamics of the necessary reconstruction of railway infrastructure until equipment. Yes, the minister of capital investment, as new in the reconstruction and reconstruction programme of railway infrastructure, provided for reconstruction of the railway station, by accident, in Cačka, but well, it must start from somewhere. It's not a criticism, but it's what's the fact that it was something new in the 2004 programme. It would be good to find the funds, to continue to rebuild the infrastructure on which MP Minić, who has been chairman of the Management Board of the ZTP, spoke in a very fairy-tale manner here. He mentioned a small line of Valjevo-Loznica, whose construction began in 1991 in an optimistic way... (President: I apologize, Mr. Markovic, will you use the other ten minutes? Yes. What was done by 2000? That we don't speak in some numbers, but 10% of those investments are complete, the rails that are really 68 kilometers long, there are 10 kilometers of tunnels, there are 20 tunnels on that track. The wagons were brought on that track, to the tracks, tracks set at 20km from Valjev, there were made affirmative promotions. That car stood until after 2000, served to show how part of the Valjevo-Loznica railway was done. I repeat, only 10% of the investments, worth $280m in 1991, have been completed. I'm leaving myself the right to make a mistake in some number, but that's that order of size. Then it was said that in 2000, DOS left the possibility that such an important investment and public works could continue, and that it was a great shame for the "Serb Railways", for the whole region that had the opportunity to get a modern traffic station. If it was a dynamic to build one rail, then we would have finished that railroad in about 80-90 years. I think it's one defeating fact and it shouldn't look like rebuilding railway infrastructure today in Serbia. On the other hand, there has been talk here about how it is necessary to train industrial capacities in Serbia to build the necessary equipment and reconstruct Serbia's railways, that this is about the policy that the SPS led in the last decade and only if it hadn't been, it was also said here, sanctions and only that there were no problems in the economy and only that there was no money missing – everything would have been fine. It's just that these are the consequences of such a policy, and I'm afraid that even today when we have opportunities and different thinking about public systems, there is not enough determination, there is not enough responsibility in the government that today assumes the responsibility of the government in Serbia to go one decisive way into reforms, when we are already on this topic, in restructuring public enterprises, and one of them, very important, is the JP "The Railway of Serbia". I am afraid that this law will remain a reform law adopted and adopted by the Assembly as a document that opened up opportunities, and indeed opens up great opportunities for us to get close to the European Union in this domain in the public affairs sector, and that this government will not find a way (and has not proven by its work that it will find ways) to actually implement projects that are listed as a possibility in the concept of this law. Therefore, it is not enough that we have only quality laws here, it is enough that we have and that Serbia has a quality government, better than this government, more efficient and more determined, which will make quality decisions. It is not only a matter of the quality of the decision whether you will make it, but also when you will make it and how you will realize it. This is just one segment when you want to do a job, most often it's not the only obstacle you need to realize. Other resources are needed and, of course, those who take responsibility need to have more determination. Here in the law, in many provisions, really the government takes on great obligations, but I would say that when it's seen as a possibility for a government that isn't effective enough, it's just some possibilities, some chances for it. I didn't realize from the government's work so far that she used that chance and that she went over it. We need a government that will demand to go beyond these odds, beyond those possibilities, and not constantly going below the possibilities of what is formulated or what is within the framework of the laws that we have. So it's nice to say at the end of the regular session in 2004 that we passed 88 laws, but it's also nice to say that this is the 63rd law prepared by the previous government. Will this legislative authority, this congregation, stop when these good laws disappear, left by the previous government in the congregation procedure? I wish I didn't, but there's no guarantee, when the government's work so far and its ministries is looked at, that's how it's gonna be. So it is good to adopt European and pro-European laws, but to really be a real basis for better quality work and to finally start doing something far more concrete than what are only legal bases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11098	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Miniæ. In the meantime, let me let you know now and officially about the way I'm going to run this session. So, there will be no session Thursday and Friday this week, and next Thursday and Friday there will be no session. This is important for all of us to have precise facts, as it is important that we not all deceive the public, but that we know; therefore, in this meeting, it has never happened that any draft law prepared by the previous government was put on the agenda, so it has not happened now. Of course, many parts of the law are identical to what international agencies, which have helped both the previous and current government, have otherwise prepared, and I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mini will.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11099	I'm sorry, I didn't hear the best of my colleague Markovic, but I know something he said was a little bit done around the Valjevo-Loznica railroad. I really think that it is very small compared to that transport corridor 10, so that Serbia will take advantage of its chance by this passenger corridor that goes from Zagreb to Belgrade and from Novi Sad to Belgrade. Otherwise, I don't think Serbia will stay at its 120km speed on corridor 10, but will go to high speeds. If a Valjevo-Losnica rail is made, there is a chance of an exceptional transit on corridor 10. Now, the official document of what was done on the Valjevo-Losnica railway. The value of the investment is 210m euros, 68km is the length, there are five tunnels that are between 1,500m and twokm long, that is a heavy track. Our tactics of realising that railroad were to dig up the tunnels first, we called it "the line of trust" and to connect with the Republic of Serbia and the Tuzlan swimming pool and that in the future it could receive goods transport across our country. That's the government we had in 2000. Time did not allow me to say that the sources of financing for that railroad were intended for oil. If we talk about Europe, Europe burdens oil through external costs, because Serbia has no oil and oil is a major resource that is least used, and in road traffic it is harmful, and electricity is stimulated. That's why I used this program that now the government continues to implement and to save in Šumadia from Kruševec, Valev, Lapov and Cačka. So it was done, and when DOS came, to break up some major criticism now, DOS stopped it. They left it behind and drove the performers away, and they had good projects and the construction was intense, they had international support. I know that the railroad, and I don't know if the minister is going to talk about it, has an offer to implement this project today. Today for investment in Europe you have a lot of money and you need to ensure investment security, freedom of transfer, why the West is interested in funding our infrastructure, and only two of them are interested: to cross Serbia in 24 hours and sell their equipment here. When the state makes guarantees, it's a safe placement of capital. So it would be good if this government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Go on with that railroad. It will benefit us, and when we listen to debates in our public, with the end of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, there are no dangerous substances across Belgrade, with the end of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, the Belgrade-Bar railway is used maximum. [[President: There is no more time for replicas.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11100	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, replica? Replication to my presentation? I didn't expose, I'm sorry, I just informed you about the fact session. When the president or president wants to expose something, he goes out for a pay phone and asks someone to replace it. Therefore, I only informed of the course of this session and of the course and results of the previous session. Be kind, I won't give you the right to a replica, anyway, because I have nothing to do with it. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is Mr. Milovan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising that you've injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 100. In fact, you gave yourself the right to say, too, that I was here telling the truth. You know how much more specific that word means in our language, but I won't say it, I'll leave it to you. On the other hand, you took the right as president of the Serbian Parliament to defend the government, which you cannot defend. I hope someone from the government comes out to thank you for that. It is truly inappropriate for the President of the Assembly to thus interpret the words of the MP, and if you wanted to give me an argument that what I was saying was not entirely true, you had to use far more precise data than what you brought here. You are the chairman of this house and I really expected you to have more understanding for the debate that is being held here in such an important procedure. I understood Mr Minic that every government is good in which he is, that is, in which the SPS is Slobodan Milosevic. It is not good for this country if it stays that way and it is obvious that the government in which the SPS is Slobodan Milosevic is not a good government for Serbia and will never be. This nation, this country today in transition, needs a better government in reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11102	The word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11103	Mr. Markovic, this is a replica of your exposure to the Rules of Procedure. I didn't mention you or your exposure at all, and at least I was defending the government, but I was doing what my job was, and I was presenting the exact data on the work of the Assembly. If you want extras, although I've been keeping all the MPs in the loop every three months, I can do it one more time. So, taking office as president, I asked all the motions in writing to declare their proposals. Some of the proposal has been returned to the procedure, and some have not declared themselves to the proposals found in the procedure. I asked some of them, it's a whole series of promoters, you know, those who publicly deceive and say they've collected 400 or 700,000 signatures, although the president of the Assembly in the previous session, Ms. Micicic, has timely delivered to them that they should complete the list or initiate a new procedure, or to remove the double signatures and false data contained in these proposals. There were several such suggestions. Some of the parties who were proposing have returned part of the proposal, and even some have asked for it to come in and be followed by an emergency procedure. The Serbian government is all the proposals that were, of course, withdrawn from the procedure and I just gave the exact information. As for that, therefore, no proposal by any previous government has been in the process since the moment we started adopting the laws, and that's a fact. She doesn't slow down at all what you said, she talks about what the congregation does. The assembly passed a huge number of laws, mostly in history, and I congratulated each and every one of you individually on that. I think that's just fine. It is not the defence of this government or any other, it is a prerequisite for this country to go better, with any government, and the parliament government is choosing and will not praise the government, so it has never done so. Also, I'm not going to allow the release of incorrect data. One of the exact figures is that for the needs of the previous government, this government, the previous federal government, this Council of Ministers, a large number of professional organisations, NGOs and international organisations have prepared the text of the laws. I understand that one MP is uninformed, I understand that you may have been uninformed, but fortunately and the law that we are now talking about and a whole series of laws whose basis is the same, and when it was given by one government or another, it speaks about the basic text of the law; of course, we discussed it three months ago, because the laws do not have the authority, because then the authors of these laws would be signed under them, but they have built into standards and legal norms and, as a rule, in most parts are the same. It is my duty to discuss such data, and the public is confused, to give the exact data, among other things, to defend not the Government, but to you, Mr Markovic, who was in the assembly of the Assembly, who in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism passed the most laws, which is a prerequisite, or paraphrasing you, should only have passed laws, so the government would do something, but, as for spite, very laws were not passed in sufficient numbers by those who fear the law. I hope that all of us here advocate that the laws are being implemented, not afraid of them, and that's why we sit here on Mondays, and on Tuesdays and Saturdays, to create as many preconditions, whatever government is in power as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11104	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? Replica, Mr. Miniæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11105	My fellow MPs, it's a very important law on the agenda, and I've been very careful today to say that I would not open other political issues that could be opened for such laws. A colleague Markovic mixed up a few things. First, he informs me, and all of you, what I think of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, and that is not at all on the agenda or I pleaded. Secondly, he says that every government I'm in suits me, where I'd be. So today is not on the agenda, as far as I'm aware, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, but is on the railway law agenda, where my colleague Markovic and I as MPs are particularly interested in the Valjevo-Loznica railway line. A government working on that railroad can be a good government and will have our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11106	Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? No, I don't. Mr. Markovic, do you want a word or not? National MP Meho Omerovic is the first in a row to be reported. Is he here? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic. I'm sorry, Mr. Markovic, while you explain yourself with the President of the Assembly, we have to work on this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11107	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law from an area which we can call a treasure disastrous. It is not the proposing's contention that this law is in line with European principles, but let's go back to how it came about and how this whole procedure has been going on and how long it has lasted. The first visit of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development mission was made on 20 March 2001 when an arrangement was agreed with the ZTP "Belgrade" on the preparation of the project. The mission was also visited by the Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications, when it was agreed to work in parallel with the preparation of the documentation and to prepare a new railway law. I repeat, it's March 20, 2001. After this visit, the draft railway law was prepared, and the latest version was delivered to the marked bank prior to the loan negotiations, which was conducted from 21 to 24.9.2011 in London. During the negotiations in London, as one of the conditions of the loan's operationality, the obligation was found to enter the new railway law into the assembly procedure. The loan agreement signed on 25.10.2001, in Article 6, provides for the contract to enter into force within 90 days of the date of signature with the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the obligation to put a new railway law in the procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia until 24.1.2002. It's been three years, now in 2005, and since then, 90 days have lasted three years. So much for us, our up-to-dateness, our expeditionivity, our engagement and our desire to adapt to European norms and to enter and join the European Union. The Serbian government passed the bill at a session on 15 March 2002. Let's go back to what about our railroad looked like and what it looks like today, for example, in the space I come from, which is northern Banat. There it was released in traffic on 15 November 1857 in the first rank of Segedin-Kikinda-Temisvar, part of the Vienna-Budapest-Kikinda-Temisvar-Orsha railway, which was built for a speed of 120km per hour. Let me explain, in 1857, a telegraph was introduced on that track as a traffic regulation arrangement for the first time in the world. Then, in 1857, the railway was designed by 120km per hour, and today, in 2005, in northern Banat the speed of trains on the tracks is 30km per hour. It could all look like one Western film, just missing Indians running along the train and getting a complete tragic picture. Maybe that's good, summer isn't so bad, these youngsters can, while there were wells along the track, come out and get drunk and get on that train that keeps "running" towards Belgrade. Nothing has fundamentally changed in these decades, except that some rails were brought twice along the track, to show the great desire of the state to revitalise one such railroad. They were brought in 1988, stood for a few months and then someone came, picked them up, probably counting that there was a railroad in Serbia where trains go even slower than 30km an hour. It all happened again in 1992, and the tracks were also brought in, and then magically taken away again. Today, 800,000 people living in Banat, from Kikinda to Pancheva, pass only one train and travels four hours and 20 minutes 139 kilometers. If you leave on time, in the morning, you can reach Belgrade by nightfall. Only two trains pass for Zrenjanin, which is only 55km away from Kikinda, and they pass in two hours. There's an average speed even below 30 kilometers per hour. Let's not talk about the age of a shinobus that's over 50 years old. Not to mention the tunnels, they said they needed tunnels for some railways through Banat, and usually there are no tunnels, no mountains, no big rivers, no bridges, but we welcomed, probably consciously or unconsciously, that some people at times when they could decide make such disastrous decisions. It's all part of a story about Serbia's high-speed railways. However, let us go back to how this law is written and what is the essence of such a principle law, which is more a composition of some definitions than it essentially has a life of its own. His life will only be given by a sublegal act and something mentioned in each other's article, that the minister or government will more closely determine certificates, methodology, issue permits, solve which railways are freeways, regional, international. What, then, we as the Assembly here represent when we bring only one law with definitions, and everything that is essential and which can lead to abuse and an unfair and unfair relationship when it comes to any part of Serbia's territory, we leave again to the executive authority. In this regard, perhaps we should talk sometime and think about taking the Serbian Parliament's responsibility to monitor how these sublaws are being passed and that it has a kind of control role to monitor how this law will essentially be implemented. Let's start in some order, when it comes to Article 3, which just points to 25 points and 25 definitions, what's the order of driving and what's the rest of the stuff in railway terminology. Perhaps another definition was forgotten, after the 18th point, a new point could come -- an inter-legal rail border zone, which is interesting for this law, which claims to refer to international traffic, to take some responsibilities, the principles of international traffic. Very little is given when it comes to international traffic, border border border zones, and everything else that could be packaged into one story to show how interested we are that just some service routes or spring crossings when it comes to international traffic mean a lot to us. Article 4 – it is interesting that Article 2 excludes point 1. In Article 4, in paragraph 1, if the railway infrastructure includes a rail belt, we need to know that there are many depots that are next to the railway or the station track, and we here want to turn off the colleries, which can ultimately be acceptable, but the collage workshop is automatically inserted into paragraph 1. That should have been taken care of. I will repeat - if the railway infrastructure includes a rail belt, what about deposits and facilities that are completely excluded for item 2 because it reads: "The railway infrastructure does not include vehicles maintenance facilities with corresponding tracks and railway depots". That may be a failure, but it doesn't matter, we're moving on to article 6 that shows the adoption of the definition in this law. This is where the tracks are categorized, so we have a master's, regional, local railroad. It is very important that the status of the highway railways has all international railways. In point 1) – highway lines, of importance for international traffic. We can't let an international railroad be a freeway. It's unacceptable exactly from the aspect I was talking about when it comes to this international traffic that we need to be first. "The government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Railway Directorate, adopts an act on the categorisation of railway lines. "There I return to the story that the railways in Serbia will now be categorized. Whether they will be categorized by how someone is living somewhere and what some of his wishes are, intentions or we will make a criterion based on the development strategy of rail traffic in Serbia, equally or where it is most vulnerable, where we can first come to profit and international integration; either it will be left at will or the will of the individual to determine what is important and what does not matter. Usually the greatest problems arise and the greatest abuses of individuals who are not under control by the congregation or by any other authority. In Article 9: "The right to use and operate operations at the part of railway infrastructure for which a public undertaking does not have an economic interest can be given to a local self-government unit". Here I would just add, if it is possible for it to enter into some text – except for international railways. Because we can't give the international railway to local self-government, no matter what local self-government is given here to master railways that have virtually no economic interest, but the international railway, no matter what it is, in some strategy, may have a significant interest in some future. We're going to Article 18. Some things are planned here, construction, reconstruction and modernisation are envisaged. One concept has been forgotten. There are some stripes that have been virtually prone for decades. These stripes have their basis, they have this lower machine and they don't need to be built, they don't need to be reconstructed, they don't need to be modernised, they need to be revitalised. It might be necessary to introduce this concept of revitalisation, because it would avoid two possible projects being done, which is an idea and general project, of five projects that are designed for one rail to be done, at least to be reduced to three. What's going on? We had our own time rail that was built in the 19th century, so the tracks were removed, from the famous line "Orient Express", there remained the lower machine. There's an idea solution, and I think it's better done in the 19th century than anyone would have done today, and all it takes is for them to get back on track and get that railroad completely revitalised. We'll move on to rail infrastructure management. It is in chapter two, where it is necessary to think carefully about how various traffic needs look, what the situation on the ground looks like, what Serbia's strategy is, and how it has been implemented in practice with us. The infrastructure manager must adapt his organisation to the labour needs of traffic taking into account both the current situation and the planned future situation after the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's spatial plan in the context of European integrated processes. That's the strategy that maybe we should have gotten before this law, talk about it, and then see what's best in this law to do, especially in the issue of certificates. That must be considered. If that is not considered, then we are in a position not to make a law that will be implemented evenly and properly throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, in control of the law's process, besides the government, the Serbian Parliament must also have the control mechanism. I think that without it, given how it was managed and how the ZTP Belgrade worked and how it was all reduced to politicisation, to the change of personnel, to the infinite change of railways and to push them into an ambis in the last few years, without a control role we won't get far. It's actually the essence of all of this. I think the law is too much in terms, doesn't know much to answer to. Therefore, it would have to include either the Assembly's control mechanisms through sublegal acts, on the one hand, and on the other hand, it would have to monitor the strategy for the development of rail traffic in Serbia, evenly, correctly, so that no one would be neglected. What we have today in northern Banata, this is one way of discrimination. To drive in the 21st century 30km an hour, a 60-year-old Shinobus, is an attempt to sell Banat or a desire to completely neglect a territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11108	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word, and let the MP Vladan Vukicevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11109	Dear fellow Members of the People, honourable ministers, SDP MPs will support any law in the National Assembly if such legislation in the area that is legally regulated raises the quality of services, reduces the cost of business, losses, improves the organisation of work, and if a match is provided, i.e. competition. We believe the proposed law on railways is such a law. When it comes to public enterprises, I would like to stress that it is very important to know that railways, as well as other public enterprises, cannot and must not use the monopoly position or abuse the fact that they are beneficiaries of budget funds. Public enterprises must, as well as all other companies, operate rationally, on a market principle. I can't produce losses and provide a good material position for myself. With that in mind, I'd like to read you a statement from Director ZTP, which NIN published a month ago. In part of that statement, Mr. Director of ZTP said: "I suggested that we start a project to build thousands of apartments for our workers next year. The College accepted my proposal, and the Management Board began to make decisions to implement the programme. We have large areas of land now untapped, and it's loaded with various taxes. With the consent of the Republic Property Directorate and their director, we intend to trade this land for apartments that we will sell to our workers in the long term. So we're going to turn a vast unused area of about 15,000 ha into a profitable business that's going to bring huge revenues. To be clear, it can't be a profitable business that brings big income. You should know... ", says the director of the ZTP, "... that the Public Enterprise of ZTP Belgrade, with the military, is the largest owner of land in our republic. The company's professional services have visited all locations across Serbia that can be interesting for construction. We will start from larger cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and the Kingdom." Finally, he says, "It is my intention to get to a large number of apartments that will solve the housing problems of many railways." The truth is, the text also states that land will be used for projects with Telekom, for productive purposes. Why did I read this to you? Namely, just because of what I said at the beginning. On the case, I'm quoting the use of a monopoly position. The director says a thousand apartments are provided with land that the railways don't use. It's state land. I ask whether the state has an idea, a desire and an ambition to determine the intentional use of land, but so that it brings profit that can go, for example, to modernise the railways. It's not just about what the land will be used for, it's about a big investment. You know, building thousands of apartments, regardless of what the ZTP uses, is a new non-profit investment, both for the ZTP and for the state, or for the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Can employees in other businesses make it possible for themselves to get apartments like this? Of course I can't, and we'd like that anyway. There, it's using a monopoly position. I don't think it's time for such projects right now. It may be later, but when the whole economy starts, when a more balanced economic environment is created. The project was also agreed by the Management Board of the ZTP, which includes representatives of the government, as well as the founders of this public enterprise. Finally, let me just say, as I said in the beginning, the MPs of the SDP will support this law, but I really want to point out once again the importance of a strict control of the spending of money in the ZTP, because these are, in fact, the money of our citizens, or money from the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11110	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Alexander Djordjevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11111	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today in 2005 we adopt the first system law and discuss the draft law on railways. Of course there's no need to stress at all and talk about what the significance of a railroad is for a country, of course, a rail that is modern, which makes a profit. Today in Serbia, thanks to all those difficult times that Serbia, hopefully, leaves behind, thanks to the difficult economic situation, we have one railway that is not the rail we would like to have. We've got a railroad that doesn't make a profit, a railroad with old railroads, where trains go from 30, 60, up to 100 miles an hour maximum. In modern European countries, they go from 200, 300 and even up to 500 km per hour. All that kind of reminds me of the 1888s when King Milan was driving the first track from Belgrade to Rajkovec, so when it was -- you go today, you get there tomorrow. Of course, in 1888, that was good. What we need to understand today is that geographical Serbia is in Europe and that in some ways all of our laws, if we want to work together economically with Europe tomorrow, we need to comply with the European Community. This law is one of the system laws, which is in line with the European Community and which should also allow the country of Serbia to have a modern railway tomorrow, which will make profits and bring good to Serbia rather than make losses. If we know that today the railway employs about 23,000 to 25,000 people, then it is a large number of people who support themselves and survive precisely thanks to the work on this railway, which we cannot boast is modern, modern and will allow for a significant profit tomorrow. What is most important in this law is that one such a massive rail system is now divided into two systems: one that maintains road and freight traffic and one that will maintain railway infrastructure. Without good and quality infrastructure, there's no good railroad. Another thing that is very important is that competition is created, and competition will allow for a better quality railway and that tomorrow, in a way, economic and market business. It will therefore allow for better and better quality transport, both passengers and goods, and the price on the railways. What is very important to say is that we are in a position with our geographical position to connect the European Community with Turkey and the Middle East. If we do not adopt this railway law, we are putting ourselves in a position to exclude ourselves from competition with European countries and in some way introduce ourselves in the future of sanctions. I guess and I'm sure all of you, and Serbian citizens, want us to simply be integrated with the European Community tomorrow and, of course, live just like all those people living in the European Community, who have a much higher standard than Serbia has today. For this reason, New Serbia believes that there is one of the good and quality laws in front of us and is urging all MPs to accept this law, because this law will allow us to have a better railway and to transform faster on our way to the European Community.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11112	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and let MP Zarko Obradovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on railways, which the Government has submitted to the National Assembly, is one of the most important laws, as many MPs have said behind this speaker, but it is particularly important to highlight, and here in the explanation, it says that the long announcement of the legislation on railways has been made. Of course, it was done by the previous government of the Democratic Party, which in this area, as well as in all areas, did nothing in particular, only brought disaster to Serbia. On the other hand, the SRS, as Serbia's strongest opposition party and the strongest individual party, has a certain responsibility. This is an important law and we have come out with a clear concept of amendments to the bill, which the government submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the basic objectives of the legislation on railways should be to improve the state of the railway system in the Republic of Serbia and to make rails as efficient as possible; to integrate our rail system's flow into the transport services market; to integrate Serbian railways into Europe's rail system. Railways in developed countries are practically the cornerstone of traffic. It is she who combines markets in the exchange of goods and services. First of all, what everyone here has been saying, I will repeat that Serbia is a transit country. That's why every government's goal should be to bring our rail system in and out of line, and you and we know very well that the state of the railways at this point is not good. Serbia's railway needs one good law, a law that will regulate the area completely and will cover all segments in the area of rail traffic. The laws we make in the National Assembly must be adapted to both our conditions and our time and the space in which we live. In doing so, we must make sure that we bring them in with a view to the mutual interest of both Serbia and our countries in the environment and the EU. No law should be passed at all costs and on the walk of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the SRS believes that when the law was drawn up on railways, the government did not have the experience of the most developed countries of the European Union; we are primarily referring to France and Germany. The concept of the SRS is that there is no need to form two public enterprises, as the bill provides. We think it's enough that there's only one public enterprise, and that for everything that needs to be done, there's a competent resolution ministry. That's how we put the railroad on a much higher level than this bill made by the government. So we don't think it's necessary to form two public enterprises, as this bill provides. We believe that the railway should, above all, be managed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through the competent ministry and through this one public enterprise that we have clearly explained through our amendments. In addition to rail management and regulation, railway transport, construction, reconstruction, as well as the modernisation of public railway infrastructure, the resolution ministry should carry out specific tasks of licensing, certification and permits. We believe that by increasing the administrative apparatus in the state administration, rail costs are also increasing. So there's no economic basis for forming two public enterprises. We base it on facts, because if in Germany and France there is no reason to form two public enterprises at the level of their railways, at least there is reason for Serbia, which is far behind developed countries such as France and Germany. It is true that it is stated here that the EU's recommendations to form two public enterprises that would be the successors of the existing Public Enterprise ZTP "Belgrade", but the recommendations are one thing, and our economic interests are the other, and I think the concept of this SRS has a clear access to the law on railways. The SRS parliamentary group has proposed 14 amendments to the Assembly on the draft law on railways. As we can see, the government has rejected all our amendments. Again, for all railways matters should be a competent resolution ministry, according to our concept of the proposal in these amendments, and a public undertaking would do the jobs provided for by this law, with a clear division of jurisdiction and jobs. It is true that it is in the reasoning given to the National Assembly, and it has long been announced that this law has been passed, that there have been more attempts to put this law into congregation procedure. Now we have a chance to have one law that we can say is not fully written. This is best seen in article 50. The bill, which says: "The city railway, tourist-museum railway, metro and cableway, the conditions for construction, reconstruction and maintenance, as well as the conditions for organising transport on these guided systems, will be governed by a special law. "Why did this law not cover this area of traffic? Why bring after some new law? Couldn't this government have drawn up a law that would completely regulate the railway area? This case shows that the basic goal is to pass the law quickly. What is essential is that the law proposed in this National Assembly is complete and adapted to our economic conditions. The essence of the whole story of certain MPs being told here from the ruling coalition was also mentioned by the Belgrade railway node, etc. What I can only say is that Serbia must legally rise in this area above this current situation where the railway is now located, because it is at low levels. There is no need to pass a law that will not cover the entire area in rail-transport traffic. What is the essence of this bill, we will explain it in amendments. The concept cannot agree to form two public enterprises, because that concept is not good. If you wanted to raise the level to what level the railway should have in a country like Serbia, then you should have formed the railway ministry, so we could say that we raise it to a higher level. It is obvious that this law is passed quickly, as recommended by the EU. It's said we'll integrate faster into Europe. Serbia is in Europe and will always be there. It is true that we need to develop railways, it is true that we need to use technologies from the West, and it is also true that we need to comply with our conditions in which we live today. About 27,000 workers are working on the railway, and it is especially important to take care of what social programme will be for those who are expected to lose their jobs. We will specifically refer to all the amendments we have proposed to this bill. We believe that the objectives of the National Assembly must be objectives for the common good, for the entire Republic of Serbia. If you do not accept these amendments, and I see that you do not accept, which we have submitted to the National Assembly in order to correct this law, to be more precise, to be better for this country, you will show the citizens of Serbia that you are exactly the same as the previous ones who have ruled this Serbia for three years, and have brought Serbia back 33 years. This story of joining the EU has no basis unless we are passing laws that will be not only applicable, but also in accordance with the time and space in which we live and economic conditions. This is the basis for all that we in the National Assembly should serve the people. Serbian citizens should, above all, be better off living in Serbia, and this is the basic goal for which we should fight in this National Assembly as MPs. As an SRS MP and as one of the representatives of the only opposition party that advocates what the citizens of Serbia are interested in, I stand behind what I have said and I believe that this law is not well drawn up and will be at the expense of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11114	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and let the MP Rodoljub Gačević be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11115	Dear Presidency, Mr Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is today considering the draft law on railways, and I must say that the SAA appreciates that this law and this government should have been on the agenda of the Assembly before, because we believe that the relationship to this law shows a relationship with the development of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the Law on Railways, SPS MPs first and foremost view it as a question of the development of the Republic of Serbia, because rail transport, projects and the development of rail traffic in Serbia can contribute greatly to the development of the Republic of Serbia, in different ways and I will say more about it. It is a pity that the People’s Assembly had not discussed it before, and I am so much more surprised by the reviews of some MPs when they speak of this law, that they wrote it, or that it had been finished before, without being considered by the congregation. The reasoning of this law shows that some versions of this law were completed in autumn 2001. This shows the attitude of previous governments towards the issue of rail and this law. For them, it was a simple paper that was supposed to serve as a basis for obtaining credit, not a document that needed to improve the position of the railway in Serbia, to contribute to the development of the railway. It is impossible for a single document, one bill to be completed in November 2001, without having been discussed three years afterwards. There was no law as a subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. However, he was twice in the procedure, for the first time the proposer removed this draft law from the agenda, took precedence over the election of governors of the National Bank of Serbia. You know how the election took place, by false voting from Turkey and from other areas of Europe, and that was the point of the agenda that took precedence over the railways. The second time the bill was in the process, but at the end of the mandate of the previous government, when it was already clear that the government had no support in parliament, that new elections were expected to be called and, unfortunately, the issue was then asked as part of the government's marketing. Generally, the assessment that can be made is that previous DOS governments have raised this issue as a question of political marketing, something that may sound nice, but nothing has been done to make it happen. Not only was it not done under this law, but also by projects that were affirmed in the 1990s, nothing was done on their realisation. We Socialists believe that this law should be passed, that it is a serious system law, which brings numerous organisational changes, establishes major obligations of the state and great obligations for railways. Because, the fact is, the railway can be one of Serbia's drivers of development. If you look at the projects of railway infrastructure that exist at the moment and which may be the subject of the work of the Serbian state, such as building a Belgrade railway node or a newly-sed railway node, the Valjevo-Loznica railway line, which has been mentioned, modernising the Pančevo-Vršac track, modernising the Belgrade-Bar railway line, not only as a space or as a route, but also as a relationship with the state community, railway infrastructure corridor 10, since it is most talked about, or the issue of the railway node, you can see how many projects there are there that can, with the proper support of the state of Serbia, bring numerous goods. It is something that will have positive effects and significance for Serbia both in traffic and in economic, technological, social and general development. The traffic importance, if the implementation of these projects is approached, will consist of affirming Corridor 10 and our country will be trained to support Europe's investment for its construction. When it comes to economic importance and the effects of accepting these projects, many industries will get space, an opportunity to re-occupy their capacities, not only construction, but electricity industry, machinery industry, as well as many other branches of the economy. There is no need to talk about technological importance, because our rails are technically and technologically obsolete and it is necessary to install a large part of the new equipment that is being produced in the world, even if we try to train our railways for the needs of the development of the railways that already exist in the world. Of course, the social significance of the implementation of these projects is seen in the fact that a large number of companies will be activated and a large number of people will be employed, and that will be a great gain for all of Serbia. Generally, this law brings a lot of things that are interesting and this law should be seen as a function of the development of the Republic of Serbia. When you look at the data delivered to the public, you will see one frantic data – that out of those 3,809 kilometers of rail in Serbia, only 3% of the rails are such technical conditions as to allow speeds greater than 100-120 kilometers, and only 26% of the tracks are possible speeds of 80-100 km. I'm saying this for the reason that these data, in itself, best say what the condition of the railway is in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think the question of railway development can be talked about not mentioning the Belgrade railway node, for the simple reason I think it's very important. It is not a question of a political party, it is not an ideological issue, it is a question of the need to develop Belgrade and I must say that the issue did not arise yesterday, the day before, at the time of the Socialists, that the issue has been affirmed for 70 years. There were people in this country and in this city who, visionaryly, knew and took certain steps that could only be seen today. I'm saying this because it's obvious that some people can't see the importance of Belgrade's railway knot, and that's probably why they didn't even contribute to continuing the project. In the 1970s, the late Branko Pesic, as mayor of Belgrade, performed, of course with a team of people, a change in the general urban plan of the 50s and a project of traffic development was then established in the city of Belgrade. A traffic development project has been developed for Belgrade that was supposed to have two million people and this project was based on transporting people to independent rail systems, methrooms and city railways, as it was done in cities similar to Belgrade at that time by population and by structure, for example. in Vienna, Munich, Stockholm, Helsinki, Budapest, and Prague. I must say, this project has been stopped. It would be good for Mr. Minister to hear, and I think the public of Serbia and Belgrade deserve it, why they care about the realisation of the Belgrade railway node, because it is not a question of the SPS that has reactivated and revived the project in the 1990s, it is a matter of general development of Belgrade and the whole of Serbia. The Sava amphitheater cannot be freed and placed in any function of Belgrade unless the Belgrade railway node is finished. The previous government and previous DOS government did not want the project to affirm. For them, it remained a matter mentioned curtously, but without the purpose and investment of financial resources in the development of the project. We Socialists believe the project is important for both Belgrade and Serbia. We know that in the 1990s a financial plan was drawn up, where both the city of Belgrade and the railways and the Republic participated in funding the development of the Belgrade railway node. We believe that this project can be completed if there is a good will, because only after the completion of the Belgrade railway node can the Sava amphitheater and all that building land be trained and put into economic function. I think it is good for the minister to inform the public why it cares and whether there are ways to complete the project and for Belgrade and Serbia to get something good from the Belgrade railway node as part of a railway development project in the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I have to mention another question, the question of modernising the Belgrade-Bar track. I think it's very important, not only from the point of view of the development of railway work through Serbia, but also from the point of view of the development of corridors and relations with the state community, because I think this railway has more importance than passenger and goods transport. In any case, it far exceeds the space in which it is located and the functions it performs. We were able to learn that this track is in a very bad technical and technological state and that there are 28 shares where the speed is between 30 and 80 kilometers. It takes much more investment in the development of this railway to bring it into that primary purpose. I can't help but take advantage of the opportunity, since Mr. Minister is here, not to raise a public question - how far did it take to realize the Belgrade highway project - the southern Adriatic? I know that the Republic of Serbia has done its part of the job and that there is absolute agreement on the need to build the highway in Belgrade to Požega, and from Požega there are some two arms, and there is some disagreement in Montenegro. But the point is why the implementation of the project, which in itself means a lot to the Republic of Serbia, did not join. There is data that if, at the end of October of this year, an international conference by the Ministers of Transport of European countries that will also establish traffic corridors, this project, the road route, is not agreed by the Ministers of Transport of European countries and is not subject to realisation, the whole project will be out of the reach of investments, outside of the reach of money. I'm saying this because I think this is a strategic issue that goes way beyond traffic, and already the area of the Ibar Highway has become too narrow for the number of vehicles in that direction. In fact, some projections suggest that practically in 2010 more than 20,000 vehicles will be on the road daily and only then can it be understood how much it means that the highway is made and that the implementation of the project -- the southern Adriatic. All in all, the SPS will support this law, because we think it is good and we want a new page of the development of the Republic of Serbia to be opened with this law. There are many projects, I have counted some of them, which can contribute to the development of railways and can be of importance to the development of the Republic of Serbia, and ideology and politics should be put on the other side. Serbia needs development. The adoption of this law can create normative assumptions that Serbia is more serious about development and that it supports projects that will contribute not only to the development of the railway but also to the overall development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11116	The word of the messenger of the people is Rodoljub Gačević; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Sava Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what is the intention of the legislator of this law is quite said in the presentations of previous speakers. This is, above all, integration into the European Union and integration into the European railways. However, the way it is intended is both time and opportunity. The railway must, above all, remain state-run for several reasons, and the example of Japan as a country in which the privatisation of the railway, which is said to be, cannot serve us as a model. In Japan, timer accuracy can be regulated according to the time of passing of the vehicle. In Japan, in case the train is ten minutes late, the minister resigns first and there are cases where the minister commits suicide, or harakiri. That's what our minister wouldn't do, even if the train never came. As regards the sale, i.e. the privatisation of the railway section, I believe that this is not possible for these same reasons, because the issue of rail is very important, so it cannot be solved as a matter of successful commercial enterprise, a team before transporting goods and passengers alongside commercial and social issues, i.e. the question of passenger safety as citizens and the like. This proposal did not try to solve a number of problems, such as what to do for the soybean objects that were built in the circular zone and according to the contract at 99 years. The facilities are built directly near the railway, and this directly affects traffic safety. The inspectors can't resolve it. This law stipulates that there is an inspector, but they cannot resolve it, for the simple reason that everything is covered by the agreements to which the minister has given consent. What will the government do for the safety of the railway in the case of, say, strikes, which often happen and are precisely their most sensitive objects on target? How to ensure and guarantee the technical safety of railway infrastructure in the conditions of privatisation, when we have similar examples in the introduction of private carriers, for example, in urban transport, and due to technical failure, it often happens that because of the failure of brakes, control mechanisms, buses end up in channels, with who knows how many injured passengers, and what will remain for the cases of railways, or trains and passengers. Article 48 states that the users, i.e. the owners of the forest and land, of the heading 1 of this article, are obliged to remove trees, growing and leaves in a 10m wide band in the forest, while in a 5m wide band on another land, the mature crops and, where appropriate, take other measures to protect them from the fire. Could this provision be within the meaning of the road safety guarantee, i.e. the railway and could it be a guarantee for passenger safety, regardless of the level of criminal provisions provided for in this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11118	The word has a National MP, Radojko Obradovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11119	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we have one of the most important laws to help us organise in a completely different way one of the basic systems in all developed countries, I mean the Serbian railway. Of course, this law provides for some models that are applied in some of the European Union countries and of course can bring many improvements in the rail system as it is today in Serbia. The question that has been discussed here today is what is the state of Serbia's railways today and what financial effects have been in the last few years of railway operations, which is one of the largest enterprises in the Republic of Serbia. The railway has reduced the number of employees by several thousand over the past few years, and today the number of employees is around 27,000. According to the data delivered here, business results for the past year are about 3.8 billion dinars and 7.8 billion from the budget. So, about 70% are budget funds, and about 30% are their own revenues. If we're talking about all the positive effects a law like this can bring, especially the positive effects that can help us transport goods from abroad, then we're talking about percentage participation in the 30% revenue achieved this year. That's maybe 1/3 of those 30%, so 10% of all revenues will be increased. Here we need to talk about what with those 90% of the funds needed for minimum railway operations on the verge of survival. The railway today is loaded with very poor infrastructure quality, and we are all aware of the very poor quality of the locomotives, or tow systems, of the very poor quality of the wagons, of the very unfavourable qualification and age structure of the employees. Of all the nine largest public enterprises in the Republic of Serbia, railways are probably in the most unfavourable position, for many reasons. It is a closed system, in which it is difficult to introduce market rules if any of the participants cannot appear. There is a public company in charge of transport, which is in charge of infrastructure and no one else can appear there. Therefore, the real situation must be taken into account, that the market cannot be applied in such a closed system. So, all of this, especially when it comes to the fact that the prices, which were free in road traffic, were always limited by the government's decisions, brought the railway into a position in which it is today. It should be kept in mind that no railway in developed countries of Europe and the world works without the help of the state. Of course, there are many advantages, much more favourable for environmental protection than road traffic, there are other advantages, and these are the reasons why the state helps the railways. 13 years ago, and it is also said here, a European Union directive was adopted laying down the principles of railway organisation. The largest number of countries in Europe and in transition have adopted the directives. These directives, as the minister said, help separate infrastructure from transport, i.e. only those important corridors, with the highest degree of mobility, allow market conditions in the area of transport. What attention should be paid to, and this is probably not an accident, is that countries that have the largest and best railways in Europe do not apply those directives on their railways. Is that an accident or is there some other reason why it is? In Serbia there was once a very widespread network of stripes that once worked. Today, very few railways in Serbia, except for these corridors that can be profitable and which are interesting for international transport, are fundamentally and economically justified. Local self-government – it is a matter of years when it will be able to separate any funding for infrastructure at all. Remember, we talked here less than a month ago about the Transfer Assets Act. The largest number of municipalities is on the verge of existence. The delegations of municipalities, after that law were from Rekovec, and today from Despotovac, from most small municipalities come because they cannot put an end to the end, especially by introducing this new tax form of VAT; the fixation of these transfers of funds, which we have all talked about here, significantly limits the possibilities of local self-government. What local self-government will find an economic justification to finance and develop infrastructure or to finance a particular transport company? I do not know such systems in Serbia, except Belgrade, which will likely have an interest in taking part around this railway Belgrade, around the knot. What you should pay particular attention to is the application of this law. The law will be passed and should be put into effect. The separation of infrastructure and transport will significantly change the way it is financed. How are these systems going to be designed to be rationally operational? It is not enough law, a number of sublegal acts are needed and a project of application of this law is needed in practice. Costs – of course, all those who apply to appear in one such system as transport companies will have to pay the right fee. Since Serbia's economy is in a difficult position, there are several companies... And I talked to the Sartid people a while ago, and they're very interested in participating in their rails. But how many such companies that are able to take part and finance any enterprise, were there infrastructure developments on that corridor? These are huge funds and the Republic of Serbia has failed to separate more than eight billion, although ZTP's plans for this year were far higher, but only eight billion were allocated in the budget for infrastructure financing. Whether these funds can be significantly increased, if they do not go into restructuring that will separate all those companies, therefore, which they will have to make more efficient firms; and again they need financial resources, and whether they will be allocated to one firm or two firms, in fact, it is less or less, at least the part concerning the republican budget. Of course, this law, once adopted, has certain deadlines that require its application by establishing all these companies, the introduction of conditionally market principles of the Serbian railways, but all these issues are necessary. I expect the minister to inform us about all these details, but it will also give us an understanding of how more efficient this new company will be and how many of these 25,000 workers directly employed in the ZTP and a few tens of thousands of employees indirectly through the infrastructure, through the repairs and all these other things, will live better than applying these principles in the Serbian railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11120	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to you and I would like to comment on some discussions at the end of today's session. It is true that there is a major problem in the railways and a major crisis. When I came to the head of the ministry, I saw it very carefully and saw that the situation was not pink and that there were problems. I repeat, sanctions are the cause, nothing has been invested in the railways for years, we haven't been in a situation, there's no money. The railroad is a reflection of the state of the economy. It's true that somewhere in Banata, a train passes once a day, but there's nothing to drive. I recently spoke to businessmen in the King. They say -- you know how many trains have passed, and now we have nothing to load on that train, we can't drive empty trains. If it doesn't work, there's no merchandise. It's true that the cars are in pretty bad shape, but this year we've reconstructed 300 new cars in total. Now we've made a deal for the new 300. Serbia was due at the beginning of my term of 2000 wagons, 20 electrolocomotives and 30 diesel locomotives in order to continue normal work. We bring it to an end. It's true that they were working outside the locomotive repairs, and now MIN's got a big job. I've done my best to make sure that the more work is done here, and we'll keep doing it. It is true that Republika Srpska insists and asks us to work towards Loznica-Valjevo and it is also true that we gave the order and put the project into the project for this year and that we are looking for the funds now, that we have applied to the banks to finance this project that is necessary to connect Republika Srpska with the Belgrade-Bar track and that the traffic is taking place. It's a good project and we have to finish it. But also, Serbia's economy cannot pay for a railway service. I have thousands of demands that all submit to the government, recently Luciani, Loznica, Viskoza – free us, don't block us, and the attitude has always been – don't block the economy. Not to mention the flag debt, the Magnochroma and everyone else, and the railroad was blocked. Everyone's looking for their own. Why is this part of the infrastructure detached? They wait when a little money comes in for a job on the railroad and immediately releases a blockage of who knows when, with diesel fuel interest, for electricity, etc. It is true that the electric tow is profitable, and here I fully agree and therefore we are going to connect the Belgrade-Bar and Corridor 10 across the Cacca and Požega railways. It's necessary to do, we're working on it, and the investment is under way. I don't agree with the discussion that didn't happen much. It's been a hell of a lot done. The reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway has almost reached Valjev. It's a huge project. The project is currently under way to the border with Montenegro. We entered this project. The total value of the investment is quite high and predicts the expansion of all combined transport tunnels, which I was talking about. The reconstruction of the Nis-Dimitrovgrad tunnel has been completed and some railway stations are being built, and now bridges at the location of corridor 10 Nis-Dimitrovgrad and must be reconstructed all 18 bridges, the tender is over. A big part of the job got our Bridge with its cooperatives, and these works will be done. We recently finished the tomasseus and reconstructed everything on corridor 10 that was ordered. The Dimitrovgrad train station is currently the most modern in Southeast Europe, recently released, perhaps followed. He's making the most of it. MIN's got more work to do than ever, but we need to secure funds to make sure they pay for it properly. It's true that Probation is something that has to end. It's something about Belgrade's life. I can't understand the Belgrade authorities that they don't want to talk about Prokop. Since I've been a minister, no one wants to discuss Belgrade's most profitable investment. It is true that the Sava amphitheater, or "Europolis", was once designed, no matter who designed it, is an extraordinary project that employs 40,000 people. The investment is over eight billion dollars and foreign companies are coming and wanting to invest in that investment. It is a project not only for Belgrade, but for Serbia. So I'm working on it, and we've come to an end. These days, maybe ten days from now, there'll be a tender. What's the problem? Belgrade wants to earn money on the investment. In Belgrade, construction fees are four times bigger than in Ljubljana, London, Paris. It can't be charged like that. We have a meeting with the Belgrade leadership and I hope we find common solutions. There are 90 euros square in Ljubljana, and currently 270 euros per square square to the city in Belgrade. Prokop has resolved the issue of infrastructure, and if the city is ready to give up taxes towards the city, we will quickly implement a project that is very important for Belgrade and Serbia. We put it in the top priority for 2005. Repeat, rail standard is low. These people worked for low wages, had problems, worked day and night. They understand the situation and want to help and understand the difficult situation that is in the railways. They want their company on their feet and I thank them with my heart. We all know it's hard for them and it's true that the number of employees has been reduced, but no one has been forced into the ZTP without a job, nor will they remain while I'm a minister. We agreed to enter the restructuring program, but we can't leave people out of work, and that's the process we're running. There would have been even fewer employees and there would have been more in the Fund for Salaries and Salaries that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs could have allocated the planned amount of money for restructuring at the ZTP, but they didn't have enough and there was a process stopped. The project of this law you've been listening to here today has been done in collaboration with the largest expert houses in Europe, and someone's been discussing, the law-making consultant was quite French because the French railway peaks were in legislation and organisation. So we respected and took the best experts to work on this law. The consent was obtained from the European Investment Bank, the Development Bank, the European Investment Bank and the World Bank, and everyone had this law and gave the green light to come to parliament. It's true that it's been working a long time, and that's why I haven't changed the assistant from the previous government, because the man worked, the professor of Traffic College, and I've accepted the gentleman who was a candidate for the Democratic Party, because there's no partying here, it's important that we finish the job. I wanted Mr. Boskovic to remain in a position to finish the law together and pass parliament. Therefore, there are no criticisms that some have previously worked on the law. He's the same assistant. I didn't mind that the assistant was in the previous government, because the professor of Traffic College, he worked on this legal project for a long time, and I kept it, as I kept a road assistant working on the Road Law. And I don't mind my deputy being a member of the Democratic Party and working with me successfully on the projects he worked on in the previous period. It's financial separation for now in the company. There's three years to apply this law, so, completely, to get to its realization. In the first phase, financial separation, no new workers are accepted, or new administrations are being created. The modernisation of the Belgrade railway -- the bar is in full swing for combined transport. Why the combined transport in Europe? They have zones where cargo trucks cannot be found ecologically and the European Union has strict criteria. That's why it's supposed to go to rail traffic, get all the trucks in and out of the way. In certain areas, as is the case in northern Italy, the maximum use of rail traffic is to disperse from the pedestals of a particular area that creates plugs. But we hope that our economy will start, that we will have something to drive and that we too will have on our ways to choke. The railway safety law is a special law. He's preparing and he'll be in the process. As for the Belgrade-Bar railway, I said it was done intensively, certain railways were reconstructed, but everything must rest on the economy. Mr. Obradovic's question was for Belgrade's trip -- the southern Adriatic. It's true that the corridors will come around and we'll have to do this. I have prepared the concession and I hope that the president will allow you to come to parliament after an emergency procedure and that you will make a very quick decision on the concession for the construction of the Subotica highway - Požega - Bar. So, a complete highway through the heart of Serbia. You'll have that very soon at the assembly session. I hope that the next meeting will come to parliament, because all the documentation has been prepared. Moreover, for Nis - Dimitrovgrad, audits and project documentation were carried out. I'm sure you've seen now that you're doing extensive interrogations at that site. Thank you, since time is running out, for the attention you've given today to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-18-0.u11122	Since it's 1800 hours, we're finishing today's work.
