ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22904	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Stojanović-Plavsic, Ivana Kovacevic, Donka Banović, Aleksandar Lazarevic, Suzana Grubjesic, Miroslav Markicevic, Nadica Momirov and Miodrag Stamenkovic. We move to the 6th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC OSIGURANJ (specificities) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Živodarka Dacin, Nikola Jovanovic, Predrag Mijailović Lune, Zoran Andjelković, Vesna Lalic, Snezana Pantić-Aksentijević, Miroljub Marić, Snezana Stojanović-Plašić, Toma Busetic, Branislav Blažić, Mileta Poscurica, Natasa Jovanovic, Paja Momčev, Goran Cvetanović, Zoran Krasić, Milan Stevović, Sreto Perić, Darko Glić, Momar Marković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Vjerica Radet, Miroslav Nedeljković, Milivojevoje Vuković, Brankić, Branislav Rankić, Milomir Štović, Milović and Bojekić. National MPs Vesna Lalić, Snezana Pantic-Aksentijević and Miroljub Maric withdrew the amendment as a member of 269th and Toma Busetic to Article 7. It's a bill of law. At the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, the amendments were withdrawn by the MPs of Zivodarka Dacin to members 4, 22, 45, 141, 149, 150, 178, 211 and 236 and Predrag Mijailović Luna to members 13, 141 and 146. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since the Government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendments, and the Legislative Committee considers that they are legally possible, I find that the following amendments of the People's MPs have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal: Živodarke Dacin on Articles 17 and 33 with correction, 34 with correction and 36 with correction; Snezane Stojanović-Plasić on Article 37; Živodarke Dacin and Tome Busetic on Article 214; Tome Busetic on Article 217; and Vesne Lalic, Snezane Pantić-Aksentijević and Miroljub Marić on Articles 48, 104, 236, 237, 237, 239, 240, under the subheading above Articles 241 and 241, to Articles 244, 244, 244, 245, 245, 247, 247, 247, 248, 248, 248, 249, 249 and 250. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22905	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we begin the discussion in detail. I'm obliged at the very beginning to say that we work in irregular conditions. The Assembly is a collective body of national will, the highest sovereign, which by collective thinking and thinking comes to the best legal solutions. It's an alpha and an omega of parliamentaryism and everyone knows it. At the rate of work, unnecessarily, where working until two o'clock in the last day, so it is immediately required of the MPs to consider a very important set of health care laws, and it is clear what is to be achieved. There's a quick, unskilled debate. What I still have to point out at the beginning and what I want to draw attention to is what we said and in principle – it is not allowed for such a set of five laws, with three system laws, to be passed in this way. What is particularly problematic, and what I am pointing to again, and I draw attention to everyone is that these laws do not have the support of the professional public. I read the position of the Society of Doctors of Vojvodina, who asked me to announce from this pay phone that the Society of the Doctors of Vojvodina is opposed to the system laws and feels that they should be returned. I read the opinion of the Serbian Doctor's Society, signed by the president, read the position of the Social Medicine Section, where it is also said that legal solutions are not good and should be returned. Please, if there is no consensus of the profession, there can be no reform. If there is a consensus of the profession, then there will be reform. I have all these documents in front of me. Please, if I'm not telling the truth, to be disproved and someone to show documentation that there are also opposing opinions of the main, in my opinion, actors who were to be engaged in a public debate. But let's let it go, let's get back to the amendment itself and the member I've been making remarks on. You have a member of the 6th. What's my intervention? The intervention was to allow compulsory health insurance to other insurance organisations. What happened? In this chaos and crowd, the ally "i" was left behind, and then there was one explanation, largely and extensively, that the amendment was not accepted, because it was supposed to want and we thought that it would require the Republic Institute to delegate the right to other insurance institutions, so that competition would be established. Of course we didn't want to, of course we explained what we wanted on the Committee, and we didn't do the technical order for two simple reasons. First and foremost, we know you won't adopt, and then it's groundless, and the second is that at a chaotic and fast pace, we didn't even have time to do it. And if we weren't the only ones who made up the slips, the tiny, the scales, the proof is just the government's opinion. In the very opinion of the government, there should be no shortages. It happened to us and I'm saying it's not justified, but I'm explaining why it is. You have baptized our MP Zlatan Jovanovic well in Zoran Jovanovic, and he writes to you in the bill that he is a person of a different name. Next, in that same document goes page 12, 13, 14, then again 13, then again 14. This can be done in such an orderly fashion, but it's a sign of what I'm saying, that even technical services like this can't follow the pace and I don't blame them. It's human. What you're doing is only messing with the government's reputation, and it's giving its opinion in this way. It would be one technical intervention that once again speaks of the whole state of things when a conglomerate of the law is passed in this way. In the exposé of the finance minister and Mr. Minister, one of the important reasons why we're passing this law was to reduce public spending. The public spending reduction imperative is tied to the budget, and is then linked to the insurance law and is likely to go first in an emergency procedure. I only have two things to tell you. Someone will say what this has to do with the amendment. Here's what: it's made us think that we shouldn't give the Fund the exclusive right at this point to deal with this insurance, precisely because of the mistrust in that fund, and what I'm going to try now in some way to document. What was missed in the budget itself and which is not acceptable and which is why we were drawing attention when the cost of the Republic Insurance Office was concerned, when the grants allocated to health care were shown and it was that the law had to be respected and we were, on the other hand, opposed to reducing public spending in the budget account. Namely, there was a phantom surplus in the account. Minister Dinkic explained to us what follows: since we have now proven that we have a surplus in the fund, the next step will be, we will reduce contributions and health care already swims in prosperity and has extra resources and should reduce contributions, because it is such a good situation and since everything is there, we are now reducing contributions and thus dissipating the economy. We believe that this is the wrong move and that reducing public spending cannot be fucked like this, and in no way can any such document in the budget do so illegally. Why do I say that? The budget system law says so – budget incomes and expenditures must be balanced. This is Article 5. The fund's statute, on the other hand, in Article 55, also says – the expenditure and income sides must be balanced. And if that was so evidence is also the original plan of the fund that was brought in, and it was balanced, at the session just before the release of the assembly procedure and I have it in the original. Here is the cost side and the income is even and they are 107, I can't exactly find the number, and it doesn't matter. What happened? Apart from the board's decision, without a meeting, three days later, this one was changed and suddenly another one appeared with a surplus. The original is here. What's this about? It's about one math, an artificial, and an artificial creation of surpluses. It is said clearly, we will pay back our debts, said Minister Dinkic, we are in great debt. If you have debts, you can transfer it in a different way and how you can be in a surplus. I owe, I'm in charge of Pere and then I tell someone else and I take that money and I say, "Here's the extra now." I don't have any extras. As long as I have debts, I can't talk about the surplus. So, the law was broken so that this artificial math could be done and then it would prove that by cutting public spending at the expense of health... And yet, to remind you, it is said – 1.3 of the gross national product must be fucked by public consumption. Health has been given 0.55% of gross national income to fuck this consumption. Minister Dinkic spoke well and said – we will make revenues by selling this, so we have achieved income by pensioning 8,000 people. He doesn't say anywhere that he fucked social rights and giving. That's what he forgot to tell us. And that's the intensity of this law. Therefore, if one institution such as the Republic Insurance Office serves such mathematical exhibitions as to establish a plan according to the legal regulations, balanced, and after three days without a decision of the Management Board, under technical corrections, probably the Director, adopts a completely different plan, where social rights are laid down, no funeral costs, the right to be sick, the item for travel expenses is reduced, we think it is wrong. These are the deep motives that govern us when we say that we should allow the first member and other insurance companies to participate in this. What did the proposer say to us in an explanation? It says – a parallel analysis of the insurance system in the area... Well, we've seen that there is one way or another, yes, we have. We've seen that there's no ideal, and we know that. We're told that we think that everyone should ensure, whoever they want and whoever shows up, that it's by securing the Bureau. No, I don't. It is clear that there must be certain strict fears that allow someone to deal with this. Slovakia has six insurance entities that work mandatory insurance. Slovakia stands out as a good example all the time. We've heard that in the Czech Republic, it is. They're not happy there. If we had a normal situation, and we had a hard time deciding on this intervention, if we had a normal republican institution that really decentralised in a way that the citizen becomes the center of decision-making, and not only to partially lower responsibility to local funds, it means that there is no citizen in the whole story again, then we would probably say for this first phase – well, to go in this way, that this republican institution has the right to solely organise itself. It's funny, gentlemen of the Europeans, that only the SRS is fighting the monopoly. It's funny that we're the only ones who advocate real decentralisation. It's not right. A whole series of other reasons makes us act this way. The SRS MPs are in a small number, those are people who travel 400 and 500km from Belgrade, who worked hard last night, a good part of them for up to two hours and are unable to come. They will come, and we will certainly explain these attitudes. So, to be clear, the SRS is absolutely against allowing only one republican fund to have the assets of about one billion assets spent over one year for the health of our citizens, especially because of the solutions given in this law. It is said that this law is reformish, that it brings in newspapers, supplementary insurance, but it has regulated it in a strange way, one difficult way to understand, and there have been many amendments precisely from the G17 Plus parliamentary group, over 16 amendments that suspended the largest number of members in this area. After the time has run out, I will, of course, interrupt, continue to follow the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22906	The word is from MP Miroljub Maric, authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we are on our way to discuss amendments to the Health Insurance Act. My predecessor, my colleague Momchilov, I have a serious grudge, he misused the pay phone and went into principle debate. I want this opportunity to inform him that the principle debate on the law is over, we should not use and abuse the National Assembly's pay phone in the sense that we are wasting time in some debates, and as a public debate, the debate in principle is over and we should not go back. It's our job to move forward. It's our job to fix the amendments to the health insurance law, I think that should be the goal of all of us, especially us health care professionals. I'd like to refer to Mr. Momchilov's amendment. Article 6(1) states - compulsory health insurance is provided and implemented in the Republic Health Insurance Office and in the organisational units of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Momchilov's amendment suggests that we include others besides the Republic Institute to provide the necessary health insurance. He cites reasons that he does not trust the Republic Health Insurance Office. Gentlemen, we must trust our republican institutions. The Republic Health Insurance Office is controlled by the health ministry, the Serbian government. The new role, under the health insurance law, is for the Republic Institute to plan funding for each year, just to provide enough funding for compulsory health insurance. Secondly, it is impossible for this mandatory health insurance problem to be dealt with by someone else, since the draft new law predicted that the government directly deprives from the budget a good portion of the funds precisely for compulsory health insurance, because we have this new law stipulated that almost all persons in this country have compulsory health insurance. That's right, we'll see in more detail when we're at these points, exactly for refugees, exiled persons, powerless persons who can't handle, over 65 years of age and others, persons of Roma nationality and at all endangered categories that have not yet had compulsory health insurance, this ministry, through this bill, has provided that they are necessarily insured. So, right from the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The main exhibit that can provide all of this for the citizens of Serbia is the Republic Health Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22908	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22909	Dear People's MPs, I'm taking advantage of the opportunity for replication. My colleague told me I abused the pay phone. I didn't abuse the pay phone at all, I spoke within 15 minutes specified by the SRS, and I was talking absolutely about the subject of the amendment. What you're saying now was that it was in principle debate... And I certainly wouldn't abuse a pay phone like this and I might not be silent if these legal regulations had a consensus of the profession, and they don't have a consensus of the profession and I got a warrant from a bunch of colleagues to speak here, not just citizens who elected us representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, but also citizens from other parties, I don't want to pick them up, even from your party. So, it's not right, and you guys now think about why I'm talking and why we're gonna talk. No obstruction, because we're speaking based on facts, using facts. Why did I set an example of the fund and its financial plan that was here two or three days ago before you? Because it couldn't be heard of this speaker, and those who were here the whole time when the budget was being passed were witnesses that I didn't get a word for the amendment I made, which was exactly what this was about. I've been explained that legal regulations and the Rules of Procedure require it. I don't completely understand how it's possible, anything is possible, and I just didn't say it then. For your information, I've received legal information here that I can speak freely in the adoption of a set of insurance laws. Here, I did what the professional service ordered, how she thought it was the most meaningful, I wasn't making any trouble, I wasn't pointing out the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and that's it. You told me I came out of the subject of this first amendment, and I didn't do it. With careful listening, you can connect it clearly. I think it's also clear to the citizens, but you've told us a whole other matter, a matter that's arranged by Article 45, who's right, and you've completely come out of this amendment; I don't blame you, you have the right, you can say whatever you want. Look, I'm just saying, when you resent someone, then be condescending, I don't mind and use your right as you wish. It's your personal right and I don't blame you. I resent that you resent me. Only so much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22910	National MP Mileta Poscurica has submitted an amendment to the titles above Articles 10 and 10. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22911	This and several further amendments were filed by Serbian Radical Party MPs for principle reasons. It is immediately evident that the law is too widespread, not because it closely regulates the area for which it was written, but that in the first part of all these laws there is too principled, too declarative. The law doesn't lose anything, but it doesn't essentially win anything, it's just about opacity and hornacity. For example, what Article 10 says – The principle of obligation: "The principle of obligation is achieved by organising and implementing comprehensive compulsory health insurance for employees and other citizens in the Republic in accordance with this law, which provides insurance companies for themselves and members of their families with the right to health care and the right to cash compensation, in accordance with this law and regulations adopted for the implementation of this law. The principle of obligation shall be ensured by the obligation to pay contributions to compulsory health insurance by employees and employers, as well as by other depositors in accordance with the law, which is a condition for the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance. The principle of obligation shall be exercised and implemented by a common organisation of compulsory health insurance, which shall ensure and guarantee to employees and other persons covered by this insurance the exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance prescribed by this law and the regulations laid down for the implementation of this law. "I purposely read this, to see for yourself how much was said, and absolutely nothing was said. The explanation of his colleague, Poscurica, is that the law is too general, with many declarative, non-binding and unnecessary members, such as this one. Practically, there's nothing to add. It seems to me, with a style like this, that we're going back to the time of self-government socialism, the Cardello, when all our acts, regulations and laws were like these formulas. The law would not lose anything in its quality if this member were deleted, and all that was given in the opening notes, it could have been formulated in a much shorter and more precise way in much less space.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22912	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milet Poscurica submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 11 and 11. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22913	National MP Mileta Poscurica has submitted an amendment in front of the Serbian Radical Party to delete the title and member as a whole - the principle of solidarity and reciprocity. We said in principle that we believe that the law with this number of members is too intense, that there is no law that regulates this area with 269 members, that, if there was already an exact normation, it should go to more laws, especially when we talk about what is really a newspaper in this law, which is additional insurance, voluntary insurance. The principle of solidarity and mutuality – we believe that not only should be declarative for this. It should be accomplished in part, it should not be affirmed through the story, and after the legal solutions, it should be disabled. In a later debate on the key members of this law, we will prove that this law is not reformal and because it has not given modern European and global solutions that govern this area. We need to see where we live, when we talk about solidarity and mutuality. I'm not going to read the whole article, there's no need to take your time, you've all read it. I'll just remind you of a few facts. I'm resented when I quote. All I'm saying here today is, there's a paper document. I don't say anything of my own, I don't have SRS attitudes, nothing is arbitrary, anything can be given for immediate insight. Please, if I'm challenged, that's what those who do it do. On the other hand, let's touch some problems. The World Bank has been the chief partner of the Ministry of Health, and the IMF, for the last five years. That's not controversial. What's wrong is that those who are the main partners express negative opinions about the situation where health policy is and when it comes to the state of our health. I pointed out documents that clearly show that. It cannot be estimated a period of five years, since 2000, as a period of rise. There are no rises in the reduction of morbidity and mortality. The main killer, cardiovascular diseases are on the rise; 87% of the mortality in us, said in a study funded by the international community, was caused by cardiovascular diseases, then by diabetes and then cancer. In the whole situation, it is said that our health care is burdened with corruption. It is said that corruption in health goes between 2% and 4.4% of gross national product. We're having sex at the expense of social spending on public spending. Nothing essential has been done to fuck what can be fucked, where there is a rule of law and will for it. Corruption that is recognised or not admitted, which is constantly respected by the very ones you are sitting with and cooperating with, is not a problem for you. We think she's a serious problem. When we talk about corruption, it says in "Kuru", journalists "Kurira" have called and resented that doctors will not attack and condemn a colleague who was caught when she received 150 euros. Of course not. They will not participate in the farce, because they know that corruption is far more present, it is large, both in health care and in other segments of society. Someone caught with 150 euros is playing the fight against corruption, especially if it is considered that first and foremost what must be done when fighting corruption, these are more salaries and higher personal incomes. So there's big corruption, and that's tender corruption. When we talk about solidarity, there's a few more information we need to point out, which is also related to this law. She said Karol Junger, director of the World Bank in Belgrade, that 45% of the people in 2004 did not address the doctor, and they needed to. How can the Ministry and the competent people in it go peacefully over this fact? Did you ask Mrs. Junger for defiance? Is she telling the truth or not telling the truth? If 45% of sick people don't come looking for medical attention and for a reason he says "we don't have money," what's that all about? It's a serious problem and we have to think about it all. What I'm saying is, this law that gave you broad rights, said everyone's secure and it's okay, we don't mind, it's also for a society like us. In one article, it excludes over 65 old people from being covered by 100% health care. That's precedent. So we're going back to this article, the principle of solidarity and mutuality, not to read what it says, and it says: solidarity and interaction between sexes, between sick and healthy, and between persons of different material status, in ensuring and using rights, and intergenerational solidarity and mutuality. How can you in principle declare intergenerational solidarity, and out of the law, out of your package, which we're going to criticise, you've thrown out a category of people over 65. It's a category of young people up to 26 years old. And it's supposed to stand. We're not against it, but we're warning you it's the healthiest part of our population, and for the first time you've kicked out of a 100% insurance package of old people. Then you give us the principle of solidarity here. Don't declare it. That's why we're asking you to delete the declarative members that are not necessary, that we're pinking the whole picture of the law to you. I'm not worried about you right now, it's a rose of what you've given in such a hurry and what's been given you as an observation and by the World Bank itself that it's been brought quickly, that it's not well arranged, that you've gone too far in giving some rights, that you don't have a financial structure, that we're going to talk about it in person. I'm now protecting a category of people over 65 and 70 years old. Do you know what the average pension of these people is? You know, I don't want to talk. The average personal income in this country is 17,000 dinars. And whoever works has that average. Do you know how many poor people are in this country? You know. Then, if you know all this, if you know that in the last five years, pensioner mortality has increased by 30%, how could you, then, by talking about the principle of solidarity and reciprocity, to exclude them from the 100% protection package? That's the first question you and everyone who claims to be left-wing parties. The second question that you ask here – when you did it, how can you claim to advocate intergenerational solidarity. I'll remind you of what you've been honoring us. Two members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, 30 and 40, mention the category of old persons with other categories. These are constitutional categories, vulnerable. You are now the first time, again with some magical mathematics... I don't even believe that it's some deep-seated intention to be against our old and retired, don't just tell me – when he doesn't have money and when he's classified in the category of those who are socially at the bottom, we might give 100%. We know that. We're talking about an entire population of old people and pensioners. It means we understand each other right away. What we should also say, and when we talk about all this, we were about to fuck public spending, but to fuck irrationalities. You have so much in that fund that I could talk to you about half a day. Here's just one example: medicines; medicines are always a significant item in costs. According to fund data, 3 billion 897 million and 0.51 dinars were paid for drugs last year. What's going on, it's a six-month period, what's going on for 2005? It was paid for the same period five billion nine hundred. Where'd you get a jump like this? How can that be explained, where are the arguments? Medicines in health institutions, which are also defined -- a billion and 300 million, and now a billion and 700. If someone wanted to behave rationally, he could also pay some attention to that item to save some money on that side, not to go on the most unpopular approach, which is to fuck social rights. What I'm trying to say here is, it should be known that this famous list of drugs, which is being brought into the fund, is being brought in an illegal manner. I also said how. It was brought past the agenda, without putting it previously on the agenda, as an additional item of the agenda, when this principal is adopted and that's the same way it's done. Our list of drugs suffers from many irrationalities. I don't want to name them, it's a matter of professional service. The key thing that all citizens can understand – when bringing a list of medicines that the fund will pay and cover the material costs for them – is the obligation to consult the Commission for Pharmacoeconomics. She has a president. The commission does not meet at all, and the president is paid compensations, they are small, symbolic, 10,000 dinars. However, when pension is 17,000, half of someone's pension is more than the average personal income of workers. If you don't work, you're paid not to give a metric opinion, and the statute obliges you to consult this when making a decision. It's just one thing. If we're going through these irrationalities, I said, we could talk about them all day. It's a typical example and what happened with the new recipe form. In June 2002, a regular tender procedure opened a prescription tender and made a prescription and one company received it. What's going on now? On April 19th, it is placed on the agenda, past the agenda point, the recipe problem, to bring a new one. Of course, it's a new one. Without a tender, whoever gets a job, of course, gets a bill-making service. So, without a tender, you get a job. What's the problem? There was a later explanation... What would I ask the chairman – since yesterday was done in a tense atmosphere and because of the throwaway, please do not really bother me, that I do not have a dialogue. Or you can extend my time. There's a certain order. I told you that we work really hard, that this is complex matter. (President: Continue freely, no one will throw you away. I'm extending time for another minute. ) Suddenly there was an explanation, it appeared from Mr Vasili Antić in the press, that the annual damage caused by the counterfeiting of recipes, suffered by the Institute, between 50,000 and 100,000 euros. The statement is incorrect. Don't put up with the Bureau, the Bureau, every recipe that isn't right comes back and won't pay for it. So, the truth is told by someone who's in the Ministry. Let's also take this as Mr. Antic says, four to eight million dinars, if that's translated, it's a loss in that way, and now what do we have? An earlier recipe cost 23 pairs, 50 million recipes are done and now the annual price difference is between the previous 16.5 million dinars. If the exact claim that four million is lost on that previous recipe, which was good, was quite satisfying, what about the 12 that got lost to this better one? There's no economic benefit in doing this, no tender, and we're wondering who gets the job and why and what it's about. I'm ending up, I'm not going to abuse the trust that the chairman has given me. When you have a bunch of examples like that, that's an additional reason why we don't trust the fund in the way it works, and we think it's going to work in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22914	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Verica Radeta has submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 12 and 12. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22915	Ladies and gentlemen, after 15 hours of work last night, I'm taking a look at today's newspaper and I see the title in one newspaper: "Instead of the flu vaccine, 300-400 grams of fruit a day." Of course, it wouldn't be a big deal if it were a proposal from someone who's just from the point of view of medicine, science deals with the team, it probably is, but imagine it's a recommendation from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic. That's where he brought me to Cora Widowsky and the time she suggested selling apartments to pay for electricity. Mr. Minister, do you follow statistics, which are of course nowhere near the real state of life, do you know that 20% of Serbian citizens are poor and 30% more at the edge of poverty? These are statistics, and statistics cannot monitor daily changes in a negative sense in the area. Who you were thinking about when you recommended 400 grams of fruit a day, times four family members, where lucky for Serbian citizens to be able to do so, I believe they would do so without your recommendation and without the fear of the flu, to do so daily because it would be possible and normal. So you're acting like other ministers in the Serbian government. We have been listening here for several days to your colleague, Mladjan Dinkic, who says, threatens health workers, educational workers, administration workers, the judiciary, to increase their salary only on condition that we reduce the number of employees, and then we get the information that in the Belgrade Directorate you have suddenly increased the number of employees from 80 to 120, and that's all, imagine, strange to me, from the G17 Plus party. Of course, we know that this fund is interesting. You remember how Chadine's father-in-law grabbed this fund and what material benefits he got out of it, and that's why we don't find it strange, we're not surprised that you, ministers, are pushing your party comrades into this fund. Then you have someone named Vlad Ignatovic, who has even more salary than the chief because he's your party friend; the man is now on regular military service, and the Directorate is still paying him a cell phone bill. Is it just such an important character that he has to, and while he's in the military to pay for his phone from state money, I'm not sure. You heard from counterpart Paia Momchilov that a list is illegally adopted, so that it is not consulted, which would be mandatory, the Commission for Pharmacoeconomics. We've received a lot of data on illegalities, criminal acts, but literally criminal acts in this area. Participation has been implemented since 1 September 2005, without a decision of the Management Board, as the decision was made on 24 October 2005. Maybe that's the way it's supposed to be, but it can't be before the board decides. Then these various projects, it's interesting who runs these projects in this area: the health account project is run by dentist Milica Gajic from New Zealand, and then the health care financing project is run by Dragica Perusic, also a dentist from Canada. Very interesting and very strange phenomena, Mr. Minister, and we really expect you to explain it to us all well here and answer all our questions. But if you don't know then you'll say you don't know, and if you know how to answer us correctly, not to deceive the public, like your colleague Dinkic. Tonight at 1:00, when I said I got a message from someone who was an educator to ask him why the enlighteners hadn't gotten paid yet, he told me it wasn't true, that they got it. This morning, before I left, I found out that he told half the truth, or half the truth – they only got paid in high school, and these basically didn't and they won't go on until further notice. So, just to warn you that we find out very quickly, and if we don't know at the moment when you say something, we find out very quickly when the minister is lying, if he's lying, and of course we're running as soon as possible to inform the public about it. In particular, this Article 12, where I have proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to delete the title above members and Article 12, refers to the principle of the public. You have said here that the principle of public law is being exercised on the rights of insured persons to all types of information relating to the rights of compulsory health insurance and the public work of the authorities and services of the Republic Office for the needs of insured persons, bodies and organisations interested in the work of the Republic Institute. Why do we think this member should be deleted? Of course, not because we think all of this shouldn't be public, but simply, it's a generally accepted principle and there's no need for one strictly professional law to be burdened with these things. You have a lot of such members in this law and then we get one huge law, and we have a bad experience with this government, as well as with those two previous ones -- when you want to hide something, that is, to get something out of the law, then you burden the law with absolutely unnecessary norms, some generally recognized and known principles, which are only declarative, which essentially mean nothing. Half of what's written here is read in the papers and why it would be contained in the law. That is why MPs, citizens of Serbia, and someone who accidentally takes a look at "The Official Messenger" when this is announced loses in the woods of these members and in fact loses what is essential. That's why the people of the Serbian Radical Party, our colleagues who truly talk fantastically to this matter, you hear and hear more, will warn exactly the essential things and the essential problems of this law. You have said here that the Government does not accept this amendment for the same reasons that you do not accept the amendment to Article 10, and, among other things, you say, the principle of obligation, as well as other proposed principles (solidarity, reciprocity, the public, the principle of continuous improvement of quality, etc.). are the classic principles on which the compulsory insurance system is organised. In addition, it is common in systematic editing of an area of legal life to lay down the principles on which the system is being regulated. So, you said yourself it's common, it's not mandatory. In your own explanation, you said what was the reason for my amendment. Why do I think it would be good, Minister, to accept this amendment and similar amendments that we have submitted? First, to a little bit clear the law of these truly excessive norms. So, not to be misunderstood, we think that the public should be represented, but there's no need for it to be in this law because it would make it easier to talk about those strictly professional laws. I have seen that you have accepted many of the amendments that your party colleagues have submitted, where they have requested the removal of members, that is, a lot of what you have provided by law to delete it and to regulate it by means of a sublegal act. I guess it was the same motive. He asks what of it to be accepted, and what not, but when a man looks at such a thick law, he will be afraid of this many members and sides and such a law is not good. You're not a lawyer, I don't direct this to you personally, but you have professional services that take care of it. We are always talking here, the laws must be precise, clear, concise, unequivocal and that the application of the law does not create an opportunity for abuses. Whenever the law is too wide, whenever there are too many standards, whenever there are indefinite norms, here's a chance for someone to abuse this law by applying tomorrow. So, Minister, once again call to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22916	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I appeal to Articles 225 and 226. Rules of Procedure. I apologize that at first sight this may not have anything to do with the topic and the health care bill package, but violence is a health issue. Article 226 says the MP has the right to request information and explanations and not to list any further, not to take up time. I'm also asking for a notice and an explanation and the functioning of the state; tonight in Surcin, there was an attack on the Surcin Municipality Assembly. A bunch of people out there, armed, they're in, they're in. The people who are employed there are locked up like hostages. This isn't the first time it's happened in Surcin. You remember, not so long ago, when we settled with Bogdanovic, when he abolished the financing of the Surcin municipality, until the Democrats took over, when the interpretation of the Ministry of Local Self-Government was received that he was wrong, then he had to pay off, and now the Democrats have been defined for violence, for intrusion, what we once saw, which we know, and we thought was behind us. So I ask for an urgent explanation, a notice and an intervention from the state authorities that the Surchin Municipality Assembly is being unblocked, that is to say, free all those who have forced their entry there. That's where the employees are locked up in the offices and aren't allowed out. I apologize again, but I think violence is also a health issue. Therefore, once again, I am asking for an explanation from the competent ministers and information, and I am also asking for urgent intervention from state authorities that will allow the Assembly of the Municipality to function legally there. May it be those who have a majority, I don't care who it is, but let's make it possible to do it in a democratic, legal way, not by violence, incursions and the closure of workers in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22918	Thank you. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22919	I'm making up for the presentation of my party colleague, Verica Radete, who spoke about the principle of the public. The principle of the public, when it comes to this fund, which we delegate to has the right to have all the minority money that will be spent on health care in the future, and how it is compromised. Why? Read only the newspaper and you will see, it is said: "The Republic Health Insurance Institute in 2004 carried out all purchases by means of direct guessing, so without public advertising and regular tender procedures. In this way, equipment and materials were purchased for as much as seven million euros, 570 million dinars." We make laws here, we use ourselves often, and we waste time, pointing to you that you often bring unsustainable, unnecessary and inapplicable laws. Here's a typical example: when you get everything you get in health care, then it's done in a direct contract. Of course, there is an explanation from the Fund’s director to prevent many abuses and thus to obtain the cheapest purchases. But they don't agree with those representatives of "Shering" who point out that when pegylated interferon was disqualified from the list, there was no reason why a cheaper preparation and more favourable treatment would not be accepted, at the expense of some other company's tricks, I'm not going to say which, it doesn't matter. Neither are the representatives of the Magna Pharmacy, who have been able to prevent the realisation of an unfavourable contract. Namely, what it's about -- patients operated on cancer, who have to carry a detector bag, were used to something that's a world standard and that's the first firm "Convaltek" to have a participation by the Fund for these quality aids. Thank God, it's stopped and we don't need to talk about it. It has been said that it has agreed with such a way of working and a body responsible for public procurement. You know who's responsible, Director of the Administration, and we have the Public Procurement Authority and the Agency. Management Director Predrag Jovanovic announced in the "Today's" list on 26 September, and he said, "Last year's report by the Public Procurement Authority marked health care as a sector which has been recording a serious decline in savings for the third year in a row." I know, 10% of public procurement goes to health care. Whether it's a large percentage or not you judge it yourself, but we've passed the law that it's mandatory to go to a tender. Mr. Jovanovic grabs his head and says – no, we haven't let him go on direct deals all year long, we've only intervened for urgent and initial things to go on direct guessing, and other procurements to be obtained by legal and regular means. If this member pleads to the public, the purchases, which are the main part of our fund's activities, must be subject to that principle. That's why we intervened and said that we don't go to the declarative members, and that's why we feel that they should be deleted, because when a man doesn't adhere to it, there's no point in burdening the law, because it makes him groovy. So, what I said -- "Today's" list, September 26th, and this second one, "Glass", and there's a date that interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22920	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 13 and 13. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22921	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you do not need to be a doctor or to deal with the health care sector, so that you can see that these principles are declared by Minister Tomica Milosavljevic, who is currently not here, even though he is only an hour and some time during the session... If he's running around and going in like this, you know, we're losing the continuity of the address, and he should record something and possibly give us answers afterwards. The title above Articles 13 and 13, i.e. the principle of protection of the rights of insured persons and the protection of public interest, the first position, second and third, are merely a declarative character, as from the time of socrealism, nothing specifically stands there. Simply, a member to expand the entire law and make it look more pompous and have a lot to say. In fact, our main concern, which Dr. Momchilov has also noted on the Health Committee, is that the law is so written, without concrete solutions, only in general, declarative. We have numerous other objections to the work of the minister and to the negative selection by the health ministry that is done in Serbia's cities, both in Kragujevac and in all cities, and I can think of the situation here, by the VMA through the Clinical Centre and so on. He said that, through the principle of protecting the rights of insured persons and protecting the public interest, social categories, or those on the primary health list of insurance companies, they can absolutely, under this law, expect protection at any time. Now let me ask you and go to the first medical station here in Belgrade, I don't know where it is, probably some street behind these Serbian rulers, where it's closest and to see what chaos is there. Are you familiar with the case of people having to come to a military hospital in Belgrade, and the same is true in a Belgrade municipality, at 04:00 a.m. in order to schedule an appointment with doctors of general practice without talking about an appointment of specialist examinations? Yesterday, I was told that it is the order for an internalist to be scheduled for several days, for people who have cardiac and other disorders, and that is the question, not to mention the participation that is being introduced and which the minister considers to be tolerable for this general level of health insurance. However, from one specialist to another, from a harmless shot of hips or legs, across x-rays, only one such general review of the pensioner in Serbia, which has half a pension of 4,000 or 5,000 dinars, takes 2,000 to 2,500 dinars, and with the diagnosis that is being made in the end, for the drugs to be bought, with a list, and what Dr Momchilov was talking about, he made a nakaradic health minister. We believe that the role of the state must be defined when it comes to protecting our citizens in a much better way. All the rights that health insurance companies had until 2000... And especially after that, when Minister Tomica Milosavljevic and the entire surrounding environment started with this so-called. reforms have completely discouraged hundreds of thousands, not to tell millions of people in Serbia how to solve their health problem. If you don't have any acquaintances, friends with a doctor of general practice, and we're not talking about a second degree of protection, about those who are specialists, or God forbid you have to get the most banignant surgery, you're in a stalemate and you don't have a chance to solve it as a normal health insurance, because they're going to send you from one center to another. For those patients in the King, and I know there is one particular case that needs to come to a nephrological, or Urological clinic in Kragujevac to be given certain examinations. In addition, he is a young man who has lost sight because of a disease that has caused all other problems, and is not 40 years old. Five times, even with the interventions of the Members of the people, they say, there is no place to do what we should do. It happens that without notice they put the patient in the dream and they say - go ahead, and you introduce a treatment participation such as the installation of bypasses in Kamenica (it is indeed an institution with a world, not just a domestic, renomy) of 5% for every day spent in Kamenica and for an extremely difficult treatment always, and such a balance is in the largest number of cases with a positive outcome. You never know what can happen to these people. So 5% for open-heart surgery and for patients who lie in a shock room and not just in Kamenica, but anywhere they have to survive the most critical moments. It's something no one can understand. Then you tell people that the state doesn't want to worry about the most difficult patients, that only those who have the money can be treated, those who find some donations, some sponsorships. And I am not surprised at all by these powerful and truly sad and tragic appeals through electronic media, newspapers when people are looking for help for their children or family members (which are mostly Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija). Then doctors tell them that all of this is possible and feasible, not that, as you wrote it here, protect the right of insurance and protection of public interest, but also that for some of the operations that have started working here, but for which order is due through connection, they can do it abroad at commercial prices; then they are tens or hundreds of thousands of euros. And not to mention that Tomica Milosavljevic, as health minister, is notorious among the doctors in Kragujevac for being known as a tender master. He does it not only in Kragujevac, but also in such a way with pharmaceutical houses he does it and sets up tenders throughout Serbia. It's just that citizens know and see that there's just a little bit of a shift from one to the next, nothing concrete, and those honorable people and doctors that can be said to be at the highest ethical level, and above all, the code of profession that they've been trained for, and they're appreciated in patients, they're demoted. They are not directors, nor commissioners, to them anything these SPOs would say honors, only because they are not members of the G17 and parties who exercise power. It's a tragic picture of our health situation today. You should all be worried about this fact. At the moment we're talking about this, maybe one of your cousins or, God forbid, one of the family members had to go and ask for primary or secondary medical attention, and yes, with the poor incomes coming in messyly, it has to pay in total in one day for patients 40, 50 euros. He knows Mr. Vukevic, in Kragujevac, without asking the minister, they raised the participation that it was amazing. They almost doubled the amount and they say -- we need the money, which we care about, there's a lot of people and they're pushing in here, we're a regional center, and we have an x-ray, we have a magnetic resonance, we have a scanner. People have to come in for a checkup and do these and these kinds of operations. When people came there, those were some prices that no one alive could pay. There is a special relationship between the VMA, as one of the prestigious institutions, not only in our premises, but in the whole area at all, so we can continue to go with our equipment and personnel and with what they can do. You see, a year ago, the VMA signed a contract for cataract surgery regarding hip surgery and kidney transplants with the Republic Health Insurance Office. However, very difficult patients from the interior come to the opportunity to fail, not by the guilt of those people with VMA, because they are working, after all now, because they are going to complete the degradation of the army, they have all been caught and have experienced the same fate, especially because this unfortunate, current Minister Stankovic was once their director. But they could provide a lot more and not just for what I've named you, but for the professional team of people, and you know that there's a small town, over 10,000 people, which is a doctor, which is medical staff, a laboratory. However, the ministry does not want to think in that direction at all, and in such a way, through more intensive co-operation than the ministry towards VMA, and then by giving the possibility that at the lowest possible prices, much lower than in some private clinics, patients come and solve their problem. I believe, very successfully, because the people who work there are in good faith with their colleagues everywhere that and because of the equipment they have ready to help at any moment. These are the things that the state primarily needs to worry about when it comes to an area where citizens expect a lot – health insurance. Every day and today (and you have seen through this extra insurance, now they have started a little more aggressive marketing to force on the media in this sense), in this general chaos, primarily because of the stress that citizens are exposed to, and the biggest cause of the disease is this particular stress, concerned about themselves, your health, your family members. What kind of law do you plan to pass, as he explained to us from member to member of the minister, absolutely nothing new and nothing favourable for our citizens, for all of us, and all of what was extremely favourable was put out of force, starting with the five-octobaric failed coup of 2000 and so on.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22922	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the next amendment, notice that the 58th session of the Administrative Committee will be held today at 12 o’clock. It is Judge Goran Kostic of Paracic, requesting custody approval. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted an amendment to the title above article 14 and Article 14. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22923	This article 14 when it's read, it sounds really nice. It is said: "The principle of continuous improvement in the quality of compulsory health insurance is achieved by monitoring modern achievements in the area of compulsory health insurance and by implementing measures and activities that are in line with the development of the health insurance system", I now stress this, "increase the possibility of more favourable exercise of the right of compulsory health insurance for each insured person. "So this really sounds nice and someone who reads the opening principles will think that the new health insurance law significantly extends healthcare opportunities for practically all citizens of Serbia. However, it is enough to remind ourselves how and why and at what speed the bill on health insurance is put on the agenda, so that we realize that there really is absolutely no connection here between the intentions that are listed in the introductory part of the law and what the insurance companies are waiting for in practice. You know that the Health Insurance Act was put on the agenda of the IMF, as well as the Budget Law. Namely, no agreement has been reached on the extension of the agreement with the IMF, because the organisation requires a reduction of public spending in Serbia, both through spending through the budget and through funds, including the Republic Health Insurance Institute, and is specifically listed as a source of irrational spending of funds. So, on the one hand, we have an obligation to reduce public spending through reduced rights of insured persons in the health care system, and on the other hand we have these introductory members in the Proposal for a Health Insurance Act, where Article 14 says the possibility of a more favourable exercise of compulsory health insurance rights for each insured person will be increased. I don't think this hypocrisy was necessary to the promoter. Of course, people shouldn't hide what the economic situation really is, in this country's economy. If we've already entered a long-term arrangement with the IMF and we need to accept some of their dictatorships and blackmails, there's no need to hide it from the public. Basically, in this law, we wouldn't attack that position, but we really consider it a two-faced one to be reducing rights, and on the other hand we claim to increase those rights. An example is a member of the 45th Law, which will only come on the agenda through the consideration of amendments, where significant restrictions have been introduced in ensuring 100% payment of the use of health services. For example, old people have always been 100% secure so far, the limit has been 65 years, or in some cases it has been 70 years, and now the age limit is deleted and it is said that only if the elderly are heavily physically or mentally disturbed in development will be protected by 100%. That's one hell of a restriction. It was all over Serbia's oldest population. On the one hand, their economic situation is getting worse through amendments to the Law on PIO, and on the other hand, their expenditures under the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act are increasing, so as I said, our citizens need to know what's waiting for them, not that we're going to have an improvement on all plans, at all levels, and in reality it's happening the other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22924	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22925	Only about the applicant of the amendment, and as far as the IMF and those findings are concerned – although they are things that are absolutely incorrect, which part of the opposition, and even now the applicant of the amendment is here – as we enter into some borrowing arrangements with the IMF, and then we have to listen to them. No, sir, the truth is completely different. This country is in charge of Tito's time for 26 billion dollars with that IMF. We owe the IMF. It is part of that debt from the time of government between ′90 and 2000. Most of it's interest, because we were under sanctions, so we didn't take credit with them, but the interest went. That was at a time when you were young, sir. Thanks to this, young people in Serbia are now out of work. I didn't say you were in government, I said that Tito's time was in charge both in the 1990s and 2000s. I said there was a little bit of interest at the time. The government owes an arrangement with the IMF state. We owe them, we have to talk to them and make a deal. How can you not understand that? Otherwise, we'll still be in debt. That's why young people won't be able to have a job, because unless an arrangement with the IMF passes, investment in the country will be reduced. I remind you there are two billion foreign investments this year. It was not from Titus's day, nor when you were a little part of the government. So don't tell the citizens from this pay phone that's not true. Another thing I want to say... The chairman, I'm sorry, isn't much about this amendment, but it's very important for the Assembly. My information suggests that Mr. Bogoljub Karic is walking Serbia with his brother, visiting the MPs again, offering them money not to vote the Republic of Serbia's budget, hoping to bring down the government in this way. When this government does not have a majority, of course new parliamentary elections will be called. We hope, as responsible people, that it will not be now, at this time when the Kosovo and Metohija status negotiations, EU accession, etc. If it's this time, there's no problem. Bogoljub Karic should know that even after the next elections, he will be nothing and will not be the government, for sure, will not participate in the creation of a new government. On the other hand, all those MPs who came to the door, I call upon them to spit on every penny he has offered them, because ever since he stopped playing on weddings, he has earned no penny fair, but only on the coat of arms of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22926	The word is made by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22927	I have nothing to object to Mr. Shormaz's presentation, except that I think he gave a political speech that, from his point of view and his party's point of view, must have some reason, but I don't know how he found the buckle in my presentation. So, I didn't say that the current government was in charge, and there's that. All those IMF tranches are new borrowings. The previous government signed the long-term agreement with the IMF, and I did not criticise it, although it can be criticised, at all these long-term arrangements with the IMF leading the country in transition, as far as I am monitoring the statements of economists, none of them had any luck in the long run, in the long run. I just said that it's hypocritical of the promoter that we have to reduce spending by the IMF dictatorship, and thus the level of health insurance, and in principle the provisions of this law promise that honey and milk, maltenes, will increase all rights. That's what Mr. Shormaz said and what many like. I didn't give him a reason, I only gave him a reason, and I accept that as a legitimate means of political struggle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22928	People's MP Pai Mamchilov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22929	Article 101, if it's misreadable, then we have a right to replication. We are told that we resent what is owed, and no debts are made now; debts are made. The minister repeatedly points out that 170m euros in health loans will be withdrawn. Next, there's a $50 million tranche pulling out for health care. The international community has told us that it has given us 90m euros in grants since 2000. Therefore, the country is in debt, Mr. Shormaz. We don't mind that. Basically, the only question is how funds are spent. And as we're in charge now, there may be no other way for this complex health system to work, but also how can you ask the question of spending that money? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22930	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22931	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd just like to say a few words about how much has been invested in healthcare a few years ago. In 2004, the European Union invested 8m euros in the field of health, although European aid is decreasing every day. Health care is now the fourth most important investment sector, if we look at it since October 2000, with 75m euros. For example, it is much less than the energy sector where 391m euros were invested, but the amount for 2004 is ninth in European investment. As representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, we resent that these projects, which are short-term, are primarily well-paid experts, mostly from those EU countries that give money and spend most of the budget – rarely when they connect or do not connect with state authorities or local self-government, part of it, we must acknowledge, and because of the lack of interest of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22932	Mr. Shormaz, it's not the usual replica on the replica. You'll have the opportunity to come forward by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22933	On what basis did Mr. Momchilov have a replica of my exposure? I had an exhibit on the gentleman's amendment. Mr. Momchilov, it's not a dispute, and I said if we don't get through the arrangement with the IMF we won't have any new investments, we won't even have a chance for new favourable loans. Of course it says 135m euros, but you didn't say 720m euros would be written off. Calculate how much 720 minus 135 is easier for the state. On the other hand, don't feel hit, it's all our business together. The fact is that since the government of the Republic of Serbia under the leadership of Vojislav Kostunica, the country's debt has been reduced by three billion dollars, which with negotiations with the IMF, by repaying the debt in a certain way, via the World Bank, as agreed with Russia on gas. That's the facts. Other governments were more in debt, including these previous ones, so DOS time, than they owed the state. There's always opportunities for borrowing and deleveraging, and that's always going to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22934	Replica, People's Ambassador to the Pai Boys. Please try to close this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22935	Since fellow Shormaz has reported to the Rules of Procedure, then I have the right to the replica. If you say that at the time of Kostunica's rule it is written off and that 700 million will be written off in the next arrangement, we Serbian radicals here have a slightly different opinion. This country has been bombed by international community regulations that exist in the UN. You know the charter as it stands. We believe that what the G17 Institute has issued, that this damage is $100 billion, can write down whatever it wants, will not be part of what is unjustly, needlessly and inhumanely being able to compensate. Therefore, it is not a write-off, it may be a calming of a guilty conscience, and we feel that they owe us far more and that we do not have any practical debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22936	Let's get back to work on the amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 15 and 15. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22937	Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 15, Momir Markovic submitted an amendment to delete the member, explaining that the position of the Serbian Radical Party is too general, with many declarative, non-binding, unnecessary members. Of course, that is true, especially as we are in Article 13, and in Articles 14 and 15, we have talked about principles that practically exclude or fully identify and support each other. This principle of economicity and the efficiency of compulsory health insurance is something that is absolutely understood, but it stems from Article 14, the principles of continuous improvement of the quality of compulsory health insurance. We can't talk about health efficiency at all if we're not talking about the quality of treatment and the level of health care. There is no cheap, economically efficient health care that has been unquality for the past few years, which has suffered its complete breakdown in terms of its maintenance of quality and the monitoring of science in the world. We will certainly show these amendments what has been happening in the last few years, simply alluding that this ministry and this government, after what has happened in the last five years, has no right to even talk about such and similar principles, given that in some basic positions it has wronged or did primarily deliberate mistakes, in terms of health politicisation, unbalanced distribution of material resources, uneven development of health in certain areas and certain parts of Serbia. You can't talk about the rights of insured persons when in this period we had Tetabulin water in ampoules, when we had C hepatitis in transfusions, when we had catastrophic errors at individual clinics, which the public was informed about. Then we can't even talk about the principle of protecting insurance rights, we can't even talk about the efficiency of the functioning of health insurance. What has also been symptomatic over the past few years, it is an unbalanced schedule for both appliances and the development of certain centres; they were first conducted according to political belongings both to who they are and how they like a particular ministry. This is why we believe that these principles, which should certainly be the basis of every health care and health insurance law, are here for discussion, since in the last few years we have an apparent drop in health care levels, that we have done nothing to prevent them, since neither the basic thing that we should do nor the law requires, which is to ban at least the advertising of certain cigarettes or alcohol, which has been proven to burden both the budget and the health budget, but only one different way to present it and represent the citizens. It is all a very dreary picture of the complete functioning of health, which is based on a drop in quality, on corruption, on disorganization, which does not have its strategy, which ultimately works from today to tomorrow. No part of the existing law, which only applied, had to give its results, was respected. Therefore, we cannot talk about the principles that will be tightened in the coming period. This principle that these laws are so insecurely explained exists in the law that so far exists, except that it has not been respected. When he's disrespected himself so far, he probably won't respect himself in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22938	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22939	Dear People's MPs, we see the minister is gone. He's always been with us so far when we've searched a set of current health laws, however, it's interesting that he's not here right now. It may be said that there are more important obligations, but I just want to remind you that the Assembly in the system of parliamentary democracy is the bearer of the highest national sovereignty and that the laws passed here and searched should be for one country to be the most important laws. On the other hand, I would also like to conclude that there are very few MPs from other parliamentary groups here, that these laws do not cause interest enough and that it is strange that only we Serbian radicals are in a position to speak. There probably won't even be an answer to what we say. It is likely that some mathematics of the majority will be voted upon by these laws, but believe me, we owe this on behalf of the profession to do on behalf of the citizens that we point to all the shortcomings and problems we have encountered by reading these legal solutions. You've seen, we're ending this whole group of amendments now to members we don't think should have been. You heard, the principle of continuous improvement in quality, then the economics and efficiency of compulsory health insurance, which was given by counterpart Momir Markovic in front of the SRS. I'm gonna ask you a question for the public. I'd like an answer. It is again on the path of what we are proving, that the fund should not be given a monopoly right to have the funds of Serbian citizens at present, because it does not do so in the best way. There was an article published in the newspaper "Glas" the day before yesterday – flu vaccines are nowhere to be found. You know there's been a lot of talk about the danger and the outbreak of bird flu. They know that the crisis headquarters is also formed, that the whole world is somehow raised and scared. What's going on? This year, thanks to the Bureau and the people who care there, we needed 230 thousand doses of the vaccine. Of these, 210 thousand doses were taken from imports, and 20,000 doses will be produced at the Tolak Institute. The World Health Organization recommends that one country's protection from influenza be adequate for 10% of the population to be protected by vaccine. There are 7.5 million of us, 230 thousand doses that we have to calculate how much that includes. Let me remind you, this year Croatia, which has 4.5 million citizens, has acquired 750 thousand of these vaccines. So where are we, where is Croatia? What's the problem? The first problem is that vaccines are no longer in the world due to high demand, and now waiting lists are already being created in both pharmacies and health homes. There's already panic in the people, and the people need to know they're not going to get it and there's no way, it's not agreed on what needs to be arranged. What's interesting about this situation, when the great interest of the people in the vaccine, on October 21st, the Agency for Medicinal Products (we have passed a law on its work) has been given to do an atest for "Avensis", an import vaccine, 210 thousand doses, and for our, 20,000 doses from "Torlak". Smith Klein didn't show up at all this year, he said he wasn't interested in the Serbian market. "Cyron" from Italy, the third bidder of quality and by the amount of this vaccine, did not get approved atest for unknown reasons, and offered 100,000 doses to our market. So nothing's going on. What's the problem? The problem is that our Torak Institute was brought into an extremely difficult position; this year, unlike last year, when 240,000 doses were delivered, so it was returned, destroyed due to excess endotoxins, it was only able to do the most when needed. Why? Because "Torlak" doesn't invest and it hasn't invested in all these five years. There is a strategic plan, paid by the taxpayers' money in Europe, which clearly said what to do to restore Tolak to the old ways of glory when he was an exporter. Even under the terms of "Torlak" he exported vaccines. He has an extraordinary cooperation with Pastera, Avensis, and he can be an exporter to bigger markets. It is clear how Tolak should function and then on July 12th 2004, the financial plan is not being implemented. "Torak" has a centrifuge that is 50 years old and cannot do the job in a good way for a large amount of vaccine. To remind you, responsibility for national health lies with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's not even the Minister of Health anymore, it's a matter of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The founder of the Tolak Institute is the state of Serbia. Why doesn't five years invest in a Tolak that has personnel, space, knowledge? Knowledge is most important, it is a resource that is absolutely pointed out everywhere as significant, and there is the opinion of two expert teams, it is paid, it is not cheap, to do and to say that this institute needs to achieve what we expect of it, that it has a certificate from the World Health Organization. For these 20,000 doses, the interesting thing is that there are no certificates from the Agency yet, we hear it's going to be negative. We hear there's been a dispute, the Institute claims it's a proper vaccine, and the Agency claims there's no new scandal, new international arbitration, new spending of money. And here's where the financial resources of our people and our country are exhausted needlessly, and then the cutting of public spending, since everything is done here, goes to the expense of taking funeral services, goes to sick leave, goes to a reduction in transport costs. So this is one serious question and this will certainly be the concerned citizens of Serbia. The Bureau, who's in charge of these jobs, doesn't do its jobs right. Not only the Institute; and the state of Serbia does not at this time do not do what is effective, which this member speaks of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, but in an indirect way raises the health of Serbian citizens. So why these declarative members here, when vaccination is one of the main types of protection of what you call public health, and we would like to call the role of the state in achieving health care. On these crucial classic foundations of state protection, this is how the country behaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22940	The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22941	I would like to look back after this series of six amendments, to comment briefly on the amendments, but before that, I want a well-intentioned criticism to instruct my colleague Momchilov, who fascinates me with an extremely good notice of health problems. I have to admit that I'm far less informed of him and I admire him on that side, but I think that for this discussion of ours, it's irrational to talk about these things and I recommend that in some of the terms of all sorts of televisions, which, thank God, there's a lot in Serbia, some term separate and talk nicely. That what he's saying here on television, that we don't make television shows out of the National Assembly, because we have specific assignments here. And my predecessors who spoke about these amendments mostly talked about not some essence of health insurance law, but health problems. We argue undeniably that there are many problems in health care, that they are accumulated, and precisely with this set of laws, we want to channel these problems in some way, return to normal individual, and some new solutions to bring us and how to improve in health care. In particular, we have amendments here, and I will briefly consider not obstructing the work on this point, on Article 10 - principle of obligation, Article 11 - principle of solidarity and mutuality, Article 12 - principle of the public, Article 13 - principle of protection of the rights of insured persons and the protection of public interest, Article 14 - principle of continuous improvement of the quality of compulsory health insurance and Article 15 - principle of economicity and efficiency of compulsory health insurance. Gentlemen, these are the principles of compulsory health insurance. Personally, I don't think it's too bulky, not too broad, and I don't think it's necessary for these principles to be laid out at the beginning of the law, because we want a humanitarian system, and the most normal thing is that these principles exist. Even some previous speakers have said that these principles are fine, but yes, well, they're supposed to be making a bulky law. I believe that principles are in order and that we must comply with all these principles. The problem is second, that in practice individual principles and individual laws are not implemented. This is a completely different problem, and we will have to solve this problem together, that the laws that we are making must be implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22942	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22943	I did not want to report to the replica of my colleague, Maric, whom I highly esteem and who is an honorable man and a good doctor, it is beyond any doubt, but I could not say that for some other members of some other parliamentary groups, let me not be resented. You're saying you resent us for setting an example out of life. We can't talk abstractly, we have to tie to real life. We don't see the point of having a cholastic debate. And I don't have those options, you say for the TV show, and you know that the media is controlled. I'm avoiding showing up on the media as much as I can, and I'm looking for not to leave because of a lot of things just so I don't say it. To go back to a member who's up, that's Article 17. We keep saying that the law is too widespread, extensive, declarative often, and here we understand the intention at the beginning of the legislator that compulsory insurance is for all citizens of Serbia and all of this is listed in Article 17. Here's 25 categories. To ensure that, there is a Article 22 that further says if someone isn't, then they are, and they're all counted through these two members. From the point of view of citizens who need to exercise their right to insurance when we read this law, I have to pay a lawyer to understand what it means here. If the law says what we are proposing, instead of points up to 23, the first point of "all citizens of the Republic of Serbia" and then points 23, 24, 25 would be added, that would include practically all citizens of Serbia. We got it on the board, but for me it's tense, the explanation – the Constitution says this there, and there it is, so everything has to be numbered. I don't understand, if you say "all" then that's not what the Constitution said there and here. That's my problem with elemental logic. Maybe legal logic is something else. Some say law and justice have no connection, but I don't think so, or at least the urgency is that it isn't. Therefore, there is absolutely unnecessary and confusing this list from the public's point of view. If you claim, and do not argue with this law, that is not the point, your goal is decentralisation I do not know why, and we argue that decentralisation should aim to bring a citizen into the center of events and that he decides, this law does not allow and we will prove it to you. How? This is clearly seen in the following members. Therefore, we believe that absolutely this list is not in the function of this citizen who should be at the centre of the event. When we say "all citizens of the Republic of Serbia" and plus these three categories, we said what you said. You're now convincing us that it's something that's out of your mind, and what you've done, and we think it's very ghastly, very difficult to understand, that's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22944	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22945	In support of this amendment, if we want to be human society, and I am sure we all want to, it is normal to provide health care for all citizens of Serbia. If we want to, I don't see why Article 17 would not be interpreted as having article 17 changed and it would be – all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are insurance companies. There are 22 points, and if we count who the insurance company is, then we have to count who it isn't. If the one who isn't there, then I don't see any reason why you're counting so dry on two sides of all the citizens who can be insured. In that sense, the pragmatism of this amendment and our desire to simplify things to make people more and more clear and understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22946	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Health and Family has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22947	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are slowly entering what is the matter of the law, which is likely to satisfy the other parliamentary groups now, that it is less abstract and more concrete. The MP, Mr Glisic, intervened in front of the Serbian Radical Party. This is about mandatory health insurance rights. You here have listed these rights and are said to be – the right to health care, the right to profit compensation during temporary prevention for the work of the insurance company, the right to compensation for transport costs related to the use of health care (hereinafter referred to as: cost of transport). You see, there's one right missing, no compensation for funeral expenses. It's considered wrong. The answer is: If anyone is below the poverty threshold, if there is not enough money, not even a small amount, then it will be compensated from the budget. Okay, let's adopt that. That's the reform paper - to deny rights. We're against it. We're against it. We're against it. Transition societies have a problem restructuring the economy, property from the state must be transferred to private, the public sector must be restructured, and this is not done here. When what was to happen in the public sector and privatisation is not done in the way it should be done, then it reaches for cutting public spending at the expense of health. This people aren't healthy enough to have sex from there. It is our basic message, but we say an additional message - it is not spent in a proper and rational way this dinar that is allocated to health care today in Serbia. And this law prevents more rational models of raising money and making it available. We'll prove it. What's the matter? The following is a controversial view: "The health insurance rights of Article 1 are realised on condition that the income for health insurance is paid, if this law is not otherwise determined". What does that mean? If someone works with an employer and the employer doesn't pay his dues, he doesn't have the right to use these listed rights. So, he's gonna pay out of his pocket, so he's probably chasing someone with a civil suit, or I don't know what kind of litigation the guy didn't get, and you know how these trials go in court with us, and you know when he's gonna get it done, so I'm not telling you. We say you cannot deprive the declared right of a secure citizen if he is guilty of not paying the employer's contributions or another legal person. What does the principle of solidarity to which the legislator is called mean then? The law of a country, one system must be legally coherent. If we want to punish whoever doesn't commit, punish the guilty, the employer, and let the state chase him, let her enter into a dispute with him. You know, when the fiscal registers came up, these bills, and how it went, those who sell barrels, pastries and kebabs if they don't give them one bill shut down shop. There are financial police. So there are various mechanisms. Someone will tell me it's not by the Constitution, by this or by that. We write laws. We're creating a legal basis and a basis for that to be possible. Isn't that logical? Why do I say that? Now I'm going to have to disappoint my colleague Maric. I'm going back to life. I got the letter, the board got the letter and I'm gonna read it all, so you judge if it's SRS now making up and doing some obstruction. I don't want to read the name or the last name. It's not right. It's said, "I'm an AD "Yahorina" worker in the King. Last year, on June 12th, I had a myocardial infarction. Since then, I've been on uninterrupted treatment, or sick leave. The Republic Institute of Health Care for the Raški District - The branch in the Kingdom paid me a fee with a corresponding contribution, concluded in April 2005, when payment was suspended. The mentioned branch in the Kingdom stopped receiving my notes, explaining that the director of the Institute - Belgrade Svetlana Vukajlovic provided instructions in early May 2005, according to which it prohibits the payment of leave to insurance companies whose employers do not pay contributions to other employees. Since I am a difficult heart patient, that I need at least 4,000 dinars per month for treatment, that I am sent by the medical committee to the disability commission, I find that the instructions of the above-mentioned director are not relevant for suspending the payment of sick leave, and thus to interrupt work. A team earlier in this case shall flagrantly violate the law, in violation of the provisions of Article 50. The Health Insurance Act, which provides for profit compensation for cases of temporary prevention for the work referred to in Article 30 of this Act and provides for the employer for the first 30 days, and the Republic of Slovenia for the first 30 days. In addition to this, I have been a manufacturing executive for 28 years, working as assistant director, technical director and CEO. I've done my job safely and successfully, but because of that job, I've had a heart attack. I feel that this previous one has been treated incorrectly, inhumanely and unlawfully and that no one has the right to take my life in this situation. The director just made this shameful decision to euthanasia on me. Who gave her that right? Minister, Government, Prime Minister, European Union or a tenth? Do we, with that kind of attitude towards people, think we should get closer to the EU's human society? I am not against the payment of contributions, on the contrary, I have done this as the head of the social enterprise and I am aware that this should continue to be insisted on filling the relevant funds. From my current position, I am powerless to influence the company's owner to pay his contributions. Let the director and responsible institutions do their job and go with their contribution payment. Apparently, the director here put things upside down by punishing the sick and the powerless, not the owners of the company. I demand that my case be resolved immediately under the law... "and so on. Someone asked me what the app was; well, I'm getting hit by this. If it doesn't hit you and if you can freeze a ton to read this, congratulations. It's one of the human characteristics. Don't mind me if my voice may tremble a little; and don't let me spread that story. So we think that this kind of newspaper and that this is called reform in this situation, in this society... Why are we talking about these numbers all the time? Because of this, this is a country of poor citizens. All international factors say that social protection is one of the most important things that we must have as a country in transition and that we must take great care of. No privatisation is done properly, no people are busy, unemployment is growing. The gray economy isn't contained. Go through the main streets and watch the gigs and what you'll find on the counters. It was criticised in some period when radicals particated in power, but when there were sanctions and there was war. Now it's gone. It's been five years. Is this what the citizens are telling us some kind of science? Who do we represent with our examples as they are? Can we get past that? I'm not telling the minister, I'm not telling the legislator, I'm telling this directly to the Serbian government -- did the citizens deserve to write us letters like this? What do we have to answer? There's no answer. There are legal solutions and we will say again later that the SRS would come up with such a law according to international standards as prescribed by the World Health Organization and the World Bank, which has also funded a lot of projects here today. I advocate and appeal to your human consciousness, I think you all have that, I urge you to amend this amendment and accept this proposal from fellow Glisic. There's no demagogy here. Someone's gonna say we're dealing with social demagogy. That's not true. We deal with the naked life, deal with the unfortunate fate of the people, and I believe that the legislator is essentially trying to achieve good effects. I don't doubt good intentions, I'm just saying – solutions are not good and are not on the line of what the modern world and Europe know. I am so guiding these objections and a whole group of SRS MPs, believe me, we are not engaged in social demagogy, and we think you should accept this amendment. Who's gonna take it? There's no minister. Who? His associates are sitting and taking notes. We've been through these amendments and the government has seen it... It's amazing, believe me, that someone can abolish so far's rights and say it's a civilization range and speak in the principle of comprehensiveness and talk about solidarity and generation solidarity. I don't understand that. I would like someone to explain to me how those principles above can be brought into line with these provisions of the law. I'm surprised someone who belongs to the left, has such parties here, that's no problem. I've had so much to do with this amendment that my colleague Glisic invested. I absolutely think you should adopt him. If you do not adopt it remains a bitter taste for us radicals, but information remains for the people how reforms are carried out to harm the people and their health.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22948	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22949	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow Members of the People, before I say the opinion of the MP's group on this amendment, I would like to say one thing to my distinguished colleague Paji Momchilov, to ask him not to overhear loudly what the left option is and what the left option represents, because each of us should defend his views that he really respects and all that Serbian radicals are fighting for and all that any member of the assembly is fighting for. Of course, with all due respect and respect for this home and for all of you, I am speaking to you in a desire to really in these laws, when it comes to the area of health, as little politicizing as possible, and indeed to try, because this is the last moment, that the more we correct the best laws in the field of health, this complete set of laws. So, on the Health and Family Committee and, of course, here in the voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support this amendment to Article 30(2), where counterpart Darko Glisic of the SRS suggests that item 2 be deleted. Why? There's a story right here that if the employer didn't pay for health care, if the patient doesn't have health insurance, he's gonna have to pay for it out of his pocket. We think it's absolutely wrong. We believe that some times have passed when at all someone should give legal space not to pay for self-sufficient contributions to health care, because if there is anything that is more important than health and health, each of us and every member of our family. I wish no one ever needed to ask for medical attention, but, of course, it's all life and we have to think just like that. In the government's explanation, it is indicated that there is a possibility that the law provides for it, which is Article 143, where it is said that if the insurance company pays for the treatment from its pocket, they will have the right to compensation. Then we wonder again who. Article 143 says: "If the payer of the employer's contribution, or another payer of the contribution in accordance with the law, which has not made the payment of the contribution, the insured person shall be entitled to the compensation of the medical care paid under Article 1 of this Article from the employer, or another payer for the compulsory health insurance contribution. "Station 4 says that the insured person has even the right to account for the legal interest on the amount of outstanding assets under Article 3. So, if he has invested money for his treatment or the treatment of a family member, and he is not paid compensation for a certain period of time, he will be entitled to interest. I think in real life it's going to be a long time before we can take this for granted, because the question is whether it's even applicable. I would prefer that we respect the laws, that there is a legal obligation under which an employer cannot, whether from a state or private sector, not to pay his employees health insurance in the Fund and cannot happen that any person has no money in the budget of the health care fund, and not that he has the opportunity to pay out of his pocket, and then go to that so-called. The known refusion. Let's see who's gonna pay that interest. It's a bit of a bank association. When you go down to minus, you're very safe at that minus interest account, but if you happen to be in some plus or minus because of the bank's error, that justice can never be determined again, because you can't come to that fact. So I would advocate that this member should not even exist in the law, that it is understood that any treatment will be covered, because we Socialists advocate that he absolutely must have compulsory health insurance and that something like this cannot be questioned. I think it's arguments and I'm trying to explain to other colleagues, and there are ladies from the Ministry of Health, that we, as a parliamentary group, will support this amendment by colleague Darko Glisic, and in voting day we will be in favour.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22950	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22951	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is an amendment that this government really needs to accept and that the minister is here to accept it, it is Mr Glisic Darka's amendment to delete Article 30. Paragraph 2 reads: "The health insurance rights set out in Article 1 are realised on condition that the income for health insurance is paid, if this law is not otherwise determined". The reason is that an insurance undertaking may be deprived of the right to health care unless the employer has paid the insurance. Through the analysis we come to the conclusion that this Article 30 should not exist, because if we are in a human society and provide health care for all citizens, then there is no question at all whether we can come to the position of a citizen to come to a doctor, the employer has not paid him insurance, and now he cannot get health care, not by his own fault, but by the guilt of the employer. Now the legislator here says that he should be chasing his employer and refunding from him the funds he will pay if he has. What if a citizen comes, he needs health care and he just doesn't have the money to pay for it? What happens then? Why do we even leave space in the law that it cannot be applied in life? Why do we put this problem that will be evident in life, in practice, if we can't apply it? We therefore consider this to be a completely meaningful amendment, but it results in a very serious analysis. He's the result of a desire to free some states and save some money. We're going back to what we're talking about public spending and this disproportion between the rights and the ability of the state. The right of insurance on one side and the possibility of a state on the other side. Now we have a desire for citizens to have greater rights, and the state calls for it not to be able to achieve all rights materially. Such an analysis and the desire to reduce citizens' rights to health care in any part at all can only be discussed once we have exhausted all the possibilities of rationalization. In the first place, this refers to health rationalisation, which refers to rationalisation in the state apparatus. Whether we can put health care first, second or third in public spending rationalisation, until we have a complete rationalisation of society, while the number of employees in the state apparatus has been fully increased several times, in the ministries we do not reduce to normal; we can re-route these savings towards those social activities that we need more and that are certainly more important in the state. As a result, we believe that this amendment absolutely needs to be accepted; in particular, calling on Article 143 and its ability to refund these funds from the employer and interest makes the whole legal confusion somewhat unclear and unacceptable and only complicating and complicating the life of the insurance company needlessly, rather than doing everything possible to provide him with proper, adequate and timely health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22952	The word has the Minister of Health Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22953	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I want to share the good news with you. I just visited three patients who are lying in VMA and who were successfully operated last night. This is the result of a months-long effort by Serbia's healthcare service and a good example of a joint job for the benefit of citizens. After many years in Serbia, a successful liver transplant was done to a woman who is 28 years old and who today, thank God, is well. That's the good news I want to share with you. Two patients who received a kidney, as part of the surgery, are also excellent. This is a programme of national importance, which exceeds all possible political stories and deserves the Serbian Parliament to get information from the minister of health from this honorary speaker and to share it all together. I urge the presidents of the parliamentary groups to discuss with all Serbian Parliament members in their parliamentary groups. Serbia will not be able to solve the problem of sick people who need organ transplants unless it breaks delusions and taboos, cultural delusions over organ legacy. As the donor card program already records a number that is larger than three thousand today, so it is the obligation of all public office holders and all public life participants to show by example, as did the Minister of Health, as did the Minister of Defence, as it has public figures who, by their example, have shown, if God forbid, a man is in a situation of brain death, that his organs can save someone else's life. Last night, three lives were saved thanks to the success of all Serbian health workers, not only the VMA and the Clinical Centre of Serbia, not only the national transplant coordinator of the respected professor Bozin Radovic, who led the team, Professor Miodrag Jeftic, the VMA, who was also on the team, Professor Neboja Stankovic, who was also on the team, Professor Rada Jesic of the Clinical Centre, who treated and prepared patients, but all of them. Please allow the debate on health laws to pass and, in this sign, the Minister of Health invites all MPs to think carefully about what kind of example they can give to the citizens of Serbia. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary groups to take this opportunity this way. That's why I was away from this room at one point, because I understood that there were questions that I was gone. I'll wait for other remarks on the amendments, so I'll try to answer them documentedly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22954	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to send my congratulations, and I've already called Chief VMA this morning, congratulated him on this success, but Minister, there's no point in using the Assembly's pay phone and you think it means anything good to the Ministry and to you as Minister. Even if you were personally running this operation, I would congratulate you as a doctor, but you're a bad minister. These partial, individual successes, which our doctors' superior hands and brains can accomplish, do not justify the state of our health. You would never go out here and say how many patients died because the waiting lists for several cardiovascular diseases institutes where people can't operate can't be reached. Why isn't there another one, two, three, four institutes? Why is someone tearing down the Institute in Kamenica? So, on the one hand, we have doctors to congratulate. On the other hand, we have a ministry that needs to do something else. We call you here and our discussion is about showing you how bad a minister you are, not how bad the doctors are. There is no citizen who dares to object to doctors or not to praise their success. Besides, you know it's an operation like that, I think it's triple, done six or seven years ago at one of the institutions in Belgrade. The same government wanted to use it as some achievement of Serbian science. It is a teacher's achievement, but I think he was involved in that team. So please, limit yourselves here to the law you're defending today. We're all worth the doctor's successes. We're all responsible for them. For that operation, Minister, you deserve as much as I do. You don't have much credit. Only if you've been on the team in a white coat and you've really helped, I accept. Don't do that, it's the manners of old authorities, but the same political manner that used JUL to boast that some operation was well carried out. Now I should ask you how many people died yesterday to prove you're a bad minister. That's not how it works. Organize, ensure that there are many institutes, not donors, because this action should be conducted in a very wide field, and it really depends on individuals, does not even depend on the degree of education. That's a big problem in the West, you know that very well. I accept that we all help you in that action. Of course, it takes a personal example, and I know you've made a legacy, and I congratulate you, but when you're defending the law here, if we're attacking it, don't give us the success of yesterday's operation, in order to direct our discussion against you. The state of health in Serbia is disastrously bad. You're in on it. You yourself know how you participate, your staff cleaners are in health care, you won't protect the right people in health care, you won't or can't, or you can't, or coalitions bother you or your mentors bother you. That is why this huge discussion of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs, which is why the conflict on the Health Committee between your parliamentary group and our members of the group. I wish there was no conflict, but you force it, you're making it difficult for the Committee to work, because it's oppositional. So what, where luck is there for all committees, according to the Rules of Procedure, to be in opposition, so that the government has control of the committees before it comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not the case that happened with the Committee on Local Self-Government – G17 plus took over the Committee on Local Self-Government. Tell me, where did you win the local election? Where did you get the most votes from the voters, so now you need to lead the Committee on Local Self-Government? You're just looking to keep your mouth shut. If someone was successfully operated yesterday, the G17 plus is responsible, look out for your mother! Don't, it's hypocritical, it doesn't match your understanding, I know your medical understanding and I can't understand that division of your personality, one of the top doctors and one of the very bad politicians, who got into very suspicious waters with very suspicious people. That's why I'm telling you, we'll criticise you day and night. However you appeal to the heads of the parliamentary groups, to the MPs of the SRS, to anyone in this assembly, we will criticise you day and night and you will be grateful for these criticisms. If there was no criticism from the Serbian Radical Party, you'd be biting people in the streets. You can no longer stop, no more brakes, no more brakes, no more brakes, no more National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I repeat once again, when you, Mr. Minister, have this good news every day, it will be commendable. This is good news for both science and our health care and our families. These doctors have long been trained for it, but I'm asking you again -- when are we going to have such institutes that there are no waiting lists anymore? When's the patient who needs surgery tomorrow? When are we going to prevent bribery and health corruption, because there's a waiting list? Is someone consciously holding it, so you're asphalting our paved streets, and you're not making us hospitals where people or children will be treated? That's the difference between your understanding and ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22956	The word has a health minister, Mr. Tomica Milosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22957	It's too expensive your time, ladies and gentlemen, but Serbian citizens deserve to hear us more than once. Organ transplant is a serious area. For her, it is necessary, of course, to have highly qualified experts who are able to perform organ transplants. However, anyone who knows the area is fully aware that the successful organ transplants do not exist without a well-organized organ transplant system. It can be done several times, once, twice and make a once-in-a-lifetime political profit. It is true, if things are understood that way, but it has to be systematically in one seriously arranged state so that it does not represent any spectacular news, but completely normal information. In the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia, in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in Serbia's health system, the problem of organ transplants is being resolved systemically this year. This system way of solving this problem begins to produce results. This positive result, for which the most responsible are those who have done so, above all, deserves to be as good news divided between the health minister and the MPs of the National Assembly. I spoke a little bit about the free decision of everyone and invited the presidents of the parliamentary groups, I just missed inviting party presidents, party vice presidents, senior party officials to think about it in a deep and serious way. Here is the reference to an area related to the intervention and treatment of heart and blood vessels, which is the largest part due to risk factors of behavior and which represent the world’s epidemic. When a man has a heart rhythm disorder and starts to faint and needs a pacemaker, if he's not installed in the first year, the death rate due to non-pasmakers is 40%. It's one of the examples of illnesses you need to solve as an emergency. 25 years ago, Serbia's first pacemaker was installed. In December 2005, after 25 years, there will be no waiting list for a pacemaker. This year they were built twice as many as the last one, a total of a thousand. The National Peacemaker Centre is located 500 metres from here in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. The structures of built-in pacemakers and dynamics are at the highest possible European level. Three times as many blood vessels were performed this year. A few days ago, an MP was operated on in that house, thank God successfully, and a few months ago a few more political life representatives were operated, thank God very successfully, in that house. This is an example of what a good organization means, the systematic supply of consumer material, and, finally, the share of the authorities in the field of health care. The number of heart cateterisation and the number of operations may be higher today because, believe it or not, in 2005, compared to five years ago, there is a new drive for the diagnosis of heart disease and blood vessels in 11 places. One is a children's clinic in Tirshovo, the other is the Institute for Mother and Child in New Belgrade and the two houses, by the way, look completely different. Among them is the Institute of Neonatology 80 years old. You can all organize a visit to this institute together and see what it looks like on the outside and on the inside, completely different. So, things can only be moved if the top profession, which is professional and knows how to do its job, follows the responsible health authority, which makes priorities, which puts drugs where they belong -- in pharmacies and hospitals, which organises a job so that there is order that is not order in time of arrival, but order by medical indication, which does not care who has money in their pocket and whether he can pay or not something that has high ethical criteria. For all this guarantee is just a package of laws that we are discussing today, because in chambers is what is called a high requirement of ethics, ensuring equal availability, solidarity between young and old, rich and poor, healthy and sick. Therefore, the way to solve problems is not exclusively a master's hand, but everything else, a normal environment and, of course, a responsible policy. The criticism certainly is that, without criticism, there is no progress and that is why I thank you for your criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22958	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22959	I'll tell you what it looks like on the Institute of Kamenica case. The fund approved the Institute to perform 800 operations this year and has already stopped the pace because they could do 1,200. During that time, Slovenia has three institutes and operates on people from Kamenica. Slovenia does not have a waiting list for heart surgery, but to hire our people from Kamenica first gave them contracts for 30 operations from 1924 to 1925, the most risky cases their doctors did not want to take. When that success was remarkable, they signed a contract for another 150 operations. So, Slovenia is the size of the Vojvodina, there's no waiting list for heart surgery. They don't die because they're not operated. It can happen that he dies operated or during surgery, it's all now a thing, you know, I don't know, but they don't die because they have a chance. A lot of our patients don't stand a chance. We've got excellent doctors, you're saying we've got diagnostic equipment, but the job needs to be done by the end. That's all I ask the Ministry of Health -- when are you going to cancel the waiting lists, when are people going to stop dying because they didn't have a chance to get into the O.R.? It's your job; like the Minister of Defence's job to provide boots, underpants, shirts, uniforms, so it's the Minister of Health's job not to praise doctors who perform surgery but to allow them to treat people, to create conditions to heal people, so when the government ambushes, when it determines the budget, when the Minister of Capital Investments asks billions to pave the way for paved roads, you say – stop, man, who's going to go through those roads if we don't cure them. Then you balance, not as coalition partners, but as a priority. That's what you're fighting for, Minister, and you'll have the support of the Serbian Radical Party, not dualism by the authorities. You handed the Omnibus Law to the Institute in Kamenica for the management of the AP Vojvodina, so there the "yellow" rule, and on the other hand falls under your ministry as an institute that should treat people. There they go, they argue, they want to drive that man who taught all the people in Serbia how to do the job, they want to get rid of him, because he has someone more politically similar to you or the yellow ones, maybe even in the DSS, because you've all started fighting exclusively for your staff. So, Minister, you will have the support whenever you ask the Assembly to allow you to treat people, and when you are staffed, when you boast, and none of that is useful for the citizens, when you reduce the lists of medicines a citizen can get, when one year you are boasted that at least citizens older than 18 years can be treated abroad, and after that you have to break through Serbia because they receive instructions for abroad and those who could be treated here, means when you remove all the dilemmas that you as a minister, members of a poor political group, lead as you do this job, contact the Serbian Radical Party MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22960	Replica, People's Ambassador to the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22961	As an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I have the right, if he allows me the chairman, to get my word. I'd like to say a few words about what we heard. Surely all MPs of the Serbian Radical Party congratulate the doctors on this success, but it is not good news that the team is headed by a retired man. That's bad news for the system. We know who a colleague of Radevic is, and we know that he's worked those interventions before, and now a man would say that Serbian healthcare is going well. He asked our president of the parliamentary club Tomislav Nikolic when waiting lists for operated heart disease would be lifted. There is one fascination among our people with this great medicine, this tertiary medicine. It will first cease when it comes to the primary medical protection of people in this country by legal provisions and by implementing the right policy. What the system did was badly done because it happened, because if it could be prevented, if it was the liver, not to be an alcoholic, a healthy lifestyle, then he won't need that surgery, and he won't need it. If the vaccine prevents hepatitis B, which it has, then there will be no liver insufficiency; it will occur in a number of cases and will be quiet, but it will fall greatly. Therefore, a good system does not boast of exploits at a tertiary level. He proves he's good today and in the world, if he's done everything on the primary level to keep it from happening. This system of ours doesn't do that. Look at all the expenses and expenses. Primary protection should cover 80% of all needs of our citizens and 80% of the resources should be there, and territorial protection should only support, and secondary, that system. That's what we Serbian radicals are talking about. I asked why Tolak is in a situation after these reports that have been paid for expensive money to destroy 240 000 doses of vaccine last year, and this year 10,000 doses challenge him, they say they are not immunogenic; you are now arbiting and sending to England a sample of the vaccine to the World Health Organization laboratory, since it was reportedly already going to Germany, and that's where the money is being thrown. That's why there's not even enough resources in a bad situation like this for these complex and difficult operations. That's the problem. We're telling you, you haven't figured out the basic, primary health care needs to be put in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22962	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Sreto Peric submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 32 and 32. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Nedeljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22963	A colleague, Sreto Peric, submitted an amendment to Article 32 and suggested that both the member and the title be deleted above the member. What Article 32 says – in order to exercise the rights laid down in Article 30 of this Act, health protection rights shall be subject to insurance training in compulsory health insurance, in accordance with this law, for a period of at least three months continuous or six months with interruptions, prior to the start of application of compulsory health insurance rights. This member is similar to the 30th member we were just talking about and to which the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. So it goes to the rule of law and when the law declares it. As said in the previous article, the insurance company itself will bear the costs of using health services if the employer has not paid the insurance for some reason, by mistake, because of financial indiscipline. It says here that the insurance company can only start using health care when it's three months since the start of health insurance. So, in the first three months of a man's employment, there's practically no right to health insurance under this law. I really don't know what the bill promoter meant, how they feel declared -- here we give all the rights, we extend the rights, everything will be better than before, and we have the situation in Article 30 that we will have to pay everything if, not by his fault, the employer failed to pay for the insurance and we will have the situation in Article 32 that for the first three months practically he is insecure, or will be provided by those members: providing emergency medical assistance, etc. I don't know if the billmaker can imagine what it might look like in practice. The man has a health book, goes to a health care facility, they look there and say, "It hasn't been three months since you've been hired, wait until it's three months." I can't imagine what it's going to look like in practice, how much trouble it's going to cause to the healthcare professionals themselves, especially the mid-medical staff that first comes in contact with the patient, how much there's going to be an explanation, a debate, a conflict, a fight. In addition to being a category of employees who are very poorly paid, who works very often in the most difficult conditions, we now push them out into this first front of the fight to tell patients restrictions from health care rights, something that entire generations have become accustomed to as something natural, and it is natural if you have a health book that you can use health services and, worst of all, it is absurd – it is also true for members of the insurance family of the same restrictions. As far as this previous member is concerned, I have not had the opportunity to take my word for it, because the time of our parliamentary group has been exhausted. I know how on the Health Committee, the representatives of the proposings and MPs in the ruling majority explained it, the situation when you get to a health care facility, they tell you -- sorry, your employer failed to pay, you have no right, you have to pay a full price. So the explanation was – it will not happen in practice. Why won't it happen? Now it's not like before, now there's financial discipline, the employer can't help but pay. So if it won't exist, then why did you predict? I don't know how this is gonna explain, because we didn't get it on the board, not properly, but really no explanation. I'd like the minister to go out for a pay phone not only for the good news, which is why we're all looking forward to it, but also for this to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22964	Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Momir Markovic, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, has submitted an amendment to article 33, which states that the first word "preventions and" is deleted. It is therefore defined that the right to protection in the event of the occurrence of illness and injury outside work covers health care in relation to prevention and early detection of disease, health care in the case of pregnancy, childbirth, and in the postnatal period. There is a clear explanation of the government that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons why the prevention and early detection of the disease is based on a health care system, i.e. on the prevention of the disease, and not only on the treatment of the underlying diseases, the modern systems of organised health care are resting, which is really not disputed, and there is the Ministry of Justice. They then define in an explanation that the basic activity of the primary level of health care organisation carried out within the health care home rests precisely on prevention. There is absolutely a consensus about that, because health homes are the place where citizens first seek medical attention. They're irreplaceable due to treatment prevention and about 80% of the diseases that hit a man today are solving these health centers. We wouldn't have any regrets about the 2005 health home budget in Serbia almost being robbed by six billion dinars, and in what way? Because some 28.8 billion dinars were scheduled for health homes in March last year, but later, at the end of last year, Health Minister Tomica Milosavljevic changed that decision, so he allocated only about 23.1 billion dinars somewhere. Without a public debate, the health minister abolished nearly six billion dinars without explanation. So the primary sector budget, i.e. for health homes, where we agreed that the most important in prevention, decreased by the current year to 23.1 billion dinars. I don't know how it's possible that in just a few months, a respected minister reduces the needs of the largest and most important health sector, and at the same time he increased the hospital sector by 17 billion dinars, so the hospital sector, which is the hospital sector, instead of 21.9 billion, which was voted in March 2004, received 38.6 billion dinars in 2005. He realized that some 17 billion dinars needed more, or almost 200m euros. When it comes to the SRS, it is not at all questionable what is given to hospitals. But the problem is that the minister has created the foundations of a completely changed relationship between the primary and secondary health sectors. The health minister explained that 41 billion dinars were planned for the hospital sector, and for the primary sector, 24 billion and 16 billion more for primary health care drugs. It is normal for hospitals to be more isolated because there have been no cures or sanity material in the past years, our respected minister said. First of all, medicines cannot be subject to the primary health care category, since the budget is particularly separated from medicines. On the other hand, I don't remember the Honorable Minister so far informing the public that hospitals haven't worked for years, that they don't have bandages and medications. That need didn't come up until a year later. That's why this difference is 200m euros. If we go back to the beginning of my presentation, that more or less 80% of health care services are just given in the home of health and that about 65% of the healthcare workers there, of the 130,000 of them, we believe that a reduction in the budget in this respect can be introduced into layoff when it comes to health care workers. If we know that between 70% and 80% are specialists, and the general practice doctor is between 20% and 30%, although in the world there is a completely different relationship, for the primary protection officially declared as the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and our health minister has repeatedly pointed out that, until then, nothing has been done in that field. We believe that in this way prevention certainly cannot take the right place, as this member of the law the Ministry wanted to do. Otherwise, it is not at all disputed that regular preventive annual checks are necessary, that preventive thinking is the most important in medicine, since this is the only way that many diseases can be cured. We all know that cancer isn't indestructible if it's revealed in good time. Unfortunately, many people don't come until it's too late. But we need to know, precisely because when it comes to prevention, there are many waiting lists, which are only skipped by paying, that it's a big problem. If we look at the World Bank's report on Serbian health, it is defined that the analysis of poverty, done by the World Bank for 2004 in Serbia, says that 45% of people who did not go to the doctor even though they were sick for reasons, have stated that health care is too expensive. He's twice as poor as those who aren't. They said they didn't go to the doctor because the price of going to the doctor was an obstacle for them to seek help when they were sick. So besides prevention and how important it is that there is adequate care for people who do not have the material opportunity to be provided with it in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22966	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22967	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the amendment to Article 33(1) is absolutely clear, it should only be read – the right to health care in case of illness and injury outside work includes protection in relation to prevention, early detection, etc. We can't talk about prevention when there's been an injury or when there's been a disease. Therefore, it is clear that the amendment is quite meaningful, by referring to something Mr. Minister said earlier – it is done on transplants, which we congratulate, but the liver transplant Božidar Radevic did before 2000 at the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases "Dragisa Misovic". As for this, it does not justify at all, with all respect, the catastrophic situation in which Serbian health is located. I think Mr. Minister should be informed that television is broadcasting this session of the Assembly and that Serbian citizens are very well aware of the state of Serbian health, what a mess it is. They know very well how long to wait, where to pay, because they pay somewhere and don't pay. They know very well how corruption is in health care. They know everything that's certainly a great evil, against whom we all have to fight and fight together. They know about dissatisfaction and doctors and patients. Therefore, some transplant is something that, with all praise, has been done in Serbia and has not been done for the first time here, but has been done before 2000 and cannot erase and erase a dreary picture of Serbian health at all. This was about prevention. What is extremely important is that we cannot talk about such a significant thing as prevention if we have on TV about advertising cigarettes, alcohol and all other things that we have banned by law; there is no speech about this prevention and that is just another story about something that has already been seen in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22968	Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will, as usual, say something very briefly about the amendment. I would like to make a point that the amendment has been filed by a man who is not a health worker and is not resentful for having submitted this amendment, but I resent my fellow Members of the Parliament group, who have not explained to him what prevention is. To delete prevention from the right to health care is a very funny amendment. On the other hand, counterpart Cvetanovic has just denied himself, in the sense that this should not have happened, but something else has started to talk. In that regard, he mentioned a waiting list in prevention, which is amazing. The list of waitings in prevention does not exist. On the other hand, the problem of funds to function primary healthcare will just be solved by the adoption of a new health care law. Namely, this health care law, which will be followed by this in the procedure, we plan to abolish the bulky and dysfunctional health centers and to give the health homes under local self-government, i.e. the founders to be local self-government, precisely because of the rationalization of the preventive action itself and the main role of the health homes. On this occasion, you will not mind me, I would like to tell my citizens of Alexandrovec, Župe that by adopting this law, we are about to get an independent home of health in Alexandrovac, which is the pre-election promise of the party G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22970	The word is made by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22971	According to the amendment, I would talk longer, and the replica lasts shorter, so that we can be more efficient, as counterpart Maric says. I'm reporting for the presentation of my colleague Maric. The National Assembly is not an expert organization. The sovereignty of the people that is being realized in the National Assembly is being drawn from collectiveism. It is considered not necessary to be an expert in order to discuss something, and there are professional services at our service. So, as far as the National Assembly is concerned, it's just fine that a colleague set this up, because this is a matter of logic, not a profession. "Right to healthcare in case of disease", the disease occurred, then no more prevention, "and non-work injuries include health care in terms of prevention and early detection of disease, health care in case of pregnancy, childbirth" etc. Please, the elemental logic is, the MP has seen well, if the disease occurs excessively, it's to talk about prevention. I don't know if it's something reform new now. Now you convince us it's something new for us to learn. It's a matter of elemental logic. That's why the MP could intervene. It will be an honor for those who will leave this behind and who have not accepted it. Nicely said – right to health care in case of disease. When there is a disease of prevention, there is no more talk of other members and of prevention, and far from our MP knowing nothing about it. He seems to know more than he's proposing. That's weird now. What was on the Committee's explanation, he says – that's what the professional services said. All the honors of these professional services, the lawyers got away with it, which the doctors allowed not to rule the basic, elementary, logical attitudes, I don't know, that's what needs to be seen, we'd like to hear an explanation. He was defending his colleague, and we were sort of arguing, and we should, and it would be nice to hear the promoter, and we would love it very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22972	Thank you, the word has a People's MP Goran Cvetanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22973	An esteemed colleague mentioned my name and name, saying that I had denied myself, which is absolutely not true. I spoke of prevention in a positive way, but it is not appropriate for this member of the law to stand, and in this way explained where 200,000 euros from primary health care, i.e. from home to health and went to secondary, or tertiary health care, from one aspect. Your second observation that preventions have waiting lists – all depends on the diseases. If you have a magnetic resonance, now if you want to do it in Kamenica, you have to wait at least six months. What are the indications that this should be done, it should always be assessed. Perhaps this magnetic resonance is required to be done to prevent a disease that is systemic in nature and covers an entire organism, starting from a cardiovascular system to an exoltamus as a manifestation of a particular disease can occur, so that sometimes you treat a primary disease, and sometimes you act preventively on a disease that is later manifested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22974	The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Are you looking for a replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22975	I think they've already explained their colleagues about this replica, about prevention. What I would especially like to look at is the comment of my fellow MPs that G17 plus in Alexandrovac made a home of health. The home of health in Alexandrovac was built by the people and this state. I think it's high time that certain parties, especially those minors with 1% of the people's standoffs, stopped taking their right to make something and do something in this country. This politicization that we are currently pointing to throughout our discussions, the full politicization of the entire society, where everything is divided into political parties, where health directors are elected by political membership, and not by quality, has brought us here where it has led us. It is precisely the greatest moral fallout through politicization and through stories like this – it is done by G17; then the question is asked – and what, then probably G17 has done all the evil in health care that exists and which is evident and which we point to?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22976	Thank you. Anyone else want a word by amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanović-Plasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Miroslav Nedeljkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22977	Here, in Article 45, another very serious restrictive measure has been introduced, and as far as health care rights are concerned, there are a number of diseases, conditions where the Health Protection Fund will settle the price, i.e. the cost of treatment with 100%. In one place, it is stated that 100% will cover older people’s diseases that are severely or mentally disrupted in development. First of all, it's a very imprecise provision, which means "older persons who are severely or mentally distracted in development", who will evaluate it. There's no age limit introduced at all, so many years, beyond that. We suggest that this inaccurate provision be deleted and that all persons over 65 years of age be provided with health care whose costs are covered with 100% funds. The applicant's answer, or an explanation of why this is not accepted, is – if accepted, the planned separation of the Republic Institute for these purposes would be increased. Clearly, it would increase, but why so much in those opening remarks, you promise in principle a much higher degree of health care on the burden of the resources of the Republic Health Insurance Office. What's the older person waiting for? Their perspective is very dreary, when we look at what health services are that won't be covered with 100%, we have several groups of these health services here, some that will be covered with 95%, and among other things there is intensive care in the stationary health care facility. Old people will use this intensive care in hospitals at the highest percentage, as it is natural because it is the population most exposed to diseases. Operational procedures performed in the operating room, including implants for the most complex and expensive health services; well, old people are forced to use these health services as well. This means 5% of the price will be borne by the insurance companies themselves. Since these are complex operations and they are built into expensive implants, it will be very high prices for this category of pension insurance companies. As I said before, pensions will be less and less in relative terms. These are the most complex laboratory, X-ray and other diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, which the insurance companies themselves are not looking for, but are prescribed for diagnostics by doctors. At least 80% of the cost of health care from compulsory health insurance means up to 20% of the total cost of old people, pensioners will pay out of their check-in and treatment pockets by the selected doctor and specialist doctor. That means, that participation for a simple review will be up to 20% of the full price. For laboratory, X-ray and other diagnostic therapy procedures, also 20%. Home treatment, too. Old people will have the most needs, as things are now, for this home treatment, so if we consider home treatment as one of the measures of compulsory health care, and not as some kind of surgeon patients, then we realize that it will be a great burden, they will not be able to afford home treatment when medically indicated. Stationary treatment, as well as rehabilitation at a stationary health facility. So, physical medicine, post-disease rehabilitation that most exposed categories of old people are practically going to be inaccessible again to this category of insurance. How is he going to pay 20% of the full price of a pensioner who has an average pension? Checks and treatment in the daily hospital – I see no reason why treatment is destimulated in the daily hospital when it is much more acceptable, rational and cheaper than treatment in a classical way for the Republic Health Insurance Institute. The treatment at the day hospital again isn't some special favor at the patient's request. Medical and technical assistance – 20% will again pay for the insurance company itself. At least 65% of the cost of health services will be covered by the Fund, which means 35% will pay for this category, the oldest, and here are eye and hearing aids for adults. We've been going back to that observation we've been making since the start of the discussion about this law. So, it is promised that nothing will get worse and everything will improve, and in practice, when we analyze a member per member, we see that the situation is completely reversed and completely logical from the point of view that the IMF has ordered the government to reduce public spending and through this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22978	Thank you, Mr. Nedeljkovic. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys. I beg your pardon, Mrs. Dacin, since first from one parliamentary group and then from another, it's easier to follow the expert service. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22979	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here we are at the center of the event. This is the most important member. This member has the ambition to define a package of health services and there is now the essence of the law clearly. The legislator wanted to cover everything with mandatory health insurance and that's fine. We don't mind. He gave a wide diapazon right to patients declarative and that's fine. The money will compensate for a shortage that doesn't have a participation, and that's clear. He imagined such a method. This package that's been made in this way by us isn't good for more than one reason. The package was also criticised by this institution, so the World Bank Office in Belgrade, here's the document, I said, I'll show it to you. We received this letter and the basic objections were that the great speed and finalisation of this law, and it is said – the law was quickly passed, there is a huge package of benefits, inappropriate with the means you have. There are no instruments to increase efficiency and reduce prices, i.e. costs and lack of internal control, which gives elements of possible corruption to be achieved. That's what she told you in this letter a few days ago, this lady who signed here and called our Minister of Excellencies. In order for a package to be made this way, it must first exist in the Assembly’s adopted health policy. When we talk about the SRS' position, not to say -- you're just tearing down, derogating, and not giving solutions, here's the solution of the Serbian Radical Party, aided by the greatest experts and minds this people has, which are world-renowned and have a world-class license. I'll say a few words about that later. First, we need to know what the real health needs of our people are. You have to have an analysis of what is the most painful and how much to measure the numbers, so how much resources are needed to realize what you predicted with the package. The law would therefore have to go with the document on the scope, content and standard of health care, because it is the only way to assess the resources. So when you've singled out what the problem is and what's your problem, then you say, I'll treat it this way, these methods, these procedures, these medications, etc., and figure out how much it costs. Clearly, there is no initial financial structure here. The next Article 47, which we have also submitted to the amendment, will allow the accordion to change the conditions each year when it comes to the scope of health care, standards. If you don't have a policy on the national level, brought by this assembly, you have no right... What exists, what the Serbian government brought in 2001, is unsatisfactory and the World Bank has said is confusing and unclear. I was showing you that document. The Serbian Radical Party says -- the goals and priorities of health policy must be to preserve the biological integrity of the nation, because we are biologically disappearing from these areas. It's not the white plague that's the key, it's the important one, and our medical section says, too much dying and dying that can be prevented is that it further leads us to disappear from these spaces. We also say, and for the hundredth time we repeat, that it's not a liver surgery, for which every honor is to the team that has done, and the transplant, but to prevent it from happening. This is putting into the first plan of primary health care, which is not done by proposing the reform offered to us, under the firm that this is a step forward, and we do not see when it will be done, primarily because it did not go to the family doctor's orientation as the primary health care provider, with a team of consultants, gynaecologist, pediatrician, dentist, x-rayologist, etc. This is our philosophy that we present to you; and what is the package of services supposed to look like? It should look like this, this is Republika Srpska's law, which is written by real experts and approved by the World Health Organization, which says – a decision on a minimum package of basic health care; it counts first categories, and categories are risky, those groups that are vulnerabilities, which are pregnant women, children, people over 65, people who have no material resources. Then he says what measures he's going to take, after measuring what his main problems are, to take, so he says, first, prevention. Finally, in the final member, for health care, count 10 points, so much money will be allocated. Then it's a clear bill and then it's a real package of services. The package is recommended by the World Health Organization and the World Bank. Why did the World Bank - advisor give up insistence on its concept, which advocates the whole world, organizes powerful schools, seminars, why in this case, we are unclear. It's unclear why it gave up the concept of family medicine when it's said we're going to Europe. When I say this, I mean the 2002 Declaration of Family Medicine in Europe, the definition of that medicine. This package is no good for you, it is financially unsustainable, over-expanding powers it gives unnecessary. You're giving the right to someone with a rheum. It's not the rheumatic diseases that need to be covered 100%. I said, I'm a cartoon, there's a reum karic, there's someone who's got a little money and then they've got a hundred percent protection and one and the other. It's not right to have. I can't have it. You did not respect the basics. You've been in debt. We'll tell you what other documents of the World Health Organization that you didn't appreciate doing a package like this, and that the World Bank and the World Health Organization say that the package is different, and I'll show you the book; if I have to give it to you, I've read it, if you have to read it to you, I want it to be better, tell the people, if you spray on literature, I don't know what the problem is, but we can solve it too. So this is a key member. As it was brought in, it wasn't well brought in, and then we can't talk about reform. He's financially unsustainable and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22980	Here you go, Mrs. Dacin. Under Article 128, all MPs can also use the library.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22981	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, the Socialist Party of Serbia has always advocated not only the exercise of rights, but also the real protection of the most vulnerable category of people, which is primarily for us children, mothers and old ones. And on this occasion, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resolute Ministry, which adopted our six amendments, which were tabled by the SPS Parliament Club, on this very most sensitive category. My colleague Nedeljkovic is absolutely right here, and I would like to say that the parliamentary group will support this amendment in the voting day. Why? I would agree that this definition of older faces, regardless of exactly what you're thinking of here physically or mentally distracted in development, I would say all older faces, is a relative term. It's true, and we all want to say that it doesn't matter how old we are, but actually how we feel, and we're going to feel as good as we're healthy. If someone in their accident is seriously ill, not to mention if there are physical damages, as is said here, then we can say that a 45-year-old man is also an older person. So we're definitely aware by now that we've been involving most of the older people for over 65 years. I would like to welcome this amendment by my colleagues, Nedjeljković, but I would also not exclude these persons who are severely or mentally distracted in the development, with what would indeed be very difficult to set a limit of years here. Of course, we as a parliamentary group have an amendment to Article 45, and I think that's the key amendment, which is the most controversial one here, I'd say, in the health insurance law. Why? Because this participation is being introduced. Of course, there's always that dilemma about whether the glass is half-full or half-empty, because I've been saying in principle, if the legislator tells me at least, I want to think it'll be 99; 99 will pay the Republic Fund, and 0.01 will pay as the regular participation that our patients are used to. Even in some communication with the minister, we were told that practically this law, adoption, and we saw later and why, in 2006, practically nothing new will happen. No matter what the newspapers have, at last it is a system law, yet we cannot imagine what it will be, how it will be implemented and how health insurance and practical payment of health care services to healthcare institutions under this law will work. If something is not good, if we see, depending on which amendment in which degree these laws will improve, I really think, especially what's new and what's systemic, it's not impossible for us to sit down again in a few months and have changes and additions to this same law and then, if we've overlooked something, correct it. Believe me, the laws are very serious, there was more reading, and I would say now that I'm really closely following every speaker and every amendment, that there was much more to be done maybe to make this law more quality, at least for application.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22982	Any other parliamentary groups under this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Bojan Kekic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, as my colleague Zivodarka Dacin said, this is a key amendment, this is a key member of this law, key to the aspect of the SPS programme above all. We advocate that health services provided by compulsory insurance funds be 100% and no participation. We think it's a top-notch achievement from some former system, from a time of socialism, all those values of the Socialist Party of Serbia have been nurtured during the 1990s. Of course, there have been a lot of problems and there have been a lot of these services that have been refunded and paid by the insurance companies themselves, but what we insist on is that the law has to write it down, so if there are not enough funds, those funds can be replaced in other ways. At the very least, that's what I was saying the last time we talked about the law in principle, the government debt to an individual never fails. Whether it will be charged in six months, in a year, all this is a better solution than the solution offered in this bill, that we have a participation of 5% to 30%. When we talk about intensive care, there's an estimated 5% participation. When we talk about complex operating procedures, it's also 5%. In the given circumstances, people can be in intensive care for several days, there can be such complex operations to be longer in hospitals, and this percentage, 5%, can be a very large sum of money for a large part of the population. The population is sick, poor and, if not elsewhere, at least in health care, we all need to be equal, rich and poor. I think it's one of the top principles that the Socialist Party of Serbia has not stepped down in the most difficult times, and it doesn't stand down today, when we say it's better, and believe it, in this country, there's nothing better in this country since October 5th, so it's getting worse. So, the key to our commitment is for free treatment. If we talk about participation as a significant financial effect, we have analysed what effects it will be if this law and these provisions of the law are applied, so 5%, 20%, 35%; believe that participation in the total revenues of the Republic Health Insurance Institute is very little. I think it's the participation rate of a few percent of the total income, and the total income for 2006 is about 113 billion. What does that mean? If these effects of participation are very small, very low, and on the other hand very burdensome for every man who doesn't have enough money, and a large number of people in Serbia today, in my deep belief 60-70%, lives below some minimum level, and if I know that here some colleagues, first of all from G17, have said that poverty is now reduced to 10-20%, it's not true. Poverty has never been greater than it is today. It's never more of a population decomposition than it is today. So when we talk about the fund itself, the indicator that I'm right is the stability of the fund. Believe that the participation of employees, i.e. from employees, I mean, first of all, these state structures, perhaps these well-being companies that have privatised, is about 70% in the total incomes of the institutions, or the Republic Fund. Earlier, in those worst times, that participation was over 80%. The biggest stability of the fund is when we have these payments, and contributions from people who are employed, above all in the state sector and those social enterprises that did well. Now it's gone wrong, and apparently, in my deep opinion, that situation won't get better in some future period. Simply, the number of employees is a key provision, a key thing when it comes to the stability of the fund. We have no contributions if we have a constant reduction in the number of employees in all businesses. Do you know that we have these months, even in all these years, the constant demands of international financial organisations to reduce the number of employees everywhere and in every place and in public enterprises. It's been in all these privatized companies before. We always said that privatisation in Serbia is bad for a number of reasons. One of the most important reasons is that there has been a reduction in the number of employees everywhere. When we have 3,000 workers and 3,000 people in one cement shop, we now have 700 and 700 salaries to contribute, we can't have that fund in a better position than it was before, and if we know that the wages are not as rich as they've been increased. The tobacco industry boasts, it's great, some of their directors said that now the average salary is 1,000 euros, and they said – when we collect the salaries of all the executives, mostly foreigners, and we ordinary people don't have a slight difference. The average salary may be 300, 400 euros and 200 euros lower than at a time when the tobacco industry was not privatised, when it was state-owned. For these reasons, he is not the minister here, we always recommend that they be careful when it comes to international financial organisations. The IMF and the World Bank – I am convinced that Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Paracin, will be bored with more and the World Bank and the IMF, because their demands are always the same: reducing the number of employees, increasing taxes, reducing public spending, less education, health care, for all these needs, and paying them back more debts. Speaking of these debts, there was a controversy here this morning about our obligations, so I don't know, it's going to cut off our debt to this bank, that other bank, and the London Club, and the Paris Club, and it's going to get better. Please, all these duties came at the time of Tito and at the time of communism, and at the time of Slobodan Milosevic and at the time of the SPS, we had nothing to do. What's absurd about it? It's absurd that they've been counting on us for all these years, and at the same time our assets frozen in banks in America, I believe we haven't received those funds yet. That doesn't apply. Therefore, there is one huge injustice, and for these very reasons when we talk about the role of international financial organisations, all government members should always bear in mind how international financial organisations behave. International financial organisations say when they lend loans to underdeveloped countries -- this is for the development of democracy, you'll have no idea how many billion, but that money is stored in our banks and there's 4% interest. When these same countries seek loans for economic development, industry, agriculture, there are other loans where the interest is 15-20%. Therefore, we need to take good care of this. To conclude, when it comes to this amendment of ours, we are in favour of erasing participation, for free medical treatment. It is the most humane thing and what distinguishes us from all other political parties, we are the only ones who have proposed this amendment, means there is no participation. This is normal because the SPS is the only relevant left in Serbia's political scene. All other political parties that are relevant and important are the right hand and it is normal for their programme not to write this; if they had made these amendments, they would not have been DSS, SRS and others, would have been another political party or ultimate social demagogy. That's not what their programs say. Democrats are allegedly left-wing, but they are absolutely connected to international financial organisations and they are the perpetrators and the worst policy in Serbia that was. In the end, I would like to say and take this opportunity to ask the President of the Assembly to put the resolution on the agenda for the release of our President Slobodan Milosevic in order to be treated as urgently as possible. President Milosevic is seriously ill, he should be free. This government and this congregation should provide guarantees for the man who is the most responsible for the agony that happens after October 5 and what did not happen in those 1990s. It is clear that the international factor, time, will show that I am right, wants the occupation of this country, wants the robbery of this country. His struggle in The Hague is the most important battle for the Serbian state and the Serbian people. I think all MPs and all MPs should show minimal correctness and bring this resolution as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22984	I'm sorry, Mr. Maric, I know it's an amendment, but we've got a business report before that. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Radeta. Certainly, the speaker of the assembly will always put something on the agenda under the legal procedure and also expect those who submit the procedure to do so under the law. I don't know exactly what it's about, but everything that's under the law is going to be as you say by the law on the agenda. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22985	Ladies and gentlemen, we have already had an intervention here under article 225 under which the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary to perform the duties of the MP. We didn't get the answer, and now I want to repeat and get to know the public of Serbia about the very strange things that have started happening again. Crisis headquarters are back in Serbia. I would say that terrorists, as it is, that a group of criminals in Surcin yesterday occupied the So Surcin offices, that the legally elected president in Surcin was physically attacked, that he had medical confidence about serious bodily injuries, that all of this was done on the obvious and with the favor of the police and police station in Surcin. The Serbian Radical Party, since we exercise power in Surcin, has notified the interior ministry of the event, the state administration minister and local self-government have been informed, and neither of the other ministers nor ministries have reacted. We are now looking for, I publicly urge Minister Lonacar to react urgently unless he wants to take responsibility for the Serbian Radical Party to solve the problem itself. I ask the public minister of Loncar what it would be like for Serbian radicals, such as the Democrats and the criminals from Surcin, to enter the Surcin municipality building, to enter the government building last night. Don't think we can't do that, but of course we don't want revolutionary change. We want changes that will take place after the next election. I ask you, Mr. President, to establish contact with the minister and to inform the MPs about what he has done about the breaking of this criminal litter in Surcin, what he has done about breaking up this crisis headquarters and allowing for the normal and legal work of the Surcin municipality. So, the responsibility is to Minister Lonchar. Of course, there is a significant responsibility to Minister Jocic who knows what's going on there, and the police are just walking outside the Surcin municipality building. Employees in the workplace are hostages of these Surcin criminals, unable to leave the Surcin municipality's premises. I call on Minister of Public Loncar, I call on Vojislav Kostunica to inform, if he is not already informed, here I am informing him that his Minister, Loncar, is doing his job, otherwise they take great responsibility. We have little patience left, otherwise the radicals will return to the municipality of Surcin themselves, and the responsibility is both in Kostunica and Minister Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22986	I'm sorry, Mr. Maric, we won't have time. You'll understand very soon why. First, for clarification, it's two business issues, and it's important that we all know the notice. Article 225: "The MP has the right to be informed of all the questions necessary for the function of the MP. "The second position, which is further for some specific ones, concerning the publications of the National Assembly, which is not crucial in this case, and we certainly expect from all the competent authorities who possess the information that will be delivered as soon as possible and will be forwarded to the MPs who need this to perform the function of the MP. It is also an enormous responsibility of the Assembly for specific situations when there is a need to remove immunity. I am informing everyone, under Article 162 paragraph 3, it will be necessary at one point for the Assembly to suspend the session and vote on the removal of immunity in order to continue the investigation process, and please the heads of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives to make a brief deal in the office of the President at 15.00 hours, and now we are giving a regular break until 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22987	National MP Tom Bushetic spoke. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22988	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to briefly say something about the amendment to Article 45, not directly addressing Mr. Toma Busetic's amendment, but as part of the SRS amendment, as part of the amendment of counterpart Miroslav Nedeljkovic. I agree with my colleagues and the finding that Article 45 is one of the key members, precisely because it determines this so-called health care package, how to implement a package of compulsory health insurance services. I absolutely understand the reasons for both amendments, the reasons in terms of care for social cases, the poverty which, unfortunately, is in an increasing number in our country. But we have to go from finding out, because we're passing a new health insurance law, that so far we've had health funding just these mandatory visions, which because of the inability to contribute, what other resources, and all of this was meant to reach the health register, we simply couldn't finance. I think it's a much more destructive and wrong policy if we promise the people some rights, and in practice we can't just make them real. In particular, Article 45 accurately determines 10 points what will be paid from the mandatory health insurance funds of 100%. So what's actually going to be free of charge for the people, health insurance. It is precisely the conditions and diseases that are most important in terms of socio-medical aspects, secondly, the most important in pathology, so that here in these 10 points of payment 100% includes the most severe patients, pregnant women, children up to 18 years of age, all severe patients with serious health problems. Further item - 95%, we specified more categories that would only pay 5% of the price of health services, then we have a third point - 80% of the price of health services and at the end of 65%, paid 65% of the price of health services. To reform health care, to create a sustainable health financing system, it was inevitable to bring about some changes and, let me tell you, we regret that the concept of free health simply cannot be successful anywhere, it is impossible to treat people for free. Simply, there are some things that will have to be paid in the future precisely because we can provide the people with impeccable assurance that everyone has equal services paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22989	It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22990	I'm just checking in to explain one thing. Serbian Radical Party MPs do not feel that health care can be free, therefore, to be 100% free, it is only one trick, because it must be paid. And in the previous system, when we had something like that, people paid through contributions that were previously rejected from personal incomes and then they didn't receive that money directly with their salary, so we thought our health care was free. No, it was paid in one way or another, but it's just a question of how much of our participation is in all this. So I agree that it's impossible for 100% to be paid, it's unrealistic and we don't advocate it, so it's immediately clear. We are clear and express, we say that the package is not well done, and this is for us a question that we do not get an answer to, I repeat it for the third time – why is it not treated by the World Bank and the World Health Organization on a basic package of health services that is free of charge? I'll tell you exactly what's bothering us. Why is this package not providing for conditions that are vitally jeopardizing the patient and which should be 100% paid? Don't tell me – ambulance. If a man falls, an ambulance comes, and he has a heart attack, but he needs that heart attack to be treated for a long time, so we need to do a catesterization, a coronography, so maybe an acute operation from an acute myocardial infarction, so one situation that's quite possible, and that's one of the most severe diseases. These categories should be 100% covered by us, so as is the heart attack acute, as is the edema of the lungs acute, as is the open fracture. It's not in the 100% package, and it's important that from the social point of view, from the point of view when we look at these indicators of poverty and when we look at employment indicators, then we think it's an absolute benefit to our people. We are particularly bothered that there is no category of old people here that should be as category covered by the package. Let's make a deal so let's say we don't have money, 65 years, we've extended years of life, human life is longer, it's not much longer with us, it's known what the expected years of life are, but let's agree, so let's say since 70, people will be 100% covered by this package. So it's our intervention only. We advocate that this package be made according to the standards of the World Health Organization and the standards of the World Bank. So it's an open question for us why it wasn't done by it, why it's paid what donations are and what the loans we're going to pay to do something that's worse for us, I'm not going to say it's bad, but it's worse to use that term, because I wonder why funding projects, which are completely unpublic, are made by experts who are totally incompetent to that area. The problem is Mr. Keder from Slovenia, who is working on a health care financing project, and the intern is. An intern can't understand this; he could, but if he'd proved himself somewhere, so if he'd done something decent and valuable, then it would have. Since time's up, I won't abuse it, I'm done, that's the point, and that's what we're interested in, and we can't get the answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22991	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 47th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Branislav Blažić..
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22992	Ladies and gentlemen, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 47, which is somehow being attached to this article 45. In Article 47, there is no clear intention of the legislator and what he wants to achieve with this article. I'll read it in one piece so we can understand it more easily. It reads: "The Republic Institute for each calendar year brings a general act that regulates content, scope and standard of rights... ", I particularly stress the words "containment, scope and standard of law" because in fact there is a key to this whole member of this article relating to health care from the mandatory health insurance provided for in Article 45 of this Law. So, the legislator predicts that every year we give this law the authority of the Republic Institute to change and reduce the content, scope and standard of insurance rights. Now there's a serious question about the competence of the Institute that we can do something like that at all and that we're devoting this law of content, scope and standard of law, and at the same time we haven't really armed it. What's the intention of changing things every year? We will probably be answered by the legislator, but the government that gives consent and this Republic Institute that suggests it is not competent enough in any case that they can change certain doctrinal views when it comes to certain diseases or when it comes to certain health services. Perhaps it could be done by some expert chamber committee, perhaps a professional commission formed to monitor health movements in certain diseases or in certain conditions, and to propose possibly competent and responsible to increase or reduce the volume at some point. This is all about finance in some way, and this is confirmed in paragraph 2, which reads: "The general act of Article 1 of this Article must be in line with the health care plan from compulsory health insurance and the annual financial plan of the Republic Institute. "Therefore, we come in a position that it is obvious that the size, content and standard of insurance rights will move towards the inflow of funds, and about how someone mathematically or by the figures predicts and looks at it so harshly and says – there is so much and so much money missing here and so much we will reduce the right of the insurance company and we will make up for those funds in the fund. I think we're a little rough on this very serious issue, and we shouldn't be doing this rationalization. I'm going back to the fact that health rationalization should come last anyway. No one says health care shouldn't be rationalized. Of course you should, but not in this way how it tries to achieve this law. What might be easing this whole story and what might be understandable is that we have received a report from the Ministry on the total cost of treatment or in some areas of treatment, what are the costs, what is the level of health care, how much we give to this highest level, and how much we give to that primary health care; whether there are equality or inequality in the territory of the entire Republic; whether rationalisation has made it possible for us to have a European level of healthcare in some areas, and in some parts of the 19th century we are in. If this were supported by a report, it could be far more responsible here to discuss levels, health care content, and in particular to allow such legislation to determine, modify or increase the rights of the insurance company every calendar year. After all, it is not correct for insurance companies, who would have to know what their rights are and what they can expect for what they single out and pay for health insurance. So I don't think anything like that could be considered. Perhaps it could be left to the Assembly, that the Assembly may discuss this after two or three years after the report, which I believe is necessary for us to receive from the Ministry, so that we can monitor and report to the public on the overall health movements. Then perhaps the Assembly could be responsible for considering this issue and considering on the one hand this professional aspect, and on the other hand the financial aspect, so that it would be the one to propose it, and to approve the law of the Republic Institute that it itself creates the content and right of the insurance company, I do not think it is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22993	Thank you. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22994	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have been here for quite a long time because this is the core of the law, this is an essence and this is a key solution that the legislator gives and we will later conduct a debate that, in my opinion, is of less importance under the law itself. I made it clear what was missing from this. Our position is to consider the main objectives: firstly, to preserve the biological integrity of the people and secondly, to achieve our conditions of an adequate level of social justice. So these are our goals. When we put it that way, we disagreed with the package. We asked what you said to the World Bank when she said you didn't have any financial effects, you don't have a receipt. To remind you, it was said that it was all bad before, and it was not good, so people focus most on the period of 10 years of the rule of Slobodan Milosevic, where we also participated in a period of time. However, when these laws and plans were passed, they always had a financial structure. Why didn't you offer us a financial structure to see that this package of yours is sustainable? Where are the numbers, where are those items of yours that you've decided to finance 100%, then by order and all, at least this one where you've overlooked 100%? Why didn't you give us the receipt that was feasible and possible? What did you say to the World Bank when she told you you didn't give the financial structure? You had to give it, so when it comes to solutions like this, then you have to give the documents on the scope, content and standard of health care. If you don't give it, then this is all a dubiosis. How can you even say that would be good enough and enough if you didn't define this? I pointed out to you the law of the Republika Srpska, which was made under the World Bank and World Health Organization, which gave a specification of all costs for the basic package of services and taxed them. You're not that. I'm not saying it's a shame that Serbia is not giving adequate legal solutions and that Republika Srpska is giving. Why? We're even, but it's a fundamental question to me why we don't give it. I don't think you have that financial structure, and you want to force the law and that's obvious. Here's what's going on - we're working like this till two o'clock in the morning, under the sea, like there are some deadlines, and since 2000, nothing has been done to bring system laws since 2000. I know from the information provided by distinguished colleagues from other parties that there have been complete legal solutions on the World Health Organization and the EU line, which have not been taken into account and which are not taken into account, and then we are in a situation that we want to regulate something in an inappropriate and bad way. That's what we're asking you. You can't change the content, volume and standard every year. He can't, gentlemen, by decision of government or Lord of God, unless the state is extremely insecure and if the circumstances and circumstances are extraordinary. You know what emergency circumstances and higher power are, then it's an excuse that it happens year after year. The other thing is if you said that the level of participation is changing, we could understand that, and that would be kind of acceptable to us, to say - the level of participation, as you have decided, we will determine according to the means available. If we have less resources we'll give more participation, if we have more, we'll give less and we understand that, but to change the standard you can't. Why? You didn't arm the rights, this way you defined it. So you hit social again. You're fucking the socialist. So let's skip that, but then you have to put your rights away, you have to say, every year we're going to change rights, and then we're going to go fuck these three categories. It's our fundamental grudge to you. Your law is bad, your law is an impromptu law. That's not what Paya Momchilov says. That's what this woman with this letter I read all the time. Here's what it all looks like and what she did to you and how she butchered you and what she did to your law. Therefore, the kindness of your people at the Ministry we have both this letter and your answers to this really need to follow, as your answer should be to what she said - that in this country 45 percent of people are not being treated and should be treated; as should be followed by your denial or recognition that it is true that 4 percent of gross national income in this country goes to corruption. It's all about questions and what's causing us doubt, and no evil intention towards you. I know this isn't what the minister wrote, and I understand that it was written by experts, but what kind of experts -- like Keber. This Caber has nothing to do with finances, and this is how it's going to be with health care. It's a controversial figure who came here to take 100,000 euros for a job that looks like this. That's not how it was done in Slovenia either. Slovenian law, just to remind you... Mr. Chairman, I said it's hard to work here, it's a noise, it's a real fire, it's intentional, it's the same kind of disenfranchisement we're having here today... (President: Mr. Momchilov, this is not the reason, but soon a new session will begin and people will gather. Go ahead, go ahead. Then I apologize. What I'm saying is that Mr. Keber, a controversial person, apparently didn't come here just to take that 100,000 euros. Mr. Keber's brother, as far as I can tell, is involved in certain equipment procurement transactions that went in for a project called prenatal without a tender. Some cryptic apparatus that entered the country appeared through a Slovenian firm representing the German company Brams, and suddenly these appliances appeared without a tender. She wrote the press, I'm still not speaking in my mind, I'm going to quote what the press has written and what the answers to the competent ones are about getting the equipment for that prenatal screening program. That is why Serbian radicals insist that this law is wrong. I'm not saying he's the worst, but he could be far better; all the preconditions existed, five years. There was the will of the international community to give us credit, and here I have to tell the truth, falsify consultants from abroad, and to arrange this matter for us, and we didn't need it, and we don't need it, because there's a sense here both in economic and medical profession. This puts us in a position of being ignorant for experts, I will not say malice, and it is possible that malicious people, who lead us to the point where Republika Srpska has far better legal solutions from the health area, which are timely and brought, and we are still groping in a place where legislative action is at stake. I don't mind if the government demonstrates what it demonstrates. I only mind that the Serbian parliament takes a mortgage on itself, that it is ignorant and that it adopts laws that are not in the interests of the people and are not in the interest of contemporary European and world tendencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22995	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been here a while ago to discuss whether it is possible for health insurance and health care to be free of charge. Almost all MPs from all parties, and G17 plus, radicals, the DSS, who participated in the discussion, said it was impossible for health insurance and healthcare to be free of charge. It's possible, at a time of communism, it was in the 1970s, in the '80s. Everything was free. Then in Serbia, Yugoslavia, there were five, six million people, all factories, all institutions, the funds were full. Now, if anyone says -- it was artificial, it wasn't real, citizenship, the people don't even care if it was credit or whether it was artificial life. That's the situation. Later, at the time of our government, in the 1990s, after sanctions and the misdemeanor of the international factor, the situation in health care has deteriorated significantly, but today the situation is even worse than at the time of our government. This amendment to this article mainly refers to participation. We advocate that participation be lifted, that health care be recorded as free of charge, because there is no greater task for every authority than health insurance and health care is free of charge. When I say that even in the 1990s, it was better, for example, to work, today in pharmacies for a large number of drugs, very significant, pay big participation. I spoke to Professor Simonovic a few hours ago. He's using a cure where he's participating four thousand dinars. I know of my friends who use drugs where participation is two thousand, three thousand, and you that I've talked to are mostly doctors, engineers, but what about a regular clerk, a regular worker, to take an example like that, which has a salary of tens of thousands of dinars. How he's going to pay for the cure of four thousand, two thousand, five thousand, that's very difficult. The participation is now about 75 percent for individual medications, and I guess it's more than 80 percent. If the minister were to say that all this is unrealistic and that our financial situation is difficult, we always suggest that there are more opportunities for the situation in the Health Insurance Fund to be improved. If we start from the fact that the most important and most pressing thing is the health care of every sick man, we first have in mind the raising of the rate of contribution. The contribution rate is now 12.3, and it could be 15%. No one would put any more serious grudges on it. We could also introduce additional contributions rates for the richest, we have hundreds of billionaires in Serbia today, we have hundreds of thousands of millionaires, additional rates based on the property that people own, and that would be fair. At the very least, I know about last year that the budget had a grant of about five billion, and I don't know what kind of donations are provided for this year, is it not a realistic solution to allocate additional funds from the budget? Those additional funds can be at the expense of the National Office. We know, a hundred million stands out for the People's Office, for Boris Tadic, for Gilas. What's the People's Office? It's an DS lobby club. Or, various agencies; we know that in this budget we have recycling agencies, energy, energy savings and whatever agencies. These NGOs, although mostly paid from the outside, are certain to have a good share of those who continue to have an anogation in our budget. So that's our basic insistence, that the participation be abolished and that health care be free of charge. Now, when we talk about the fact that there's no better solution for a health fund unless there's a larger number of employees and that's a fact. The number of employees is reduced from time to time. In the morning, MPs spoke, it seems to me Shormaz, about how we now have direct investments in Serbia, and others have said so. You know what absurd is. Direct investment includes all these sales, so I remember, in the DOS in 2002-2003, when the tobacco industry in Nis was sold, we had a direct investment of 600m euros. What kind of direct investment is that when it went into consumption? An investment is when foreigners invest their capital, when they build a factory, when they hire people. It's a direct investment. We had such privatisation in Serbia, where these investments mostly went into consumption, and on the other hand, we know from experience that all these sales were in some way robbery. There are no companies sold in Serbia, and the value of investors is paid from seven to 10 years. All the experiences are in favor of that. A good investment for the state is if the investment is paid in seven to 10 years. Everything that's been sold here paid off to strangers and everyone else who's been shopping for a year or two. Almost all fellow MPs insist on it, and Minister and Government, everyone thinks that an accent should be placed when it comes to primary health care, to make the most of the money. Under the current financial plan of the Institute, 29 billion are scheduled for primary health care, 45 for stationary treatment. The nation is sick, many sick. It is a process and certainly cannot at this time primary health care to have priority over tertiary and secondary treatment. When we talk about this separation, and I think that's one of the most important things, today is the participation of health insurance funds in the gross social product of 6.5%. At the time of the 1998 sanctions, we had a share of health insurance funds relative to the gross social product 6.6. So it's not enough for health care. Finally, in some explanation of the Minister, the Ministry, concerning this amendment, it is said that these are the experiences of the modern world and that in all countries of the modern world, developed countries and countries in transition, there are participations everywhere. We don't always have to look at this modern, modern and rich world. I repeat, in America, 50 million people don't have a health book, 30 million children. So, all these experiences aren't good, they're about this developed world. In the end, I was just talking about the resolution that is necessary in the Serbian Parliament, and about the temporary release of President Slobodan Milosevic, for the necessary treatment. I can only point out once again that the initiative was signed by 25,000 citizens in two days. It is the best evidence of the regularity of our president Milosevic's policy, which he led during the 1990s.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22997	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, pay attention, two business notices, with consequences. The first announcement is that, under Article 85(4), we will be working today until the end of the item on the agenda at 18 hours. In accordance with Article 62(3) of the Financial Regulation, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Administrative Board of the National Assembly, proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda of this session point 6a – Proposal for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kostic, the judge of the Municipal Court in Paracina. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 122, against one, it did not vote 10 out of 133 MPs. The National Assembly accepted this proposal. We're going to 6a. Point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON APPROVAL OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE COURT OF GORAN KOSTIC, THE COURT OF THE COURT IN PARAĆIN For this item of the agenda, you have received a proposal for a decision authorising the detention of Goran Kostic, the Judge of the Municipal Court in Paracin, who has submitted the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since everyone knows the lengths of time, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the president of the Administrative Board want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since there were no registered speakers, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search, does the proposing's representative want to give the final word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. Since we have carried out a single search on the proposal for a decision, pursuant to Article 162 paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Friday 25th of November 2005 as the day for voting. We'll approach the vote immediately, at 3:46 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the approval of the detention of Goran Kostic, judge of the Municipal Court in Paracino. For 127, against one, did not vote five out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Goran Kostic, the judge of the Municipal Court in Paracino. I thank all present Members of the People for their outstanding responsibility in doing my job. Thank you very much. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SPECIFIC ASSESSMENT (resuming in particular) Mr. Paja Momchilov, Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22998	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm reporting on a replica for the presentation of my distinguished predecessor from the SPS, just to be clear. I don't compromise, I don't have the opposite attitudes, but to be absolutely clear what the SRS stands for. We absolutely believe that primary health care must have primate. There can't be this situation, where we have a lot of sick people, the reason that more money is being singled out in the Tertiary and Secondary Protection Fund, because it's against all the principles that Europe and the whole world stands for today. In particular, it is necessary to respect this in countries that do not have sufficient material resources. That's what he insists on. Let's just remind ourselves, we're a member of the World Health Organization. As a member of this World Health Organization, where we were once frozen membership, you know that for what reason, we were obliged to bring a document on the objectives and measures of health policy according to the "Health for All in the 21st Century". That's not what Serbia did. The big question is why Serbia didn't do it. Since she has not done so, she has set goals, in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and the UN, then we are in this situation where we are. As a major newspaper in the ministry's proposal, when it comes to other laws, it talks about achieving health care at the primary, secondary and tertiary level. That's not controversial. However, the objective of this division should be not to allocate funds like this, but to make an effective system where most of the needs are achieved at the primary level and most of the money is given. If we had acted on postulates that the whole world and the World Health Organization and that we respected Article 15, I would not quote that I don't bother most people who don't care about this, then we were obliged to define primarily preventive measures at the primary level of health care and to respect, to carry out first promotional health promotion measures. It's the beginning, the alpha and the omega of every good and elaborated reform. So I'm just distracting, this is really unacceptable to have this kind of mess in the O.R. and indifference. I don't blame colleagues who don't care about this, it's their right, I resent the chairman for not establishing order in the O.R., although he has all the mechanisms through the Rules of Procedure in his hands. So, to be clear, the SRS thinks that the retro system is not well done, that primary health care is not well done, that this has to be done in a different way. And one of the reasons that happened is that we didn't do the basic task given to us by the World Health Organization - to bring our policy and measures in line with the document that I quoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u22999	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23000	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, no matter what the marble is in the O.R., you know that I have a long-standing parliamentary experience and in order to always say what I want and tell the public I can't be distracted by a situation where many colleagues stand outside their benches or have a fine chat about topics that have nothing to do with this. Participation should be very careful, Mr. Minister, because it, just like many other monsters of the new age after the five-octobaric coup, revolution as you called it, has caused public anxiety and uncertainty not only for our oldest population, but for people who have problems every day. It can be young people, it can be a routine checkup. I'll give it to you now through a few examples. So, we don't argue as a party, which is what Mr. Paja Momchilov said, that primary health care is something that the state should work on much more, but if you're talking about primary health care, which means one monetary framework, one construction from the isolation of each individual, from farmers, through workers, to university professors, then he knows, and you know as a minister, what it is on the list of primary services by doctors for which you should have absolute convenience in that sense that you don't wait in line, that you don't have to pay it, and that these prices are not astronomical. In fact, this is about, Mr. Minister, that the prices of certain participations have increased, better said savagely, as even a unilateral act by the director of the hospital centre in Kragujevac and much more than in Belgrade and other parts of Serbia. I have a really devastating patient epilogue in front of me, because the gentleman who asked for help at the Kragujevac Clinical Hospital Center died, and in primary, or secondary health care, asking to be helped and to lead to the condition that he would have had surgery done before, he unfortunately died a month and a half ago. He's from a very poor family, like most families in Serbia. He paid 100 dinars, then 320 dinars, then 1,000 dinars, then 450 dinars, then 10 dinars again, 450 dinars, 450, 510 dinars, 450, 600 dinars, 120 dinars, 2,000 dinars, and all at Mr. Minister's moment, these are all sorts of participations, so now I don't read you what each of these cost, while he was waiting, and he was in the hospital, to perform his surgery. He, as a patient who was given the opportunity to stay at the Kragujeva clinical center for this, could not possibly from the condition in which he was, from the hospital bed, to pay for one single dinar. It's his to have pajamas, if they don't give him that hospitalie, that he has slippers, that someone possibly from his friends, from relatives in visiting time, bring him juice or something he needs; he doesn't need to have, while he's in the hospital, the money is on him. This is a clean robbery and kidnapping, and unfortunately here with a tragic outcome, because he didn't wait for his surgery to take place. I told you today, we're not asking the state to do some magic wand much more, and I don't know how many, hundreds of billion euros it creates for health care, but there are many ways and methods, you saw, in the budget projection, so that it could be added to the fund. There are many ways to lower these prices of services to create the possibility that people, those who sit and wait at home what will happen to them, come and conduct checks. You know what people think? All the changes they have in their system, and unfortunately today the balance is like that, and your fellow interns say so, and, above all, cardiologists are suffering from heart attacks or angina pectoris today, people who are in 1962, 1963, think they're leaving and they're doing a full checkup, they have to start from the lab. Laboratory report, it's primary health care, costs at least 860 dinars. Then it has to go to the ultrasound of the heart, so God forbid that the heart disease has taken on some larger dimensions, so that it has to be done to it, and now we have it in Kragujevac, coronarography, so it can't come to order... And in many Serbian cities that patients and those from the interior, far away from Nis, and Kragujevac, and Belgrade, and Kamenica and Novi Sad, they sit and wait. If they don't sit and wait, because they know their lives hang in the balance, that's what they pay big. Who knows what that price is and what all the machinations are doing to get such a critical patient a place in the hospital, so he can have a coronaryography done to him, and to make him look like a routine operation. Because of this and because we have criticised the regulation of participations for all, with prices that are uncertain in the coming year, the financial year, because it has never taken into account the inflation rate, we have had the case as with administrative taxis, suddenly increases, doubles, triples, and how the citizen will then have basic health security and that he knows that the government will not take another step forward and prescribes such a high level of participation. People are really in a difficult situation, you should know that and follow, and you and your ministry, all these diseases of the new age, diseases that plague young people, people at their best. On the other hand, they're dragged away from asking for primary, secondary health care, and then going into surgery, because they know they don't have the money, they're letting go of the case, and they're looking at God to help them somehow. Therefore, we believe that this must be very cautious and that citizens because they are so poor do not have the opportunity to pay this high price. We will talk later, Professor Poscurica and our parliamentary group, about those prices that apply at the Kragujeva Clinical Centre, which are certainly much further away from individual clinical centres in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23001	According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23002	I reported to the Rules of Procedure because the dignity of this home has been re-injured. That's the 104 I point to, but don't think it has anything to do with the previous speakers. The dignity of this home is once again insulted by the side effects outside this home, by trying to influence the politics of this country and the politics of the institutions of this state, both by those whom the people have chosen, and by those who emerge from this home. So again Bogoljub Karic rides. We have a situation again that we had a few months ago, I guess it always happens when this individual, his family, friends, whose friendship buys money, estimates that there is an opportunity to create chaos in this country, to endanger the work of the institutions of the system, and consequently to question the most important things that the vast majority in this House advocates as our battle for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, one who tries to compromise the work of parliament by thinking that this is a political stock exchange, not the National Assembly, and that MPs can be bought as slaves, and I guess the age of slavery has passed... If that's how it can work, then it's over with parliamentary democracy in Serbia. If we end up with parliamentary democracy in Serbia, we end up with Serbia as a state, because parliamentary democracy is the only defence of everything that is sacred to us right now. We don't have a better weapon than that. Whoever tries to attack and threaten the constitutional order, the institutions of this state thus assumes on himself the responsibility of destroying everything that we have sacredly and endangering the interests of our offspring in this space. I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to strongly oppose it. How do we know this happened? Just by having information from the MPs who have been contacted. Mr. Karic, his brothers, close relatives and dear friends, whose friendship is based on money, must know that any contact they make cannot go undetected, that we know about him. They did so before the holiday and during the great Serbian glory of Saint Arangel. How can they not be ashamed to do that? Don't they know that the first time these impressions get together and when we get information about it, someone's gonna go out for this pay phone and say it? It's a very important thing. So we're not saying this by heart. When it's voting day, then the vote will show who they are, and I hope they don't, because the common feature of all of these people we got this information from is that they didn't agree to it and that's what their size is, that's what the size of this home is. I appeal to all MPs to protect this country and not allow the side-to-side financial coups of various political no-one in this country to disrupt political reality that can exclusively simplify from the elections and from the decisions of this country whose composition is determined by the elections. Please stick to it and thus protect the state unity on very important issues. We can be both the government and the opposition. The opposition can try to bring down the government, it's its legitimate right. The government is trying to explain to the citizens what it is doing, however successful it is, and we who support the government as much as we have space to do it, the opposition is trying to prove that we're not doing well, and that's this democratic colothe that will go on for all the next years and decades in this country, if it's luck, but if someone tries to buy people in parliament, we have to prevent all the forces. We will thus, among other things, show that we are responsible people and that we represent in the right way the interests of the citizens who chose us, theirs and our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23003	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. I didn't realize that it refers to other people's private lives, but my obligation is, as someone who represents the National Assembly, to speak out loud and clear once again at the moment when we just confirmed high responsibility, all of you, I don't know who belongs to which party every moment, it doesn't matter, you're all here to work by law and no one can blackmail us. When the MPs were called, as they had just been asked to prevent something suggesting corruption, all responded urgently, so will the future. No one can take interest, money, or blackmail to believe that MPs will act beyond the law. I just received an amazing request where a certain number of people are proposing a legal proposal to split it free of charge, claims that they have the right to pass the law urgently on the agenda, and you only decide on the agenda before the start of each session, and are willing to take a whole series of measures to destabilize the country to blackmail, because several hundred thousand signed that they want to get something free, which is all legitimate, and they believe that the Assembly must pass all procedures and laws to discuss it urgently. You recalled that this assembly has brought to the vote by all responsible MPs a resolution that addresses the question of how the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, which is the priority of this country and I thank you for that, and imagine just that a million citizens from some part of the territory sign a request that the Assembly pass all legal procedures urgently decide to deprive some part of the territory. Would we give in to these blackmails? Before any blackmail, this assembly will not give in, and it is my obligation to defend, on behalf of all of you, representatives and positions and opposition, the right to be the same for all, whether it is individual interest or interest hundreds of thousands anyway, the law must be the same for all of us, and thank you for being unique in this. The word has been made by MP Alexander Vukic, a replica to Mr Aligrudić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, you know what the Serbian Radical Party thinks of Bogoljub Karic and it is no secret – all the worst, and the political party. There are a few questions and several illogicalities that I want to talk about, and I think it's worth listening to, Mr. Aligrudic. The first question is, was anyone trying to bribe an MP? If it is, why isn't there a court case? Why isn't he being prosecuted, since I'm guessing it's not a small amount of money for the crime of bribery? Why don't we have a corruption crime established by our 2002 law? Why don't you say the name and the last name of the person who did it, is someone ashamed to say it happened, or did someone else have a role to play? I say what I'm saying, perfectly logical and perfectly in accordance with the law. No one can do it, and it doesn't matter if Karic, Maric, Jaric, whatever you want, is someone's name, because there's a lot of money, he attacked us, he bribes us, and we won't say, these are the honorable people who refused, and they can't exactly go out for a pay phone and say that. Everyone in the O.R. will agree that it doesn't make much sense. I have no doubt there are truths there. I don't doubt it, because some people are in a hurry because of the decline in ratings and it's in a hurry for DS and Karic, logically, because both of them are in a hurry and they're in a hurry. Because we don't understand Tadic anymore; the day before yesterday they said that the only thing that matters to them is the election, and today in the paper I see they won't vote, I don't understand what's going on anymore. Another thing that is very important for this high home is the key: whoever decided to do something other than his ideas, past morals, besides what Serbian citizens have decided in any way, unfortunately thanks to the Constitutional Court's decisions, you cannot prevent it. You can, by your political declaration, express your political stance that opposes it and you have done it. There is nothing we can do besides that because the one who goes out will say – this Toma Nikolic, who is heard every day with Voja Seselj twice, or I don't know this Vukic, who is heard every day with him, they represent not the best of Seselj, but I who have never heard him on the phone in my life, and I have seen him twice in my life, I am the one who represents his interests. What do you do after that? After that, your TV... Please, will you let me finish? For God's sake, where did you get the right to speak? So, then your television waits, and they say, "Yeah, did you see, they left Seselj there, this one would defend him. The one who's never heard from him in his life, because the Army barely remembers what it is when we tell him. It's the same case with you, it's the same case in other parliamentary groups. Why don't you say your name and last name? We say the name and the last name, so whoever happens, or when it happens, there's no big secrets, there's no big philosophy, let those MPs come out and say, if there were attempts at bribery, let them prosecute. The moment someone tries to bribe me like that, I'll go out and say it happened. I think it's something that makes sense. As far as this story is concerned, we have indicated to you in the debate on Kosovo and Metohija that something very dangerous and serious is being prepared. The story of the euro regions, everyone has the right to advocate what they want, but the story goes towards secession between Kosovo and Metohija. Once again, I should like to express the position of the Serbian Radical Party on this important issue, as I see Covic and Karic insist on this story on the euro region, and a little bit of Tadic is approaching them, well, and their chief representative here, Mr. Omerovic. So, the bottom line is the next one. We are interested in making Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of Serbia. What regions and what will be, the citizens will decide afterwards, and this is what the citizens have decided is an integral part of Serbia. So, not those who have accepted the offer of a shopping list in advance and want to work against our country in such a way, and that's much more important than anything else here. One more thing, I have a question for you, Mr. Aligrudic, what is the salary of the senior advisor at the "Mobtel" Bogoljub Karic? That's 234,000 euros for you, I find it hard to calculate in dinars, because my son counts much better, he's very talented in mathematics, it's hard for me to multiply and calculate. It's on the monthly level, Mr. Aligrudic. Why did I say this? I'm not like some people envious, a man has a right, it's not envy and depravity, if that's his, and I'm asking you which of the state authorities, which one of you, Mr. Aligrudic, has allowed him to receive 120,000 euros a month from this part of the state? As far as I know, the President of the Republic has 1,300 euros in salary, the Prime Minister, something like that, so I'm asking you who allowed this to be 100 times more income than the state's share, than the citizens of Serbia? Who's to blame? Where'd he get the money to buy the MPs? He didn't fall from the sky, he didn't print it, he fell from there. Stop it. As far as Serbian radicals are concerned, we are against every form of corruption, but it must be clear, transparent and come out in public. As for the political declaration, we think it's a shame for anyone who tries to buy an MP in any way, that it's a big, terrible shame, that whoever does it once more should never get any votes in Serbia again. Why don't we even get so excited when they do this to us, and we're not trying to do it to someone else? Have you ever come across a case where we're asking someone to move into our MPs' club? There's no case. I'm done, Mr. President. I'll tell you again, then, the 1994 event. At that time, MP of the People's Party Momir Vojvodic, a prominent Serbian writer from Montenegro, expressed his desire when the National Symposium coalition, when Novak Kilibarda changed religion, nationality and all, overnight remembered that he was no longer a Serb, so he became a Montenegrin, and that follower of the "red Croatian" Savic Markovic Štadimija, Sekula Drljevic, therefore of the Ustasha movement. Then Momir Vojvodić comes to Voja Seselj and says – Vojo, I am a Serb and cannot change the faith or people as Kilibarda, I want to be a member of the SRS parliamentary group. The military tells him – you can, Momir, and it's a great honor for the SRS, but resign because you've been elected on the National Party list, that is, the People's Syllabics. In the next election, I guarantee you a seat in the Federal Assembly of the time. Mr. Vojvodić did not accept it at that time, several years later he became a member of the SRS, but we never took anyone's mandate and should learn it all, and those who had previously taken as those from the G17, and those who had previously taken from the DS. I'm surprised that you don't respond to the attacks of the DS, and I don't know what it's about and what the deal is between you, when they say, so three mandates disputed, so the disputed Djokovic wanted to steal from you, and you don't answer them—people, you're thieves, you wanted to steal our mandate, for God's sake. I don't understand what's going on in this country. They now have the right to this mandate that was a man on someone else's list. What are we talking about here? We agree with that, but the next time you want to say this, come out, say your name and last name, come out and tell me who it is, how many, where and where it's offered, because it's serious crimes. These are serious crimes and it is no longer something for Serbian citizens to have fun. This would exclude, therefore, those who may have been said to have been eager to flirt with anyone because of their party position or not. I don't know who you're talking about right now, nor do I want to guess. None of the SRS MPs have informed him that anyone has contacted him, I would say in the last few months, but in any case, we've had the opportunity to see here and she's for the worst conviction. I ask you to act in accordance with the law and just answer us what people in the state are, the state authorities who gave themselves the right to grant someone 120,000 euros a month, because I think that's a key question. Once again, Mr. Aligrudic, Serbian citizens see it all and as far as it goes, I think it's one of the things that shouldn't concern you. You should be concerned about what is the situation in the economy, what about Kosovo and Metohija, what about the big problem of corruption, crime in Serbia, and this is one of the things that negatively reflects both Karic's rating and the ratings of some others, because people don't like those who do so in the National Assembly and who try to humiliate it, to destroy it in every way. This National Assembly will exist after all of us. There will be a National Assembly after us, after our children, after our grandchildren, there will be a National Assembly while Serbia is. I am sure that we will manage to arrange with such a stand-up by all parliamentary groups that everyone has the kind of attitude that Serbian radicals have had since the beginning of the issue. When we manage to settle this, then neither bad Constitutional Court nor no Constitutional Court, headed by party leader Slobodan Vučetic, will be able to destroy either the will of the voters or the will of the MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23005	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Thank you all for your responsibility. Of course, the Assembly adopts laws, cannot be blackmailed and the laws must be implemented, but the Assembly is not in charge of law enforcement. The People's MP Smiljanic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23006	Dear MPs, I'm part of Kostunica's approach words when we chose him as prime minister. When we chose him as prime minister, he said this -- when it comes to privatisation, it must be fair, it must be in favour of small shareholders and in favour of the state. All unfair privatisations will be reconsidered. I trusted him. Unfortunately, nothing has changed. In the municipality of Apatin, although I have advocated for a year to change the Law on Agricultural Land, to do what the Slovenians, Croats, turned social land into state land and there is no sale of land to tycoons, unfortunately, with us it is continued. We lived in Apatino that one of the best combinations in Vojvodina was sold to us. You know how it was sold - since there are three members in the tender commission, the Assembly of the Municipality was not for sale, two of ours left and then the voice of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture voted to sell "Delti" our agricultural combination and was sold. It was the basic holder of the stability of the city of Apatino. Another situation: we have a resort in Silba; dozens of lawyers and representatives came to offer me a commission to sell this resort on Silba, which has 13,000 square meters and two 300 beds, and I didn't want it and I asked for a proper assessment. After a few months, the state appears, on behalf of the municipality of Apatin, to sell Silba. The Property Directorate sells Silba, our resort, sells it on behalf of us, for our account, without our consent. Therefore, please do not expect us to listen and not to object to any further indulging of social property. I say Aligrudic, when the EPS is sold and the NIS business is done. So don't think that we can't say anything against the government, because Karic immediately bought us. You can't store state property without simply opposing the opinion of local self-government. You have to respect that opinion. Apatine was in first place for three years. Therefore, the fight is not just for those of us who support, who should vote for everything you propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23007	Thank you, MPs vote on their beliefs. The word has Mr. Dacic, then Mr. Aligrudic, the replica. The key is what we were talking about. No one can blackmail or try to blackmail the National Assembly. The congregation makes laws. They'll work under the law, and the authorities have to enforce the laws. I expect that your initiative will come on the agenda very soon to pass the agricultural land law and we are all at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23008	I think the central issue here is what we agreed on at the meeting of the heads of Parliament's clubs with you, Mr. President, which is to launch an initiative to prevent the stock exchange after the parliamentary elections. We are today, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, faced with one great phenomenon, which of course is very possible in the world, but very rare, because any MP and councilman who dared to do so would find himself on a pillar of shame. It has become normal for the MPs to change political parties and to do so at the speed of the clock. This also seems to be the case in the Republic Parliament, and even more so at the level of municipalities, at the level of cities, etc. The most important thing is to prevent theft and kidnapping of the electoral will of citizens. It is obvious that today MPs can be affected by the famous decision of the DoS Constitutional Court that the mandate belongs to MPs, not to political parties who participated in the elections. Serbia's constitution doesn't say that. Serbia's constitution says the MP has the right to his own opinion, but that does not mean that the MP has the right to change the political party after the end of the elections, especially that he has the right to form other parliamentary clubs. I would remind you that Branislav Ivkovic formed his political party and his parliamentary club in this particular hall of the National Assembly because those who were in power at the time enabled him, because it was necessary to hold the government. We have a political phenomenon, which is that people today in Serbia don't have to participate at all in the elections without forming a government. Today, it is theoretically possible that whoever has money or any other influence simply forms a government in Serbia independent of political parties. Justifications can always be found. You have a situation similar to that of some other parties that, for example, the party Bogoljub Karic represents that he prefers Slobodan Milosevic to the SPS. I would remind the citizens, even those who have dilemmas or have forgotten, that at the time of the arrest of the same Slobodan Milosevic, there was a direct transmission on BK TV with "The Last Act". Why are voices needed? Votes are needed in parliament, votes are needed in the elections, of course not to bring down the government. It doesn't matter whether the government collapses or not, but it's important to keep its own profits, its own property, and it's embarrassing to participate in all this. I understand that someone changes their political attitude, but I don't understand that political attitude is an economic category. Anyway, once again, so we don't doubt everyone now, there's a time when all of this is gonna be best seen, I think we should do everything we can to prevent it from happening in legislation. What is allowed by law and by scratching the Constitutional Court of Serbia is abused in the worst possible way. We are witnessing that, especially in the face of important political decisions, such as the adoption of budgets, budget rebalances or the adoption of important political laws, it is going to form some new parliamentary clubs or what is even more modern, to stand out as some independent MPs, etc. The arguments are different, but they're all the same and they come down to the same. This isn't about whether or not someone will vote for the government. It is about whether MPs will work in the interest of citizens, in the interest of the political party that proposed them or in the interest of those who are at a certain point ready to put it in the economic category. I am sure that all MPs, and especially SPS MPs who have had enough negative experience in the past term of the Republic's parliament, will do as we have done so far, which means that we will vote in the way that the citizens of Serbia are interested and of course what the SPS's views are. I ask the President to have this agreement that we had as soon as possible operationalise; the change of the electoral law is the solution to all of this. I don't know why we're waiting, or we all want to be part of the MPs' stock exchange. We have to prevent this from becoming a stock market, otherwise citizens don't need to participate in the election. The election will be a farce. The elections decide who rules Serbia on behalf of those citizens. We then cheat on these citizens in the elections, because after a few days we say that we no longer support the parties on whose list we were on, because that party has laid out some of its original principles and we advocate some other political parties that may not have existed at the time. Had these parties been worth it, if these parties had their political power, they would have certainly participated in the elections. Elections don't happen in the Assembly. Citizens choose and no one here has the right to change the election will of citizens. That is why, Mr President, please, all political parties here, the government and the opposition, because then the Democratic Party took part in that meeting, and we have all concluded together that it is necessary to create legislation that would prevent the kidnapping and theft of parliamentary mandates, i.e. the fraud of citizens who, after the elections, experience the fact that committees and MPs are moving into different political options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23009	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, then Albianic. Here you go. Personal calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23010	Yes, it is. So, dear Mr. Smiljanic, you should never have thought for a moment that what I was saying in connection with the breach of the Rules of Procedure had been referred to as an objection to the political position which any of us here could have and who could take, according to his own opinion, in relation to the subject he was talking about or in relation to what might be the subject of this home's work. So we haven't thought about it for a moment. I reacted, as I said at the outset, to the information we have and what's going on outside of this house, so how someone's trying to influence people out of this house. And if it wasn't just that and it wasn't the flat-rates, when I was already called to talk about concrete things, it also says what we have for fact, and whenever we reacted in this way, it turned out that it was true in the next days, even when there was no realisation of what Mr. Karic and his group were trying to do. Then those people who were contacted with caution, but slowly, the next few days, they appeared and discovered what had happened, and that's known to the public, at least when it came to those people we talked about earlier. When that was not the case, these people were revealed by showing themselves in the work of the National Assembly in an explicit and clear way. I remind you that the SDP with its two MPs in this House openly approached Bogoljub Karic in the coalition and that Mr Bogoljub Karic spoke openly in the media, Dragomir, Bogoljub, the whole team, spoke openly in the media that it is natural and normal for people to approach them and that they expect it from members of the parliamentary groups of all political parties in parliament. So we're talking here about an argument that rests on facts that are undeniable, to the recognition of those who do, and to praise that it's good for the state. We did not talk about whether in this way someone is affecting the political attitudes of certain people in this House, it is completely out of discussion. That's where we understand each other. As for the name, of course it's good and it's logical to ask who it was at a given time, but I'll remind you it's a criminal offense. If that is the case, I agree with those who spoke before, I agree with the need to deal with the competent state authorities, and they will deal with it. And those who are entertained by it, and will be happy to have fun, therefore, it is possible that they will be behind bars the next day. So that's the thing. Of course, the one called, he will react in these two different ways that I spoke of today. Logically, it is in place, so to speak, but you know very well, and practice has shown that all things have been revealed very quickly and that I have never once been in vain and gone out for nothing for this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23011	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Albianic. Please, the party, for God's sake, has been mentioned in the presentation of the previous speaker, and then Mr. Vukic, who was also mentioned in person. Be kind, so it's the president's duty to hear and to react, I understand completely, we have to keep an eye on, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's the law for this assembly. MPs also, because they are chosen to pass laws and to influence laws, represent the interests of their political parties, but certainly vote in line with what the citizens were when they were elected, but vote and are aware that there are different votes and different responsibilities. This is about self-respect, and the job of the president is to honor the agreements that the representatives of the people have reached and to insist that it is always under the law and in this case and in the Rules of Procedure and thus defends the National Assembly, which is exactly what I am doing. Are you happy, Mr. Perry? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23012	Mr. President, I have answered for the word for the dignity of the National Assembly, while at the same time supporting Milos Aligrudic and the heads of Parliament for everything they have said about this speaker, and to raise the dignity of the National Assembly. We also had a chance at a meeting and after the meeting to declare certain things, but this shopping relationship happened or at least there was a transfer to Karic after announcements in the paper about the purchase of MPs. This congregation has the right not to participate in such political mud and to express its position. We don't agree to that. This congregation has raised dignity and a way of working, and we will continue to work on it. We have agreed to bring amendments and amendments to the law and that position should be supported. So we're not going to agree in that way, and that's the point, because here we have the right to publicly express what we're convincing each other, what we're hearing each other, and in that sense, I think that this voice that's going to be transmitted to the press tomorrow has its own meaning and meaning. What is important and mentioned is that the competent state authorities should act. Of course, if it's about buying, bribery, corruption, the police have to act legally and arrest and make those who do such a thing to the court respond. It's our voice to call on the authorities to do so. Then I said that I hoped that there would be no more wicked MPs in this congregation who would do such a thing. I still believe that there are no more wicked MPs, and I think that the statements of the heads of Parliament, that the feeling of the MPs at this point are saying that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23013	Thank you, Mr. Albianic, and all of you who support this basic rule, because you are on your skin, working day and night, and on Saturdays and Sundays and representing different political views to influence the laws, but, please, that is why you have voted so many laws that the competent authorities must act in accordance with the law. Here's your line, Mr. Wolfie. You are mentioned personally by Mr Aligrudić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23014	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after this declarative statement of several Members of the People, it would be a good idea to break this up and not think about it... And the only thing I can tell you is, I don't know about the others, it's quite certain that we can't wait for the election, we're not afraid of anyone, and at least God's name is Karic. And him, and the congregation majority, and the yellow ones, we'll clean everything up together with the political scene so that someone doesn't get the wrong impression after. On the other hand, I'm just looking for answers to some other questions, if there are any; if not, as far as we're concerned, we can continue to follow the laws and amendments. A few more findings, and then a few questions for representatives of the ruling majority. First of all, whoever does this has marked himself for life. Do you think any of these people anywhere but five people in the innermost environment are saying anything nice? As they pass by, people laugh at them in the street and say: "There is he who betrayed his party, and there is he who was chosen on this list, and then he went to the fifth list; there is he who was sold for money. I'm not ready to always say that the amount of money is what defines people, because that's why you say that all people are corrupt and that it's only the amount that determines them. I'm sure there are more than 90% of people in this National Assembly you can't talk to about it. I don't know if you've noticed, we meet every day, and when we're in the most difficult relationships and in the worst possible relationships we're talking about, and none of us are any of us MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, and neither of us are making a problem for me, because we know we have the same idea and we don't think about whether one of us is going to leave it, because we know that we have our own party that we're all looking at to do something good, not something bad. Those people who are ready for it, I don't know how to characterize them. It's just that these aren't people and they don't need to be taken special care of, they go to the dump of history however you turn. Now I have a question for you, Mr. Aligrudic, if you'd like to answer, since you didn't. I know it's not from this government, it's earlier, but I'm asking you, who in the Serbian state has made the decision that these people have 120,000 euros from people's money? I'm not asking for their private part, let them build towers on Mars and Venus, if I may. But monthly they have 120,000 euros from Serbian citizens? That's my question to you, Mr. Aligrudic, and you haven't answered that. You've had that TV attack on the pay raise of MPs, which is what we're attacking, because we're saying the people can't have this kind of income, and the MPs can't have that kind of pay. Then it comes to you to find yourself in a schizophrenic situation. You are attacked by TV Veran Matic, who kidnaps five or 10,000 euros per month to himself, or the one that takes from the state, I don't care about the private part, takes from the state, from the people 120,000 euros per month, individually, one man, how much the entire National Assembly or half of the National Assembly takes. And the wicked are the messengers of the people! What are you talking about? Who's responsible for that state part? I'm interested in the responsibility of you government why this is happening today. I am very happy that Mr. Smiljanic and SPS representatives speak this way. I just hope they're not other things, but that people really realize that it's not good to support the government. I'm sure and I expect there aren't any other games behind it. What's terribly important is that you explain to the people how you can prevent someone from taking huge people's money, taking incredible sums of state money, and then giving all of us lessons and slapping slaps that we're, like, like, like, like this or like that. Even once I heard it on a TV show, Dragomir Karic said, "Have you seen the suits Tom and Aca wore, see what suits they wear today?" We wear good suits, but everything we have can just fit, and it's a few of us together, in their one-month salary, and that's the one from the state, Mr. Aligrudic. This is what the people and citizens of Serbia need to understand, that it's their money, that it's their money, that it's not the money they made in one way or another, by smart transactions, and I don't know what. No, it's that it's directly from the back of our people. There's no answer to that. I only heard from this pay phone from Mike Vlaovic that there was an attempt. Isn't that right, Mr. Vlaovic? Yeah. I have not heard from anyone else that such a thing existed. There's talk in the towers, attack some two new radicals, attack some four of them from here, and I don't know everything. I trust every MP of the Serbian Radical Party, and yet someone who will say, "I'm better with Seselj," is that I've never really heard him in my life, but he trusts me more than Tommy, you, and I don't know who. It's all possible. We'll listen to it again for two days. Well, then what? (President: Time. In the end, all people will see that they are not human, but the bottom line is that we have to change the way we behave. It's got to end sometime. The only thing we agree on is that this manner has to change. I hope these G17s have repented of what they used to do, and with today's, again, Karicev. Was that the same thing with Mecca, Orlic and these, with what he completed in 11 days at Karic's school, of course, that genius Orlic. A genius like that in 11 days. I remember, and I'm not very smart, I'm not like him, I need a month and 11 days to do one exam, and in 11 days, 20 exams will be ready. That you don't believe what's possible in this country. They were your ministers, who still wanted to ban certain parties. And that occurred to them. (President: Time. I'm finishing up, Mr. President, sorry to bother you. Now I can leave you to Mr. Momchilov, Pokukuri, Blazic and the others. They're much better than I know all the problems of our health care and how in this sphere of social life to help. I'm just telling you one thing, for that you'll always have agreement, I'm sure of the Democratic Party, but before that you have to answer these questions, Mr. Aligrudic. You need to clearly and publicly go out with who these people are to whom that kind of pressure has been put. And I'm counting, because it's not pressure, it's bribery, so it's a crime of bribery, that it's clearly said then, and not to hide behind it, and to put a price on some MPs, so they say, I'm very important, so someone offered me 100 billion euros, trillion dollars, etc., and they're not worth 1% in the electoral body. Once again, I ask those MPs who do this to anyone, to come out and say it, because that is the only way we can make Serbia a normal country, and I am sure that our goal is to make Serbia a normal country. The only thing I can't agree on here with Mr. Aligrudic is that I don't think the election would be any tragedy. I think that we would get a more legitimate parliament, there would be one 25 MPs more from the Serbian Radical Party than it is today. That's what's safe and that's what Serbian citizens certainly look forward to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23015	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. We'll continue the debate on the amendments, because I think the citizens know very slowly now. So one is the law, one is the debate in principle, one is the debate in detail. So these are the proposals of the legislators that are being explained, and these people are voting on the laws. One of the government's budgets is the state's, one is the territory of the state. Of course no one here is afraid of choices, because everyone who came here came from the election, only today I heard the fear of coming to the assembly not past the elections, and even after the next election some other MPs will come. And the government and the election have no direct ties, because even in the case of the Government's fall, the National Assembly, since there is no one party that has an absolute majority, can choose another government. So one is the election, one is the government, one is the budget, one is the territory. It's clear to everyone. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Pocurica, and I'm sorry to keep you waiting. We continue to discuss the amendment to Article 48, where we have stopped. Thank you so much for your patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23016	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not always easy in many legislative projects to single out the points that represent the backdrop of the law, which are the source of a fundamental discrepancy of those who otherwise think to regulate the concept of legal regulation by this problem. Of course, apart from the participation mentioned, what we are against in this law is much more fundamental and much more specific, allowing us to talk about this, about participation, and the famous waiting list. When it comes to participation, I would like to in some way connect certain points concerning participation, in particular Article 45, in its first position, where it is reflected in a 100% sense, i.e. the Institute refunds the costs of treatment, testing and diagnostics at the primary level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23017	Please, gentlemen, a little quieter, to enable the speaker. This is the question, we were just talking about the dignity of the congregation and it's only respect that affects it. Please, I apologize on behalf of everyone who accidentally made this noise. Mr. Pocurica, I'll give you your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23018	You've returned time, but I don't have to return the story. We'll have a lot to say about it. Therefore, if we look at the first position in Article 45, which is participation, part that will not be financed by the fund, i.e. the institution of the mandatory payment, we see that many diagnostic and therapeutic procedures relating to the operation of the primary level and, in particular, the prevention of disease are foreseen by a 100% payment. I want to link it to the fact that Ms. Jovanovic presented the situation of a man who was being questioned at one of the clinic center departments in Kragujevac wanted to make a diagnosis. So, looking for a path to diagnosis, he had to pay a whole set of services, and that's about five to six thousand dinars. So that's one total colitision. Let us take an example when we do not want to determine whether PSA antigen study in patients with prostate pathway to primary prevention. It is, because if we find out in time we won't wait for a secondary and tertiary stage, when it will become malignancy. Today is the rule that these checks are actually being paid. If the prevention of any disease is not only contagious, and so it stands in attitude 1, then we need to determine, maybe that specialist doctor determines, I agree there, so they are consulting specialist services that will determine what anyone should do. So, the issue of participation is very questionable, very strange, it has to be done very carefully. Answering and giving the MP an explanation as to why the amendment rejects the legislator has listed the different countries in which it ranges from 10 per cent to 15 per cent in the income of the Health Protection Fund; it also said what is not in its legislative proposal, which is the fact that it takes care of the social status of those who pay for the participation. So, the gentleman we just mentioned, due to whom the chatter occurred in the Assembly, which has a salary of 150 000 euros, should not really be spared the participation of 20 dinar prescriptions or 20 dinar review. So, to introduce legal norms, not to wait, and indeed in the legal principle in the law itself, it is not stated that they will pay attention, but that they will eventually adapt and seek the most practical model, so as to say - relatively to the fact that anyone invests in their contribution, in proportion to his salary, the rate he sets out for social security and health insurance, he will have the right to be released or not be released from participation. It's a social component that we can't deprive ourselves of when we're looking at our condition, the environment in which we're all in, and we know that there's a very, very poor world, and there's a simple participation for a drug that's very expensive. What do we want to say next? When we analyze the list of medicines, which will be changed annually by the famous regulations by the expert commission that the minister has set, we will see that all medicines, let me say conditionally more valuable, more important, those who can, if given at the right time, be the measure of primary prevention, although treatment cannot be considered in a strict sense as a primary prevention, but it cannot be considered a primary prevention to be considered advice - don't smoke, don't go cold, don't go on short notice. Still, in primary prevention, we're going to vaccination, etc. So taking the medicine in primary prevention is a question of how much can be avoided, but anything that we do not do can be considered primary prevention. We can also talk speculatively about this proposal, because we have not seen a clear package of measures that goes into primary prevention, which will necessarily be free of charge. It may sometimes be done, but now we're talking about a position where the insurance company will pay as much as five percent of the mandatory cost that is incurred in the intensive care unit. Imagine the case that was praised earlier this afternoon, which happened at VMA – it is really important to welcome this venture of experts – how much does it cost for these three patients in intensive care today? And if they pay for it, God will give them all a good pass, they'll survive, maybe they won't even ask to pay, let them live, they've kept their heads. How much does it cost, how much an intensive care day in Kamenica or some cardiosurgery unit, neurosurgery? It's not that small, sometimes it extends, and it's five, ten, or fifteen days, because that's where the full cost of intensive care comes in, where there's also expendable material that's very often expensive. How much for surgery day in the O.R. with extracorporral circulation? How a sick person, and he's bound by the bill, to sit with him, to hold his hand, to pet him, to tell him fairy tales, because the law half consists of fairy tales, but fairy tales with a sad ending, there's a lot to be paid and to warn him that he's going to pay for something. If he wants to pay for something, who's gonna budget him how much he's gonna pay for it? It's not the same thing if he's going to operate, and in three days he's going out of intensive care, what are world trends, or, God forbid, the complications are going to stay and go on dialysis, so hemodiafiltration, so how much does it cost? Now he's going to pay it all well five percent, and next year the minister and commission are going to change and say -- that really didn't work out for us, who paid for it -- paid for it. The level of primary protection payments at the chosen doctor's level I see has been introduced to the level, which is, like, twenty percent. So that level of primary protection will be paid, plus lab services. They would have, if they had been uniquely introduced, been in all health homes the same. They're not, like, charged somewhere, like, ten dinars per analysis, like 15 or so, or something. It's a big list. So, one very great heterogeneity in the relationship expressed towards this very unfortunate member, which is mostly now participatory, which we wanted to draw very much attention to the minister and other legislators who participated with him in writing the law. So, if there is a possibility, if we have assurances that this will eventually be treated to the financial power of the individual or, as in our proposal, our insurance visa, where there are records of a file, where everyone who gave it knows how much money he gave and it is known as soon as it has its own incomes and that it will surely have to have a part in this concept that is provided as an emergency medical care; there is no dilemma and I only hope that worse than this would be if they made sure that the emergency medical assistance would also be paid. It was introduced to pay for sanitary transport, not emergency, and that's good, because many have abused synthetic transport. So, the doctor has to assess, but now it's a doctor's responsibility, whether it's urgent or not; sometimes at the level of the village, small cassabas, small provinces, why not in large cities, come to a large number -- you're the doctor's fault, you've found that my illness or condition isn't the subject of emergency intervention and now I have to pay for the sanity by some tariff. When I talk about why this member is distracting us, quite, about which we have ambivalent attitudes, there may be a better solution, if you already want participation, although we do not think the present moment is for people to be dragged into their pockets, especially speculative suggestions that are in Article 45 - top diagnostics, top-notch procedures, so now we're going to bring the commission to determine what's top-notch, how long it's going to take, so the shortest period of diagnostics that last, well this, and so on. Many, many lists of beautiful, many unspeakable. It's hard to tell how long a disease will last. You don't need to put him in jail. What's he doing now? The fund or the institute to conclude a contract with the healthcare provider that the appendage operation has to be completed in five days and he admits five days of expenses per 95 per cent, five per cent of the patient pays. What if the complications continue? He's not gonna lose his right next time at the competition, is he? I don't know why she's trying to go with something until she thinks it's real real life, practical work, it's really not that simple. It's just an example that Mrs. Jovanovic said for a moment that someone gives 5.5-6,000 dinars to determine that they have a disease to operate, and then an anesthesiologist comes along and says you're cardiologically bad, you can't operate. I guess that's what these institutions do. Perhaps in this law there will be a solution, perhaps the medical consultant will first examine anyone if it's for the hospital, to leave to question what some of the urinary disturbances or some kind of digestive disturbances are. If, God forbid, you have to operate, he writes that you can, that you don't pay for all this for nothing. Now people will start thinking like that. What does that mean? You've been lying down, you've done your job, and now you have to pay and go back home because you're not up for surgery. So, a lot of illogicalness, and our directors can't wait for this kind of law and funds, local, these regions, they can't wait to agree right away and write down as many participations as possible to the top, so whoever has the money will be treated, who doesn't have to see what's going to happen to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23019	Do any other MPs want a word? Here you go, Mr. Vukevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23020	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, article 48 that regulates participation regulates one part that will certainly create a lot of problems in the health care system. It is true that our health is in a difficult situation, and it is true that we as a society are in a difficult economic situation, it is also true that we do not see a very fast exit from this economic crisis, and of course it is true that citizens are also in a difficult situation. All together when it comes to the fact that health care, as well as other areas in this society, is in some way looking for a solution to solving everyday problems, and yet all in the interest of having something that lives maybe in some better light. However, what is expected of one law is that in some way, because there are some manipulations among our people, it is closer to regulating one area to prevent any speculation that can arise from an area that is not well regulated. I know from practice personally when a participation was introduced that wasn't so expensive, it seems to me that 10 dinars per review, so when all of this was added together, it didn't allow health care to do anything with that money, but it did create a lot of confusion and a lot of problems in practice. Even health workers, officials avoided charging for it. I don't know how it's going to be regulated now, whether it'll still give the clerks who work and the clerks the opportunity to charge someone, not to charge someone. I do not see it as a solution to this law, or closer to the one referred to in Article 48, but what in some ways creates confusion is that only some additional acts will make it more orderly, and of course it will be determined by the directors of health institutions in co-operation with the competent SIZ of health care. I think that's the problem, because this is one law that concerns every citizen individually. So if there is a minister in many other parts of power, I think this year-on-year participation should have been determined by the minister and it should have been unique throughout Serbia. It's not the only problem with this participation. I have here a whole range of services that sort of charge medical institutions, and then these extra-standard services, so waiting lists, and I don't want to say what house it is, I think they do all the houses and all the health institutions in Serbia, so it's said -- a patient who wants treatment from the waiting list. That's all that's going to create confusion, starting with this participation, waiting list, and I don't think the citizens of Serbia can handle it. It is said – a patient who wants treatment from the waiting list, a radical breast radiation of 9,000 dinars. So, a patient who wants treatment from the waiting list. So you're on the waiting list, 9,000 dinars that basket. It's participation. Preoperative breast 8,000 dinars, postoperative breast 6,000 dinars, concentrated breast 4,000, palitative breast 2,000 dinars, castration 1,000 dinars. Then right on the other side he says like this – a patient who wants treatment off the waiting list, means one who doesn't want to wait... Imagine if you have a man with cancer, malignancy. Who wants to wait and who would wait for us here? Nobody. Radical breast 93,000. So whoever has 93,000 dinars can come in to irradiate and have a chance to extend his life, and whoever doesn't have that money, he's gonna have to be on the waiting list again and pay that 9,000 dinar participation. So then he says: a preoperative breast of 82,000, a postoperative breast of 61,000 dinars, a concentrated breast of 39,000 dinars, a palitative breast of 18,000 dinars, a castration of 3,000 dinars. This is what creates great confusion and in some ways enables certain homes of health or health care institutions to regulate it from case to case. It will create a very big problem and, of course, it will not be popular with the citizens of Serbia, it will not be complete for those people who are sick, who are being treated and we will not be surprised if in the coming period mortality, and thus increased as it is now, is even greater. That's why I always advocate that when one law is made, and I consider it perfectly normal, that, of course, the law regulates it and that the law is precise. I think a big mistake has been made here in some way that it is left to be agreed for each calendar year in person, and according to the SIZ of health care and, of course, the directors of health care institutions. I'm just going to say one more example, bone metastases, painful bone metastases, 15,000 dinars. That's what it looks like when one house is being solved, or one man or one health care facility. You know what it means, don't give God to anyone, not to the greatest enemy, bone metastases. Imagine the pain, you can't solve it differently, you have to pay 15,000 dinars to get rid of the pain. It can only be done by one who has, and one who has no means will have to suffer to the death with pain, which, of course, we must admit, is not pleasant. For those reasons, I think a mistake has been made here because it is not precise. Of course, it's good when someone has money to pay extra insurance, it's okay, and of course they don't care how much participation they'll be, it'll pay the legal face for him and it's okay, but there's no question here for those people who have money because those people who have money have good connections. To be free to say, it is often mentioned that name, it may not make sense, but whether or not Mr. Miskovic needs a relationship now and whether he is concerned about this. No, he doesn't even need the money, 'cause everyone's gonna take him over the line. So, it's known, it's so, it's always been so, that some people who have opportunities go through the crowd. I've also received friends of mine, my cousins. That's what other doctors do, they do it everywhere in the world. It's easy for someone to have, but when it's the right law, it's not for those who have money, it's for all citizens. I think the problem will be for a large part of Serbian citizens who are really socially endangered and that this absolutely should have been decided closer; the minister should have determined each year how much this participation will be, and in this way I think that there will be abuse and that from place to place the price of certain services and participations will be different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23021	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 49th amendment was submitted by MP Toma Busetic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23022	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll be very brief. I was talking about participation in a previous member. The Socialist Party of Serbia advocates health care without participation, for healthcare that will be free of charge. Here we have proposed to delete this article in 49, and this is the logical consequence of our demands that health care be free of participation under Article 45, where participation is foreseen, from 5% for intensive care exposed operations up to 35% for other health services. We have proposed to delete this Article in 49, which says: "The healthcare provider is obliged to issue the insured person an account for the executed health care service containing information on the amount provided from the funding of the Republic Institute as the right of compulsory health insurance and the amount of participation paid by the insured person. "So, this pledge of ours is in principle, if we are in favour of free health care. We also advocate that there is no billing by the healthcare provider, although I can now say that we may not have suggested this best in the sense that an account should be issued, but when it comes to the costs that go to the health care agency's burden, and most often because people don't realize that all payments that are made individually, so according to the health insurance office, that payment is never enough for what, don't give God when a man hits, when he falls into the hospital, when he needs to be treated. In every system, and in our system, and even in this system, this principle of solidarity is very present, because every man, throughout his entire working century, is being paid into a register of institutions maybe several hundred thousand, agricultural producers perhaps several thousand, some other somewhere in between, and we know that certain operations and individual procedures cost several tens of thousands of euros at this time. So solidarity is always there. We stand for erasing and remain on it, although a better solution would be that anyone who is being treated has an account, that he knows how much his treatment costs in every health care facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23023	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23024	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, as before, should be supported, because you know the situation we are in, and we are aware of what conditions health workers are working on. Therefore, of course, as part of all this, the minister himself should, if they have not already made a strategy for the development of the health care itself, thus regulating the health situation, and this chaos, above all, preventing corruption in health care... We just heard from the previous speaker, and what are the prices of individual operations. Therefore, we really need to support these amendments. I hope that on the day of the vote these people from their party will also support these amendments. So our society gets a lot of it. I would use Mr. Minister's presence to ask a few questions about the health center in Lazarevec. I mean, first of all, we don't have surgeons in Lazarevec, so, for some small services, cuts or some fractures, people need to be driven to some point of the day and night to perform these petty services, so it would be good for you to sort it out in due course, since you've already visited the Lazarec municipality and you've seen the conditions being done. Something should be done in that direction. So it doesn't take much or two or three doctors, or surgeons to get an apartment. It's not that problem either, it has the terms of the Lazarec municipalities, because it's developed. Therefore, something should be done in that sense. Of course, we know that our country has such a situation, that we are a sick society and we should certainly support the initiative, you have heard, a large number of MPs for free treatment, especially when it comes to children and older people, and we should certainly keep in mind the systematic checks that should be carried out as before, so that this law does not exempt it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23025	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23026	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Veroljub Stevanovic submitted an amendment to Article 55 and he intervened, i.e. asked for an opinion 2 after the words "Republic Institute adopts an act establishing the prices of health services referred to in Article 45(1) - 4 of this law", the words "in co-operation with representatives of the professional organisation of private practice". One of our serious concerns about the whole legal set is the unfair position of private practice. It's our big grudge. So we'll talk about this later. We don't think that's right. If a man is talking about decentralisation, if I mention that SRS target again that decentralisation should bring a citizen to the centre of decision-making, then the best form of decentralisation of privatisation is privatisation. I don't know any better, especially for transition societies, and that's why you're suggesting that companies in transition do so. You see, if you see an agreement between the Institute, as provided for by law here, and health institutions, it is not right that the Institute itself adopts acts on terms, criteria, criteria, but rather a common act of the chamber, if it is to be established, and in particular you have to hear the voice of the private sector. If we move again as stated here in Article 55 - the price act is passed by the Institute, and the minister gives consent, if it is in the power of the Institute, or the Minister, what is the purpose of the contract, because it is no longer a negotiation. The contract can't go past the above. It's an imposition of will, not a treaty, and it's contrary to the reasons the minister advocates. So there's no such thing as in this law or mechanisms that have the influence of citizens. It is not right and it is not correct, especially towards the private sector, we will talk more about it in later reports, where we will prove that this is not respected in the way it would work, as it is in Europe and as it is in most countries in transition. What's interesting is, let me only be allowed one crackdown, Mr Dinkic said that one of the sources that we're going to use for public spending, he has just cited health care as a good example that 9,000 workers have quit, received fees and will no longer work in the healthcare service next year. He said one more thing, that two-thirds of those workers were under 50 years old. There's a problem. If we're talking about the picture in health care, why are these people leaving? People are extremely dissatisfied with their position in health care, and that is our reality to point to. That's why some people run to the private sector, because they're unhappy with the state of health. Yesterday and today, I received written requests from the union of a large Belgrade institution, asking for reception, a rebellion of 500 doctors. I didn't receive them, I said – when all this is over, I'll see you, I don't have time now. A major health institution and rebellion, I'm not going to name which institution, people are unhappy and be aware of that. There are good colleagues, competent, but there are certainly those who have studied for 17 years, and there are people who are absolutely incompetent. Now we pay the price of what happened, and what shouldn't have happened, for incompetent people who lead health care to these problems. What kind of situation is this when you have seven directors in a health care facility? That's the facility where three representative unions have been asking me to take them in for two weeks. Seven directors -- those are extras, salaries. I'm not saying that doctor's salary is something big, but it wasn't necessary before. And that burdens the system. I don't know why seven people should be directors, whether it's incompetence or any other reason, but it's a real situation. So it's privatisation that will make these irrationalities with seven directors and with everything that's going on... And look what they're writing to us from the health care home-- patients complain. What someone was saying about non-standard services, the health home in downtown Belgrade introduces as an extra standard laboratory control service and health control, something that is preventive medicine, and it charges. First, the director of health care in the newspaper says that patients don't care enough about their health, how in civilized countries they do it, and then she tells them – come, for 1,500 dinars we'll do it to you on Saturday. Where's the prevention? How in the middle of Belgrade to be implemented in such a way? So, who has the money will also have the prevention secured. There's a bunch of problems. That's why we stand for the private sector. So that's our motive. Irregularity and monopoly in public health are not good today for both health care and patients. Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic proposed an amendment for these very reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23027	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23028	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will ask you two questions on behalf of the user of the service. The doctors told the story, and I don't want to go into that part. First question: how can a student come up with a health certificate after 26 years of life, as you called it in the Bill of Law, in Article 142, paragraph 1. It doesn't apply to the amendment, I'm asking a question, but I won't have a chance to ask you that question later. You know that a student after 26 years can't apply to the labour market as long as he's a student. The reason I ask that question is that a fellow citizen sent a request three months ago to Minister Lalovic. Minister Lalovic declared himself incompetent and sent a request to your ministry. You didn't answer that request. So what was under the existing law. Please, if you are in a position to respond, based on new regulations, how are we going to allow these young people to come to the health book so they can contact the doctor in case of need and treatment? Secondly, the problem of rural households, I mentioned a lot from this pay phone, a very poor village from the area of Majdanpek in the Majdanpek municipality. That's why I gave you that nice card, and when you open the whole page, you'll see. A specific example: Grandpa Solanac, property is taken to grandfather, income from farm 11 dinars. In other villages you often have income from agriculture one dinar. In that household next to Grandpa Solunac lives the father of a disabled pensioner and mother of a housewife, son and sister-in-law who has three children, 13, 11 and 2 years old. So here are the main heroes of this young couple with three children, neither son nor daughter-in-law works. How do they get to the health book? They don't have any assets, they don't work, they're not insured on any other basis, they can't exercise their right to health care because they can't get a health book. That woman with the third child when she gave birth paid for lying in the hospital, giving birth, going out, couldn't get a health book on any basis. These poor rural households are not in a position to pay compulsory health insurance and compulsory pension-inhabitation insurance in terms of compulsory social security. They're not in a position to pay any money as income from agriculture. I expect your answer, within the meaning of Article 22(2), point 9) and point 3 and 4 of the proposed text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23029	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 56 and 56. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 56. It's a waiting list. The Serbian Radical Party is absolutely against any waiting list for many reasons. First of all, because the waiting list can generate corruption. We think that really, when there's a waiting list, there can always be control and control. In Article 56, it is defined that for certain types of health services provided by the means of compulsory health insurance and which are not urgent, the order of use may be determined, depending on the medical indications and the health status of the insured person. The General Act should be adopted by the Republic Institute, on the basis of the Minister's expert methodological instruction; the way in which healthcare is used may be beyond the waiting list, beyond the way it is done. The amendment was not accepted by the Government, above all that they defined as the possibility of introducing a waiting list for non-emergency medical services, depending on the medical indications and the health status of the insured person, as well as the date of reporting to the healthcare institution, but provided that the introduction of the waiting list is not an obligation but an option for which the Republic Institute would adopt a special act. It is said that the Republic Institute will manage available financial resources depending on their capabilities, primarily in the financial sphere, and on available facilities in health institutions. At the very end, it explains that such experiences are parallel countries, where much richer health systems of the most developed countries, as well as many countries in transition, know waiting lists as a way of achieving health insurance rights for certain types of health services. We've already defined that many countries don't have that waiting list. Today, Mr Nikolic set an example for Slovenia, since we often mention Slovenia, there is no waiting list there. Is that why many patients, while waiting for that list, cannot get real medical care? What the Ministry of Health should take into account is that it enables hospitals, i.e. health institutions, to be able to provide the right healthcare, or service, to have adequate capacities, or technical opportunities when instruments and apparatus are involved and thus prevents a waiting list at all. What is safe and evident is that waiting lists are the source and generator of corruption and bring citizens with low incomes into an unequal position. First of all, it is thought of a smaller population that is much richer, and I'm sure none of the MPs would want to be discriminated against, because I suppose no one would want to. The question is, what about the most sensitive category of people, where are the measures to prevent and combat health problems, as well as life-threatening conditions? If the Republic Institute adopts acts in accordance with the rules laying down the content, scope and standard of health care rights... The World Bank has defined that the situation in Serbian health is expensive, that corruption is present and that it is inaccessible to Serbian citizens. If all this is to be solved by the Republic Health Insurance Office, which we have already defined as having done all the procurement by means of a direct guessing method in last 2004 alone, so no public advertising and regular tendering procedures. This also provided expensive equipment and materials for as much as seven million euros, i.e. 570 million dinars. That's why we can't trust the Republic Health Insurance Service to do it properly. If we observe the World Bank report, when it comes to health corruption, Serbia was in 106th place in 2003. So when it comes to corruption, health care is the area people say has the most corruption. There were 28.1% of respondents, and World Bank reports say the health sector is the epicenter of financial corruption in Serbia. Corruption, in any case, is primarily due to the absence of a clear division between the state and the private sector, because many patients are able to pay twice the same service: once in the hospital and once in the private doctor's office. Corruption, in any case, is not systematically and intentionally larger than in other sectors where it is represented, and is primarily thought of by the police, the judiciary and education, but corruption is enough to represent one of the greatest factors of the inability to rationalise the health system, and we all strive to do so. He doesn't even have the proper control of the social security fund. A common example of health corruption is birth, which is often paid for; gynecologist follows a pregnant woman in a private office, and she is later given birth in a health care institution because she has better conditions, so even up to a thousand euros for birth and for full pregnancy monitoring are paid somewhere. I will remind you that the health system does not function in an optimal way, primarily because of the poor information system, the unquality monitoring of health indicators, frequent changes in complete management teams in health institutions; primary health care is entirely on the side, poor prevention, as well as promotion of a healthy lifestyle. First of all, because of the situation of patients and corruption that is evident, because corruption and crime are our most severe diseases that we face every day and which we need to fight vigorously. And that many better, adequate conditions are needed in the fight not only against corruption but also for adequate conditions, I will give only two examples that have come to the Health Committee. A patient with complete documentation, and it's really big, with all the papers, says that after his work injury in 2002 he was transferred to an orthopedic hospital in Bor. This is where a warrant is issued for the purchase of incendiary prosthetics, which his work organization is getting for him. Normally, with the exclusive request of a certain colleague who has an obligation to take over that prosthesis and bring it in. She also spoke to our health minister for the opinion that she could complete her treatment, and there was no response, because at the reception of Minister Milosavljevic, the ministry said the minister was not receiving parties. Refunding of funds for built-in endoprothesis is not allowed even to an organisation where a person works and is legally entitled to do so. She spoke to the Health Insurance Office with a request to provide treatment abroad, where she was rejected. She filed criminal charges for unconscious treatment, the extension due to counterfeits, number 182/03, the Zaječar Municipal Court, and especially what was at the end of 2003, no action has been taken since then. It was then found that there were companies, and above all Implant and Agrattrade, through which the prosthetics, phantom firms, and it is confirmed that it was smuggling by doctors. It was later confirmed that it was organised crime, and according to the municipality's public prosecutor in Zajecar, a large number of doctors in Serbia are in the chain. Here you have complete documentation, from treatment through the report to the district attorney and everything that was in that case was meant to stand. Finally, it is necessary for the Ministry of Health to do much to change conditions in institutions, not only in the fight against corruption, because it is not only necessary to set a certain waiting list, but also for conditions in existing health institutions to be adequate. The gentleman who delivered the letter began with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through the National Assembly and the Ministry of Health, and also with the Republic Health Insurance Institute, was treated at the Institute of Labour Medicine and Work Protection, the Hospital for Professional Diseases and Toxicology. So he was actually in a reference facility, and above all for his ability assessment. The experience he had there is indeed going almost to complete disappointment and the infidelity that things that are not relevant to the present moment happen in such a reference health care institution in the Republic. In any case, the gentleman does not ask it to be a hotel of some category with a few stars, but rather a mode of work, i.e. a worklessness, where there is a complete absence of any organisation in a health institution, with inexplicable and irrational spending of the health fund's resources. During one working day, he was unable to carry out any medical examinations of those who were assigned to him, i.e. the patient's stay is unnecessary, and all Serbian citizens must pay. Within six days of his stay in the facility, he only conducted two specialist examinations, the average of the facility is that one doctor performs 3.2 daily examinations, which is really devastating to our public and we have to admit it. So, not only was she not adequate healthcare, but as far as the symptoms he listed at the reception were concerned, and when it came to high tension, colleagues did not try to measure his tension for all that time. It is not necessary to make a waiting list, but rather to use these capacities that we have, when it comes to healthcare professionals and health services, rationally and to be much better and better quality supervision by the health minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23031	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23032	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the explanation of Dr Cvetanovic, with the examples he cited, is really more than convincing and I'm surprised, Minister, that you did not accept this amendment, because you saw how bad the waiting list can be: on the one hand, because of the opening of the way to corruption and, on the other hand, because of the endangerment of people's lives and health. It seems scary to me when I hear someone's having heart problems, and it's supposed to wait three, four months to definitely determine what kind of illness they're dealing with. I'm always afraid that someone can die before a definitive diagnosis is known that a normal person can be treated. You see, in this written part of Mr Cvetanovic's reasoning, it is written that waiting lists are a source and a generator of corruption and bringing low-income citizens into an unequal position with a narrow layer of rich citizens. So we allow rich people in this area to have the advantage and abuse their wealth, we don't go in the way we do. We Serbian radicals have the view that every law must be such that if it is not possible to completely prevent it then to minimise possible corruption and abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, about an hour ago when this was talked about, you heard what it means when someone has a lot of money, when someone's 7,000 euros in national money spends a day. Of course, I'm talking about Bogoljub Karic. The fact that he has a lot of money he uses to threaten parliamentary democracy in Serbia, to buy what he allows to call himself a MP, because he who is indeed a MP in the original sense cannot be bought. For he knows who chose him, and why he is the messenger of the people. He who allows himself to be bought, of course, is one human scum and moral freak, the same as the one who buys it. That is why I will repeat what is heard here, that it would be good if there are those that Bogoljub Karic is squandering with these people's money, because it is the money of Serbian citizens, he takes 7,000 euros a day to say that the state prosecutor would do what is in accordance with his powers, which means that Bogoljub Karic would finally answer for these criminal acts. Minister, this has been a crackdown just to show on this truly scary case what bad law means and to convince you to vote for the amendment of Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23033	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23034	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would really like to return to the topic, because Article 56 is talking about the waiting list. Whether we want to admit it or not, this is really the first time a health insurance law registers the notion of a waiting list, and otherwise, in real life, we have it years ago. I don't know why we should think about every newspaper if it was a source of corruption. I don't see it that way, I've never experienced it, and I don't want to think about it that way, because I guess we should believe in our healthcare professionals, in our health associates, and believe that they're really going to treat people honestly, by their conscience and duty, because they must have defined themselves for that call because they're human. It's the only way I want to believe it. First of all, the law says that these waiting lists can be, but they don't have to be. Let's take it to be. I want to give you an example that it was. I've been working for 30 years at the Kikind Health Center. There's one part of the clinical biochemistry lab where the reagents are very expensive. There was always one part of the patients who could absolutely get all the services in the lab and one part where people who wanted to find out their findings, and the doctor thought that medical indication was not necessary, if they didn't want to wait for the waiting list, were charged the service as some kind of extra standard, in one case only, and that was when it was hormonal thyroid status. Of course, anyone who needed it, whether he was detained at the hospital, whether it was necessary to do an emergency surgical intervention, regardless of the number, some bonus of free services we were setting, was given a free service, and no one, thank God, had any consequences, which means that doctors correctly assessed who was urgent and not urgent. I'd say the waiting list that happens to be is the doctor's responsibility. Let's not be afraid of the doctor's responsibility. It's a good thing we're going to adopt law on medical chambers these days, so let's see if this can be the subject of corruption. He can't. I don't want to believe it, I'm creeping out of these everyday headlines in our newspaper -- who took 150 euros, who took so many euros. Even for what, unfortunately, the daily life has made us, that patients - insurance companies, after the adoption of this law, will have to pay something, if money routes are known, there is no place for corruption. If all of this is paid at the health care institutions or wherever it is designated, there is no place for corruption. Then, and if it was, I'm truly sorry about that, that one of the patients was taking and putting it in his pocket, believe me, the patients say let them know what the price is, will be paid. This country must care for all those who for any reason do not have the opportunity to be treated, as in cases that a colleague has just stated. There's still a lot of cases like this for each of us. So, I've always been, as a representative of the SPS, for both humanity and solidarity. It's the only thing that defined me to do this call, and that's how I want to believe that everyone else is a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23035	Mr. Momchilov, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23036	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am reporting on the replica of my colleague Dacin's previous presentation, where she says our argument that this generation of corruption is not understandable to her. Whether we want to or not, we are honored that two to four percent of gross national income goes to health corruption. That's what the World Bank director, who sits here in Belgrade, says and announces it in the "NIN" as of September 1st. In May, in front of the UN Committee in Geneva, two French, independent researchers, who refer, where a representative of our state community sits, data and a document that has this name - Corruption, the cause of human rights violations in Serbia-Montenegro. It doesn't experience denials there, it's reality. I don't want to talk about other research. I don't want to go out of my way to judge doctors. We understand why there is, we don't support, but we understand. When you have the pay you have, then you'll have the corruption. There's got to be a salary for healthcare professionals. I don't mind if the judges have 1,000 euros. Why do they have one? So we won't be corrupt. So, you pay them in advance, not what he did and what he tried, they can, and we do the bloody work and we do it for this country and the community, it can be mathematically shown by the parameters of morbidity and mortality. Despite 10 years of sanctions, despite the war, parameters aren't bad. And the World Bank says – despite the facts, they have good parameters when measuring with other countries in the environment. Not to mention the parameters. Therefore, corruption exists, the main cause is low incomes. When he admits it, he admits it. When he doesn't admit it, he doesn't admit it. What I would say is, how is the waiting list a source of corruption? Nice. If you have a waiting list, and look at the second position – the Republic Institute brings a general act that determines species, standards, assessment criteria, so they sit there and doctors, and they will certainly be consultants. Look, just look at some other sublegal act, I wouldn't read it to you right now, so you can see what it looks like and how much it's possible for abuse to happen. You run the Committee of Surveys on the theft of children, unimaginable, monstrosity. Why do you lead when you believe in doctors? What are you running this committee? That's the question now. We don't have any more terrible things to do than steal a child from your parents. There's a debate going on. It's all possible. When there's a waiting list, there's another thing. I end up with this, so I don't abuse your patience. There's a way to avoid it. I'll do it in one of the next speeches and prove to you that these lists are not necessary both in present and present conditions. We'll show you where to get that money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23037	The People's Messenger of the Lifesaver Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23038	I would like to advertise Rules of Procedure, Article 104. So maybe we didn't get along well, maybe we did, and I'm really always trying to make the most of it right after this pay phone. Mr. Momchilov, I'm not saying that health care salaries are high, but people with affinities to corruption won't save a 1,000-euro salary. You set an example just now, I'll give you the argument that we had at 3:30. Judges have 1,000 euros in advance, no matter how much they work and how much they cost, and here we have removed immunity to one judge for a 1,000-euro bribe. So it's not safe to be protected from corruption. I'm in favour of being absolutely paid in health care as much as they belong to us, but above all, I advocate that patients have adequate health care. That's all I can stand from here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23039	MP Rajko Baralic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23040	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, this amendment, which the Serbian Radical Party has submitted, may have a different argument, and when it comes to this, we can accept one and the other arguments, of course, on the condition that we imitate our understanding of this issue and our political opinion, personal knowledge of this issue, etc. The People's Messengers will declare this with a vote. I'll take the risk, though, because I'm not a health care worker, so I'm a little bit of a health care lawyer here today. I have a better opinion of doctors in Serbia, health workers and medical associates than the generally resented opinion that this is the most corrupt profession in the country. Of course, there are ugly and good people in every profession, that there are people who are prone to corruption, that there are people who can cash in other people's accidents and there are such people, and they're dead, and I'm sorry to say that in this house. But, please, we take our children to the doctor, we take our old parents, we treat ourselves there, we advise them, they're sworn to the Hippocrates. I know perfectly well that these people work when everyone else is resting. Nurses have been working on a quadruple work system for 30 years: two first, two second, two third, two available. No weekends, no holidays, no birthdays for kids, no this, no that, etc. Doctors have a standing by, they're on duty, they've got a whole series of obligations that other people don't have. So let the state authorities do everything they do, let them arrest criminals, but let's not make a call to the Serbian population and from this pay phone – try to bribe healthcare professionals and doctors to solve your problem faster. It is a bad message, health care in Serbia does not deserve such a message and such an assessment. Once again at risk of being completely different and misunderstood, I want to say that it is an honorable profession and that in this profession, as in other professions, there are people who will always abuse other people's suffering, but that's a question of morality, relationships to the system of values and many other issues, but it's a job for state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23041	Replica, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23042	I'm reporting for the presentation of a previous esteemed colleague, Col. Baralic, who said we're not calling from this pay phone to bribery. Who called? Mrs. Dacin? She spoke earlier. I didn't call. How did you hear that? Did someone tell you that, did they deceive you? I didn't invite anyone. I said, we don't support corruption. And speaking of that corruption, please, I'm a doctor, that you went out to say hello. I'm sorry that there are no more people, no more citizens, the users of health services to talk about this, I'm truly sorry, but mostly we doctors need to talk and that's the flaw of this debate. I also understand why, at a pace like this when we work, it's as irregular as if war conditions are. We'll work tomorrow, we'll probably work on Sunday too; people, disaster elemental, is it l's a state of war when this Parliament works like this? No, you know what the reason is. To go back to corruption. "Kurir", a vow of silence, doctors, to make my position clear to you and to be clear to you by the Serbian Radical Party, that you have no illusion that we are calling for corruption. It's not an investigation and a trial is over and we're not going to plead on these cases, but I'm going to comment on this and this way of writing this press. I got a call from a reporter on the board the other day asking for a statement. My colleagues heard. I said -- I don't do chickening, go after those involved in the tenders, go chase the one you mentioned here, and who got this debate cut off about this law. Don't chase after a martyr and an unfortunate man who may have taken 150 euros for the first time. It's embarrassing and embarrassing. It's clear to us, it's not, that others are telling us that health care is the greatest corruption. It's kind of a haired opinion. Corruption is universal for society as a whole. As many sectors as there are in other sectors there may be in health care, perhaps even slightly less, since you say that we are bound by the Hippocratic oath and that there are probably a lot of honest people. It's not a dispute, but I'm telling you one thing: the source of corruption is in low incomes and you should be aware of that. You can't do this job responsible, being on duty at night, waking up on a health defender, on a bumper coming to a new person's world without a better material status. That's the problem. It generates corruption. It is responsible for those who lead society and the state to raise personal incomes, not to allow certain measures possible corruption. I told you, our views will only be on the trail of what Europe is saying. In your latest EU report, read what you read on page 16 when it comes to laws, that you also have corrupt laws. That's the reality, that's what we're talking about. We don't attack doctors, doctors are martyrs, who bloodyly and with their lives paid tribute to this people during the sanctions and during the war and provided him with as much survival as possible. I don't see that there's any improvement in the last five years. It does not need any reward, but that the material status corresponds with the free situation, with inclusion in Europe, especially since human and medical facilities are fully preserved.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23043	Do any of the other parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milomir Dunjic submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 57 and 57. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Milomir Dunjic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23044	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, yesterday one of the MPs from this group said that the MPs of the SRS are submitting to all the laws of the amendment, and it says, it is deleted. If so, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we just want to make our contribution if we can improve this law. Mr. Minister at one of the Health Committees, which I belong to, he said - you Serbian radicals will not vote on the principle of law, and you want to make amendments, I don't understand you. Mr. Minister, precisely because we know that this law will probably be voted by the will of the majority, we certainly won't vote for it, but we're trying to make our contribution as much as you want to agree to it. I submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to the title and article 57, which is almost identical as the amendment of my esteemed colleague, Mr Cvetanovic. I don't want to repeat myself in that part. We simply believe that the waiting list anywhere is not good, or even waiting for coal, which is happening in my village. They always use privileges, corruption and bribery. We believe, regardless of the opinion of other colleagues, that this waiting list should probably wait some other time, some better time, and that now, Mr. Minister, you should respect these amendments and abolish the waiting list. Who knows that maybe tomorrow some Karic won't come and buy that waiting list. If he has money, he can do it, and whoever doesn't, who won't come near his party, will probably welcome him in the other world. Mr. Minister, you've been partly guilty since October 5th, and here's why. Your crisis headquarters may have destroyed the best executives we've ever had. However, they weren't members of your party, but you brought in some other directors. I'm not saying they're not experts, on the contrary, but they're certainly not good directors. What would I ask you, Mr. Minister, to take care of it, and you can do it. You know how many years our studies take, how many years of our training, our specialization, and not to say what else, but one specialist with 10-15 years of training, with 40 or 50 patients on average, has a salary of 375 euros, and one doctor of general medicine somewhere around 280. Doesn't it seem to you, Mr. Minister, that this is the beginning of corruption? These colleagues of ours have children, they might want to send them to winter at least to the bathroom or to Tara, but they can't. Maybe it's when a man slows down, when someone offers him, he sees a euro, that's how it starts and goes on. So maybe that's the first part where it starts and corruption starts in health care. No wonder our ratings have been dropping lately, yelling at doctors, and I'm saying over 85% of doctors are honest and honest people. I speak for myself, perhaps, on behalf of my colleagues, on behalf of many others who do not belong to our party. I know, but here, maybe that's one of the main reasons. Think in the government, in the Ministry. If Mr. Dinkic says we have so many surpluses in the budget, then let him single out the money and start doing something in health care. They're not, Minister, in health care only buildings, painting buildings or equipment. The organization means a lot more. If I tell you that in my region, and you were a month ago, we have a Shkodar on Bojana, you know, City Hospital in Zrenjanin with eight floors, though, you didn't start it, and here's 12 years we're paying for a self-dependence and I can no longer convince... And I have to admit, that I'm some community president, I can't convince people to start paying for their own contribution, especially, maybe it's sad that I'm saying it like that, which is what I'm yelling at, I don't know why. You have banned some instructions for Belgrade, for VMA, simply the Zrenjanin fund does not give us instructions and people go and pay out of their own pocket. There's something I'd like to tell you, Mr. Minister, about public procurement. I think there's something going on here. Maybe it's not your fault. It's the Republic Health Insurance Office and I'm gonna start... My friend Momchilov started a new doctor's prescription this morning. So when I worked in the health care department, we got prescriptions in June 2002, with a serial number, with a branch code, informationally well followed the prescription of drugs... In fact, a session held at the Republic Institute suddenly fills some point for new recipes. Until then, recipes were made at another company, specifically "Stilos", cost 0.23 dinars. These new recipes that have now come out cost money at the 0.55 dinar Banknote Office. You probably know that. That's a huge difference, about 16.5 million, and it's known that about 50 million recipes should be printed. Here, take a little bill. Secondly, they say new health books and forms, applications and insurance logs will be introduced, so that the same institution at high prices will print the same papers. Finally, the question arises as to why the new health book is being printed, when you yourself said that you would have to introduce so-called health magnets anyway. Smart card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23045	Thank you, Mr. Dunjic. Mr Krasic answered first. There are five minutes left on this amendment, so make a deal. I don't care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23046	Without intending to spoil this medical debate over their law, I will take the opportunity to point to some fundamental errors of this concept to regulate this matter with two laws. You found something in article 82 as a constitutional basis for these laws. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, while forgetting probably two or three provisions governing human rights. Officially-legal you could place these two texts in one health insurance and health care law, and you could separate them into two separate laws, but you made a mistake when you split this matter into two parts. Now let me show you a little bit where you're wrong and why you've been inducing this kind of debate. Article 1 of the Health Insurance Act, and here you attributed the content of this law - the rights in the field of health insurance of employees, organisations and financing of compulsory health insurance and other issues of importance to the health system. Then move to the health care law. Again in Article 1, where you speak of the content and subject matter of this law, you have the right and obligations of patients. So this is where the insurance company came in the position of being a patient; if the insurance company is something objective, the patient here is something concrete. If you want to let go of the minister, I speak very clearly, I'm always understood, because I'm very good at this stuff. So, with health care, the insurance company became a patient. He came to the doctor, turned to some request, and if he turned to a request, he probably as a patient had some rights. You see, Mr. Minister, those who wrote you the law, the Roman five in the health care law, wrote – human rights and values in health care and patients' rights. The real patients are human rights, so you know. Every citizen has the right to health care and I only remind you of those provisions concerning health insurance and are likely to be important issues of this technical aspect of health care, which is the obligation of the employer and the employee to invest funds, as well as the rights of mothers, pregnant women, children and old people to adequate health care from public income. When it's put in some context, then your waiting list can't be the right insurance on the basis of health insurance, it's the right of the patient, because the patient is the one who came to the doctor, so the doctor realized that there was a situation that had these conditions that it was a certain kind of health care service that was provided from the means of compulsory insurance, so there's no rush, so there's no capacity, so there's got to be a list. You've confused your health insurance rights and insurance rights. I've only taken one example from you. Be assured that both laws are full of these unprincipled solutions. This is a failed mix. So if you've translated something from abroad, then you've made a mistake. That's one thing. Secondly, this is the technical aspect of providing health care, therefore, waiting lists, not health insurance rights, and what is the right as you say in health insurance – you ensure yourself, so you will wait. He doesn't have that right. Mr. Minister, the basic problem with our health insurance (so I'm not going to health care, but I'm going to health insurance) is not since yesterday, that problem is a long time ago. So, it's that you and this or some other law don't solve a very characteristic situation that a man for 35 years is working, and no one asks him if he wants to invest, but the Constitution and the law stop him and his employer on the ground, which makes his profits, pays, separates into health insurance, and he goes to a doctor for the first time in his life and comes to the galatias of this conflict of yours that lasts for days. How you, not specifically you, but you from Serbia's health, can be a 65-year-old man and 35-year-old intern who first came to the doctor because they did something else at that point that he got sick to say -- you know, you have to pay for the participation. He's going to ask you a question - please, sir, so 35 years away from me, my money you've been educated, my money's been made medical institutions, what am I supposed to pay for more? I've never spent a penny in my life in health, and you've never spent a penny in my life, and I... (President: Time. President, please don't get me wrong... (President: It's okay, Mr. Krasic, I'm just telling you it's over and I'm allowing you, of course, based on the importance you pointed out. This may take another five or six minutes, but I have no intention of being pretentious because I am not a health care professional. I don't know how to treat things or why they're being treated. (President: Sure, we're all patients, first of all. ) I have to say something from the point of view of the Constitution and from the point of view of one fact that I wrote this social programme of the Serbian Radical Party, so I had to look at that part of health insurance and find some comparative experiences from France, America, Germany, this Kaiser and this French with a personal card, etc. In this system of yours that you're maintaining, you're just trying to improve something that's been around us for a long time. Look, you're trying to improve it, but I'm telling you -- at the beginning of the 21st century, that system is incorrigible. So all the states realized that this system was incorrigible. France left 20 years ago with an insurance card. So this is why, if you are, and now we are all for the market economy, there is no market economy if private property is not sacred. This will work to untreated communists and those who belong to the Socialist International, this company in yellow, and their spare company, the Karic brothers, will act against them illogically, they will use it for some demagogy both against you and against the state, etc. You know it's not normal for someone to make 7,000 euros a day. Narcotics don't have that kind of profit. Then, because of the unprincipled resolution of basic, fundamental issues of health insurance and health care, we are here being persecuted and tortured about participation, about waiting lists, and not order further. We haven't gotten to professional training yet, to specialization, and that'll probably be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow when this law is. So, progress, so how late we are, etc. It all comes from the basic reason, which is the principle of things that need to be based on health insurance and health care in our country are not solved. Let me just go back to this waiting list. By the logic of things, the waiting list is something that occurs at that stage when a doctor sees a patient, not when the state sees an insurance guy, because the insurance guy doesn't know if he's going to go to some waiting list. If he's guaranteed a waiting list, please excuse me, it's no right. It's a violation of health insurance rights. So, a lot of things need to be cleared, to be transferred from this law to this one where the patient's rights are. Health insurance guarantees some rights. Those rights are on an objective level, next to a treatment right... Okay, I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23047	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other parliamentary group want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 141 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Mr. Vukovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23048	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, have submitted an amendment to Article 141. The proposal for a health insurance law, which reads – Article 141 after Article 3 adds a new position 4 which reads: "With the chosen physician, chosen by the insurance professional, and on the basis of the request of the selected doctor, the Republic Institute concludes a health care contract. For insurance who are treated with a service provider who does not have a contract with the Republic Institute, the Institute shall re-fund funds from compulsory health insurance, in accordance with Article 45 of this Act, and at the cost of health care in accordance with Article 55 of this Act." The existing positions 4 and 5 become points 5 and 6. With this amendment of mine, I wanted it to be even, i.e. to be an equal position for the state and private health sector. In fact, it has been said that the citizen has the right to choose a doctor himself, and as far as I think it is not true, because in an explanation for not accepting the amendments, it is said that "it is not possible to leave insurance companies with complete freedom in the previous selection of selected doctors". It is further said – there is an obligation by the organisation to carry out compulsory health insurance to select previously selected doctors, and only afterwards can the insurance companies choose their own doctor from the list. That looks like a dictatorship to me, because if a citizen doesn't want any doctors on that list, what's left? So, he can't exercise his right to a "personally elected doctor", but he has to decide once again by the dictatorship for one of the doctors that someone else has chosen for him. Serbia's constitution says in one of its members that these two categories, i.e. State and private sector. If the Constitution says they are equal, you cannot introduce inequality and discrimination. That's why I think you should adopt my amendment and correct that irregularity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23049	Thank you, Mr. Vukovic. It's a word from the People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23050	Dear colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Vukovic said briefly, which is why we believe this should be fixed. Enough of the proposal, it will be seen now and below, sent by other parliamentary groups, even from the DSS as I recall, I don't know if Mr Lune has withdrawn his amendment or not, so from the SPO parliamentary group. It is one of the key positions, which legalizes until the end of discrimination, such as waiting lists absolutely systematically introduced social inequality - if someone goes on the waiting list, so if they pay, they can be removed from that list. In a country like ours, with the parameters I quoted in the morning, I wouldn't repeat them now, it's certainly something that causes social inequality. We think there is absolutely no reason why the private sector should not be equated with the state, since two points of the Constitution clearly state that the properties are equal, the property relations that exist. However, our Constitution also speaks of a social property which, thank God, should not exist, but should only be two, state and private. What kind of choice is that, octrossed, when you give the list and it tells you to choose, and you don't give a man a chance to go to a private doctor. The answer was that it would disrupt the system, lead to system collapse and that it was not good. Why, if the compensation is the same as it is prescribed by some pricer who also applies to a state institution. We can't talk about the equality of the private sector until a private doctor can be chosen freely from a citizen. We can't talk about equality, and that's what the Constitution requires, if these two sectors can't write recipes under the same conditions, a private doctor like the one in the state service. We can't talk about equality if a private doctor can't, say, work in primary health care to point to a higher territorial level, to a secondary and therapeutic level, under the same conditions as a doctor at a state institution. That should have been tried at least, and then we would have said, yes, you've taken the reform path. We don't know until we get there, but you're on your way. You didn't do it. This country is no longer socialist and communist. This is a capitalist state. We're restructured the entire economy. You are ordered to restructure the public sector in accordance with European principles. It hasn't been done in five years. Now the citizens of Serbia are suffering because of it. I'll give you an example. You say, "Well, you have now worked for demagogue reasons against the waiting list. Let's just say, waiting lists are hips and that was a big problem. You've seen what these hips do, how they get it without a tender. Three million arrivals were paid to one company for nothing. It's Galenika. Galenika is a company that is in the jurisdiction of the Fund, which we should believe will honorably do all the work, related to the money of our citizens. I don't know how far she's been brought. No final account adopted. How is that possible? How is it possible that no final account has been adopted? I'm asking now the finance minister, how can the Galenika have an unsigned final account? You know what happened to Galenic, what Mr. Panic was doing with Galenic. He used the conjuncture when the Americans were giving the Russians money to turn the battle poison factories into pharmaceuticals, take that money and open up Russian factories, so he came here. What did he do? He sold our brand, Galenika's right for "oligated" Russia; what went on here, what had a big pass, he sold it. I don't want to say that we lost in arbitration and that we're obliged to pay 50 million euros. I don't know how long it's been, how it's going to be paid, and what debt you put it in. I know that someone in this country paid 800,000 lawyers to lead us to this outcome; $800,000 is a respectable sum. What I have here in my hand is the contract sent to me by Galenika workers, who is a certain Mr. Stipcic, former director of this institution, who is a laboratory by profession, so he could lead during the DOS government of Galenika, and he had a salary of 3,500 euros, and we doctors need to be satisfied that next year, in addition to the inflation of 17%, we get an increase of 25%, and we have the kind of salary we have. Here's a contract where you sell the "Galenica" right to treat "pentrexil" and "palitrex" called "pentrexil" and "palitrex". Galenika had long-standing co-operation with the Bristol Myers firm, and she obtained raw materials and packed these drugs. The rights of Bristol Myers have passed, it's now a generic, and anyone can produce these drugs and baptize them with his own name and sell them as they please. We buy raw materials for pentrexil and palitrex not from Bristol Myers more, but through another company, means a second hand. It's normal that it's more expensive. What can we do at this point? We could buy cheap raw materials, very high quality, in India and China. That's where the pharmaceutical industry center is today. And we could simply give up those names. Why, let it be called, I said here, penthraxil and let the other one call it whatever you want and we'll solve the problem. You paid three million dollars just to use that name needlessly. There's a list of countries that did it, only countries in transition, a few of them, they cheated on some of them for pentrexil, but they didn't make it for palatrex. I don't want to read them. Here's your suspended waiting list with these three million hips and some more stent. There are opportunities and it could have been without talking about a bunch of other irrationalities. It's all that makes us tell you that these solutions are not good for you, they're not socially sustainable, they're going against the interests of people's health. If I were you, Mr. Minister, I'd imagine very well what I would do with this law. This law is not good, it is harmful to the health of this people. The way health policy is run and how it generates the adoption of such a bad law. That's our remark. We have to fight corruption, not chasing poor doctors, and we'll be more able to tell you when it comes to chambers, because the chambers are pictured as an additional inquisition to doctors. The court will chase us, the police will chase us, and now we need to start chasing each other and condemning our own mistakes. I think it's gonna be hard to get past, and the whole concept, because I don't think it's a good idea. The basic reason for all of this again is that unprofessional people, consultants, to say to strangers, have given you bad solutions, unquality. Secondly, what I think is the reason, exactly the speed you're passing these laws, and I know why you couldn't pass those laws so far and because there's no consensus in health care and professional organisations. The question is, how can you insist on this? You don't flaunt with us, you occasionally flaunt our distinguished colleagues from other parliamentary groups. You don't deny what we say. These are already so crowded and what you've been told. We asked what happened to Torlak, why no money was invested in Torlak, there was a question, I showed you a financial plan adopted by your consulting houses from abroad that you brought and that they gave a year and a half and two years ago and everything was said, and how Torlak stood on his feet and became a profit-making company. Last year 240,000 doses of vaccines were dumped and destroyed, endotoxin, I know it's 240, newspapers were written, you didn't deny it. I said, everything I say is in the paper, and it's not denied. It's possible there's other numbers. I'm asking you, why is the Agency holding 20,000 doses this year, why did she send it to Germany for a test, why am I saying that the antigen isn't enough vaccine, why is that going to cost us extra? Because it's not invested, because the centrifuges are 50 years old and Torlak can't deliver more and better vaccines. We've asked you a bunch of questions. There's no answer. You'll answer in the end. I hope you will. What's central, this law, this big, that your MPs have cut short for you, and we find that a little strange... (President: Time. I'm done. It's kind of weird for them to cut your law. They say it's not well imagined. And it's one of us, so come on, but it's so short. Think carefully about what the people will get by this law, and we don't see it going to be good and we're absolutely sure this isn't reform law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23051	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. Any other MPs' group after the amendment? No, I don't. ) All that were parliamentary questions, please, be formulated tomorrow morning to deliver to the minister. On Article 146, MP Veroljub Stevanovic submitted the amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Predrag Mijailović Lune.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23052	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, it is perfectly understandable to me why the Ministry has decided to give up the concept of a family doctor, because logically, we currently do not have a frame and that would be laying the groundwork, but without further possibility of an upgrade. So we couldn't even make the foundations in this respect, so it's clear to me that we have to move on to that concept later, as we prepare the personnel and the organization. That's why I can accept the concept of the chosen doctor this time. I'd only make one remark here and a suggestion that it should be complemented. For the sake of general rationalization, I find it unfair for an intern physician, because we have a lot of such doctors and in health homes, not to be selected doctors. I know that a special regulation can say that the minister can also determine in certain cases that an intern specialist becomes a selected doctor. We'll all agree here, and I don't think there's any counterargument here, that a specialist doctor is an intern who is the most educated, has the highest education in medicine and can provide the most, and therefore, at the very least refer to additional and unnecessary tests, and in any case, rationalization will be made. So please consider this amendment. I gave the same amendment, but I withdrew it because I support Mr. Veroljub and Mr. Jovanovic's amendment. That's the only reason we don't have to argue, so I hope we agree on that until the end of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23053	Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23054	Dear colleagues and colleagues, are we discussing the 146th Amendment... (President: Yes, we're talking 146) We've given a similar amendment. The amendment is not identical with the amendment of Mr. Lunet and the others they gave. We wanted to avoid a confusion. The problem will also arise in the health care law, and it says who is the chosen doctor, here it is now quoted as "medical doctor or doctor medical specialist in the field of general medicine, i.e. specialist in medicine work". It's illogical for us for the chosen doctor to be a specialist in medical work. Mr. Lune explained that it gave up the concept of a family doctor. We don't think it's right. If reform is not to go after a majority solution in most countries of Europe, then fine. If you don't respect the declaration that regulates it, fine. Afterwards, under 2) – Doctor of pediatric medicine, doctor of gynecology, doctor of dentistry. Then the following are the views that we wanted to erase – especially from this attitude, the chosen doctor may also be a doctor of medicine of other specialities, under conditions prescribed by the minister under the law governing health care. Why the minister to prescribe who it will be, we don't understand it at all. Well, then, you're also derivating what you wrote ahead, if that's okay with you. So you can do it anyway, so you don't know what you can do. Then he says – the insured person may only have one selected doctor from the medical branches listed in paragraph 1. If it had been written "from different branches," we would have realized that you could also take a gynecologist, and a pediatrician, and a doctor of general practice, and a dentist, and then use it. When it's written like this, we wonder how it can be a doctor chosen, say, a pediatrician for a grown man. Can you do that? As a matter of fact, he can. If the minister says there can be other specialities, it means it's possible. It's one general confusion in the member. Now let me ask you something else. Doesn't that fall into your eyes? He says this - the doctor chosen is a doctor of medicine or a doctor of medicine specialist. He explained it to us on the Committee, he said – the most competent, don't be angry, he has the best knowledge to treat a complete man. In part, I agree. She is the queen of medicine internal medicine, she was, and she'll probably stay. That's not where we argue. Surgery is something that's also significant. If a doctor can be a doctor, we're all doctors of medicine. If I become a specialist, you can't take something from me that's lower. Then what are you writing this and what are you making galamatias? Oh, my God, guys. If you give the doctor a general practice first, the story is over. Comrade Luna, don't be angry, don't write for interns. It's been given right to everyone. No one can take away from me that I'm a doctor of general practice. That's all we pointed out, and that's why we thought this should be deleted. No evil intention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23055	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. You're right, the previous two amendments were to article 141 and now three in a row are different solutions, as you pointed out. So now, with the addition of Mr. Jovanovic, with the addition and the third with the delete. It's all on Article 146. You're right. Here you go, Mr. Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23056	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the most severe diseases of our health system are, in any case, corruption and crime. The National Assembly can adopt whatever insurance and health insurance laws they want here, but if you're not ready and determined to root this out first, we're not going to achieve any good effect. If you do not have the political will to fight those who are corrupt and who deal with crime, they are at the top of health care, there will be no effect. I don't think there is any such willingness in the current government, Mr. Minister. The only ones who are determined to free these monsters are the people of the Serbian Radical Party. It is clear to all citizens of Serbia. All the others were seen in action, yet they still trust Serbian radicals. As a result, a group of health workers and the Health Centre in Književec sent me a letter, wishing that if they had no other way to fight this, at least we from the Serbian Radical Party would publish and inform the public of all Serbia. This is what the letter says. In short form, I'll read it to you. "We want to inform the public, i.e. citizens of the municipality of Književec, that the funds of self-sufficient health care have been spent, i.e. the purchase of appliances for the Health Centre of Književec. At the time, the director of the Health Centre in Knjaževec and the president of the Commission for Self-Accession for Health was Dr Slavica Ćirković, otherwise a senior DS official in Knjaževec. The purchase of apparatus from self-supply for healthcare, and by buying incomplete, inadequate and unskilled appliances, has caused enormous damage to the health care facility in Književec, because it was the only chance to get into the necessary appliances, and a huge damage has been done to the citizens of Književec municipality, because the use of self-delivery funds by the employees of the municipality of Književec. The most recent example is an example of a sterilizer, which was paid about two and a half million dinars. We're working with out-of-date, out-of-date and unreliable sterilization machines today. Untrusted sterilizer is a major factor and an important condition for the transmission of transmission diseases, such as syphilis, HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C. All remain deaf and silent to our warnings, no one wanted to listen to professional and competent people and to understand what damage is done to the health institution and society at all." Then a list of equipment that was purchased: "October 2, 2003, an automatic steam sterilizer was purchased for 2.599,902 of the company Delta Trade from Nis. The machine was purchased inadequately and incompletely. The machine doesn't work for a year and a half from the day of arrival, and the warranty period is up. When buying the apparatus the tender is formed according to the seller, not according to the needs of the Health Center. The issue remains open why Dr Slavica Ćirković, former director of the Health Centre in Knjaževec, and the current health inspector for the Zaječar region, bought an inadequate and unquality machine for two and a half million dinars. Evidence is the statements of competent health care professionals from surgery. On 1 October 2003, instruments for surgery, amounting to 380,090 dinars, were purchased from the Jugolaboratory from Belgrade. Twenty-six instruments for surgery have been purchased, which are inadequate and unskilled. To date, these 26 instruments are not used. That indeed these 26 instruments do not match in quality and adequateness, confirms Dr. Slavica Ćirkovic's signature as director." So here's her letter to the company from which they were bought, where she says it didn't arrive, 26 pieces of various scissors and other instruments for the needs of the Health Center. Furthermore, "on October 1, 2003, a drought of 95,100 dinars was purchased. The machine doesn't work until today. It broke down after two months. Evidence, also said competent people from gynecology." Further, "26 December 2002" bought a bilirubinometer from Madison for 170,500 dinars. Two years of equipment has not been delivered, nor has it been requested. Two years later, because of the doctor's criticism, an old machine was delivered and inadequate, and a new one was paid. This is also seen in the minutes made up of five members of the commission and the apparatus is not used until today." So five doctors at the Health Center signed that it wasn't a new apparatus, it was a device that was used. There's a photocopy of that record. "The repair of the probe and ultrasound was made on December 9th 2002, amounting to 296,000 dinars. The amount was paid, the probe and the ultrasound weren't fixed. The machines don't work until today." In the end, "EEG apparatus for neuropsychiatry, bought on 29 July 2002 for 1,953,750 dinars from the company Privilege Group". The machine was purchased incomplete. The machine and equipment were paid for, and only the camera came. The accompanying equipment that costs 146,847 dinars didn't come to this day. The accompanying equipment is repurchased and paid out of the Republic's budget. The EEG machine branded Oxford, 24 channels purchased from the Privilege Group, costs 1,953,750 dinars. The EEG branding machine of the Velefarm company costs 1.595.000, also 24 channels. "Here, Mr. Minister, there is one question for you, as it is the staff and function of the DS. I ask you, can a man like Dr. Slavica Cirkovic, after such shops during the management of a medical facility in Knjaževec, be a health inspector for the Zajecar region? That's her today. Same as DS and G17, much like each other. I want to add to what the doctors at the health center in Književec wrote. You will not improve the state of the health fund by saving at funerals and people's pains, but first make sure that you eradicate corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23057	I let you, of course, wait, as you did as an experienced MP, end up asking it as a question, but yesterday we conducted a debate here, and we asked each other to always check, in case eventually some data isn't exactly the most accurate, because it can cause great damage, and you'll certainly deliver it, in fact, to the Minister so that he can check it out. On Article 146, the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. On Article 146, the amendment was submitted by National MP Milet Poscurica. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23058	As a Spanish series, we continue the story of this same query, the chosen doctor, whether it makes sense if he's already chosen, whether it's a good choice; if not, why not some other profiles. We also saw on the board, in the part where you were in, that we shared an opinion about the intern. It is clear that being a doctor, a doctor of medicine, a doctor of general practice in antiquity, I abstain very much from a new proposal for a law on higher education which will be what of them, because in fact in every speciality on this basis it is likely that there is logic that many specialities are inserted into that group of selected doctors. And, it remains a legal proposal, allowing the minister, under certain circumstances, to assign to a health care facility the right, based on the number of insurance companies, to have a different type of specialty represented. It remains a matter of the medical doctor's position, I mean, first of all, these other specialities, neurologists and interns. Neurpsychiatricians made up an optional form of the content of speciality at home and major homes of health have neurologists, neuropsychiatricians, even urologists, cardiologists, even subspecies, interns and a big question arises – what will become of them. It's awkward to put them in the context of the doctor who's chosen... rather than a general practice doctor, it's a little awkward and it's pretty much a banal thing; quickly, as one of the most experienced and one of the best and which here is unmovable, so to speak, I would fill that quota and then show the need for that some basis to make new interns. Perhaps the law should warn or give the Director and the Trustee's advice to decide that where they have such an expert still through some selective filter, through the instructions as a specialist service of another kind, a subsequent consulting service, he is re-elected to a number of patients who will be treated with him, but still pass the filter to see that he cannot go directly from the door to the interns. It really wouldn't be right if it didn't work like that today. I don't count on a lot of people doing pneumophysiological dispensaries, etc., where pneumophysiologists work, where they go without guidance today. This quite large cuts require, and if it was a reform procedure, a selected doctor, the question is how it will all create connotations when the health director points out the list of those he offers. Some homes of health have employees of this party, of which the directors changed, these changed, they changed, so they were friends, so it's a small place, so they had to take into account his father and that's a surplus. It's gone. 7,000 people from health care. Again, relatively, possibly, remained excess. Now that you put all that stuff on the list, all those doctors, whether enough quota will be found for that doctor, we're introducing new situations. Whether they have regulations, or three or four thousand, or two thousand insurance companies per doctor, so someone will have less, and maybe less will be paid. Maybe it was a simpler solution, everyone has a right, freedom, as declared, so to some extent, they have the right to a free choice of doctors. After a year, the contract is for a year, he can change doctors, then it's a source of conflict. The patients and the doctor will be at odds. Why did he change him, what they couldn't find? I'm gonna change that one, he didn't give me sick leave, she gave me a commission, because now you've authorized the commission and the doctors to decide, in the second degree, in the first degree of first degree, to call the doctor, to write a statement. It's going to be a lot more complicated now and it's going to be a real patient (who's now becoming a patient, no longer an insurance) to go and complain and change that doctor, and then they're going to say he was, so I changed him. It's not a game of competition, it's not a measure of the value of that doctor, it's not a measure of his ability to make a diagnosis. It's one form that has now been introduced by this law, in which you must be seduced by order and equally burdened. Whether they will be equally burdened; everyone will work hard at his workplace to do as much as possible, for he who works very well cannot physically receive the rest of the people. If everyone on that list will pass or not, it will be unclear again. That's why I don't think the concept itself is particularly good, and since it's what it is, what about medicine? Perhaps it could, I think, be the first point of the first position, to say - a specialist in medicine can be selected a doctor in that institution who has concluded a contract with the employer, as regulated in the health protection law at work, and there it is said that each employer concludes a contract with the medical work. Then medicine can work here to be the chosen doctor, not to be the chosen doctor if it's for both women and old people, and for pensioners, children and high school kids, etc. Maybe it could have shifted to avoid creating a dilemma about why a doctor of medical work had been chosen, and the intern had not. Then we don't even know if being chosen means being selected on a list, so you're multiplying that you're doing an abnormally 2,000 or 3,000 exams, that you cross every quota of specialist examinations. Somehow it's not solved. Is that going to be dealt with by sublegal law? If an intern has been elected, does it really mean that we're going to go in any way we want to, and God forbid he doesn't take anyone in, so he's going to have criminal measures, so he's going to advise the insurance guy, so the minister, and then he's going to... At a time when we're hearing about tender events, for some small palaces, small townships and a million dinars, there's a big event, and a broken centrifuges or a dryer and a sterilizer. Somewhere this is done on a much higher level, tender procurement for dialysis, procurement of x-ray films, cytostatics, for a year or two up front, payment immediately, etc. There's super commissions, everybody's good at it, they're drowning and nothing's better. It used to be -- give me God's customs, or give me God's pump, and now -- give me God's place as director of a slightly bigger home of health, etc. Give me two terms and I'll be quiet, house to heaven. Anyone who takes it characterly can sell it nicely. It's our reality in health care, from where people in one small town noticed that someone who was a bad director could be an inspector, I guess because he knows best how to roll and play, tender games, tender masters, and then he can chase them slowly. The question is whether they will, if they're the same political alliance and they won't. Why not, because we passed all the political translation on to the executive bodies, from what we had on October 5th and beyond. We're seeing today and in the boards of directors, but I'm not going to spread the subject, that they're really so boarded up, that it's all very clear here. You don't have the right, as much as you want it to seem politically useful to you, to even touch the 2000 period, because you've done it much worse. At least they needed someone to camouflage, so they could bring someone in, say, take that one, maybe it's a radical. I wasn't a member anywhere, I was once and asked the director, some traps were sold to some private Trnavec; when only that question was asked, they immediately removed me, kicked me out of the board. So, there was, they wanted to mask with someone who wasn't from their political alliance, and now that you look, from apothecary institutions, schools, there are all these alliances everywhere, both the minister and the strict vertical or someone who was inevitably set up. I've expanded this subject a little bit. What I'm saying is that we've set ourselves the goal of the chosen doctor, the big story about it, the vagueness of what that means, maybe they'll confrontation the doctors with each other, and on the other hand they're promoting much more serious things. We have a restrictions on sick leave, it's harder to get sick, less will be paid, then a restrictions on funeral expenses, to travel expenses, we'll increase drug participation, who knows what they'll be like. All the drugs we're saying are great, they go into primary protection, like preventive drugs, they're participated 50 percent and up. When a doctor wants to "do" you have to find an unfortunate code, and what if someone afterwards gives him proof that it's a code, to save you from paying, it has to be a code, it has to be a code, it has to be stamped, it can't reject you as a colleague, it's embarrassing, it has to bite, and you have to bring him documentation that someone really has ulcerative disease, proven gastroscopic for an ulcer. Is it possible that you can't get hurt because you don't have a proven ulceral disease other than gastroscopic disease? It's really just amazing how many different traps, a trick is meant to finally have a patient, a service user, be financially exploited, harassed and taken at every turn, so there's nothing reformable, nor is this idea of a selected doctor. We don't even know how a family doctor would go. It's true we don't have any family medicine specialists, but what do we do in Kragujevac? I teach someone who's three years old, called family medicine, a high-tech medical profession, the direction of family medicine. I don't know, we all wrote the program individually. It's not a question for you, but it is a question to some extent for that minister who didn't say a word when the law was passed. They're nurses. It'll be highly educated people, it's a high-school medical school, they'll be able to master, they've got family medicine. What will they do, where will they do, what will you do with these people, what a tender for them, Lord God knows. Is there any agreement when it comes to specializing tomorrow? Will specializations go according to the program that Vuksanovic brought or this one of yours? One country, two systems, amazing what's done. Specialist studies are down to a year. Much less took the victims and risks of doctors of general practice to doctors of family medicine specialists compared to what we did with such a strange choice of selected physician, in which a woman in a generic period will only have gynecologist as a selected physician, and won't be able to have a doctor of general practice, therefore, indeed Mr. Momchilov is right, will use her knowledge from the general medical profession and will have to treat flu, treat colds, because he is the only doctor chosen for that woman. It probably is, and if not, why don't you write that it isn't or deny it. After all, that's what the law says, that only one can be chosen. Unnecessary experiments, and in the end, are more serious than quasi-legal solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23059	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted to Article 147 an amendment to add the words "private practice" in attitude 1 following the word "health care provider" to the term "private practice". The first point is: "A contract between the home office and the healthcare provider determines the doctors of individuals who have the authority of the selected doctor". If this amendment were to be adopted, this position would read: "A contract between the home office and the healthcare provider, i.e. private practice, determines the doctors of individuals who have the authority of the selected physician". The aim is to bring private practice – and later the law that follows, on the chambers of health workers, puts the health chamber of the private and state sector in an equal position, so that private workers can simply choose their own doctors. However, there was no amendment to Article 145, so I would say only one thing I noticed, it probably missed, and that is, it is said in the first position – in determining the species, scope and content, ways and procedures in the exercise of the right to the health care of insured persons etc. take part in the procedure of the selected doctor, first-degree committee, etc. I think there's something missing. Neither the selected doctor nor the first-degree medical board nor the second-degree medical commission can establish the rights to health care. The right to healthcare should determine this law, and they can determine the scope and content, the way and procedure of providing services, not the use of rights. It's something I've noticed, it's not regulated by the amendments, but you can probably, if you have a way of correcting this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23061	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 153 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 177 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jovanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 178th Amendment were submitted by MP Nikola Jovanovic, MP Branislav Blazic and MP Veroljub Stevanovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23062	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 178 of Section 1 to delete. It reads: "The advantage in the conclusion of the contract with the parent branch, i.e. the Republic Institute, has those health institutions that received a certificate of quality in the accreditation process, in accordance with the law governing health care. "I want to make one parallel between Article 178, a member of the selected doctor and a member referring to the waiting list. The essence is the same, the ministry probably wanted to fix and improve health care with certain measures, to in some ways speed up or improve quality, and to give citizens the opportunity to get adequate healthcare, to choose the doctor that is best for them. However, this is all about obviously bureaucratic methods and it is clear that this is not the best method; the patient should in fact be the only filter and the real filter that will determine the quality of the doctor and the quality of the one to be treated, regardless of the desire to assign a quality certificate to accreditation. There's another problem here, which makes a difference between a state institution and a private doctor. The state institutions will, of course, be easier to obtain certificates, while private doctors will have to pay for it and that's where the question arises – if they would all pay, would they then be practically in an unequal position because this system that exists now remains. What's the point of the whole story is to analyze how it actually came to have these waiting lists and how it came up suddenly with a number of doctors, which cover our territory enough by the number of residents that they could adequately respond to all health care requirements according to the number of residents, we have this deficit and we have a waiting list that, for example, a few years ago wasn't there. It can't be said that there were fewer doctors at the time, or there were fewer patients; the same situation was, but it happened that in the privatisation process in the health care community, it came to overdo practically patients from state institutions, heading towards private ones, that certain doctors reduce the number of patients they are going to examine at the state institution, to direct them either at home or to some private offices and clinics. This is the problem that has arisen and thus created a problem with the waiting list, which now does not solve the Ministry with this law, but simply tries to mutilate it, to mutilate something that has been created in practice by some of the actions in health care that cannot be considered correct. There's a question of two waiting lists. One's with specialists, one's for certain diagnostic methods. The ones that come from specialists are because we actually underestimated the doctor's general practice to the extent that he does nothing but guide patients towards specialists. We now have a terrible pressure on specialists and normally that they cannot adequately respond to all these intense demands, waiting lists appear. So we should create a system to improve the quality of the work of general practitioners, so that he can take some pressure and relieve the specialist. We would have no need for all these waiting lists, because specialists would be relieved and they would only do the job that a specialist really needs to intervene or do the first or second review, and later on, it could be done by a doctor of general practice, control. I think that we also make a terrible mistake with this law that we do not transfer the focus of primary health care to doctors of general practice, normally, with education, by improving its knowledge, because they, neither guilty nor debtor, because of the way they work and because of the way they organize healthcare, have completely ignored education and improvement in this form. The other thing is diagnostic methods. I think we have a very high rate of duplication of diagnostic methods here. People working on these scans or some other methods say that up to 90% we have practically negative results, indicating that the pressure on these diagnostic methods is unfounded and this also leads to these waiting lists and duplication methods. Therefore, normally with all this when we add an inadequate reward for the work of doctors and general practice and specialists, we have a very bad system. Could we develop this system with a family doctor? It's a question of thinking, which can certainly be parallel to this law that we're passing, but what we need, it's that through the analysis of these negative indicators that we're trying to create an uninterrupted system of perfection. Just a continuous system of training and raising the quality of knowledge at the doctor, no matter what level, we will avoid all these waiting lists, elected doctors; we will also avoid giving bureaucratic methods various certificates, but we will have patients as controllers, a patient who will define all of this and we will have cheaper health care, I am convinced.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23063	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 179 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23064	Dear People's MPs, MP Zoran Krasic of the Serbian Radical Party has submitted an amendment with the next drive – that you see in one clear way that the law that came from wanting to carry out decentralisation with some of your provisions comes contrary to its declaration. It is said: "The Republic Institute adopts a general act governing the conditions, criteria and criteria for the conclusion of a contract with healthcare providers and for determining the compensation for their work for each calendar year. "Not to read everything, the minister says, gives consent from the first member. It is one centralisation, which is in the minister's hands, and it will be seen in other laws in this area that a lot of jurisdiction is given, much is given to the minister, unnecessary jurisdiction, and we are talking about decentralisation. So, if you're talking about bargaining, what kind of bargaining is it when you bring in an act that you've restricted the contract? When we make a deal, then I offer, this one accepts or doesn't accept and we make a deal eventually. It's a bargain. You bring the criteria and the criteria and the criteria and the conditions, and then you bring in and you determine, and then you find out and then you say we're making a deal. It's--take it or leave it. It's not a bargain. Contracting is when you have a partner. And who brings these criteria now? Again, some republican fund; we've seen a lot of what is done in that fund today and how this fund works. Often, socialists here say, 33,000 employees in the state administration before 2000 - 11,000. We haven't been able to cut it off, and then after public spending and what's set for health care, we'll have sex. Someone said that there were 80 employees in that fund before this government, and now 120, and what's blackest, past the systemization. There are some examples presented, I didn't remember, I can't remember what they are, they're severe dubiosis. Now that's the kind of institution that needs to sign everything up and we're supposed to make a deal. No, we're giving you an offer, an exclusive offer, you will-you won't, goodbye, take it or leave it. It's not a bargain. Who's supposed to be in? I'm sure it's someone who's an expert. Whether it will be chambers that represent professional interests, whether it will be a service provider. You need to ask the service providers if that's okay. How can you determine everything yourself and talk about democracy, about decentralisation? You have to agree with the donors to bring this act from the first position, who will be the representative I can't say now and I won't say. Understand one thing, we generally challenge the quality of these solutions you've given in law. We said how we could see it should be done. We didn't go into detail to explain all the members and look, because there's a bunch of things that a man could find to wait for, but we basically said, that's the point. So I'm telling you, when you talk about criteria, about all of this, so everything that's about the bargaining, you have to hear the other side, and where you hear it, in what way, it's not clear to us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23065	Anyone else by this amendment? Yeah. I'm sorry, Mrs. Dacin, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23066	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of Parliament, when health laws are on the agenda, it's a general topic, where, no matter what member and whatever law is on the agenda, we can spread the story at all, and it's really nothing controversial, so I would simply suggest to the minister, if he accepts, that in the next one of our work every month, he allows us to make communication, so that we can talk about everything and everything. However, Article 178 says who should take precedence in concluding a contract with the parent branch. We can argue here, we Socialists really represent the view that with the Republic Fund they can and should sign contracts and private doctors, that compensation can be made for those who meet the relevant standards under the same conditions. So, I even suggested a way to make a refund so that we would absolutely be in equal terms and private and state doctors, but I really wanted to take the opportunity to say, you know, all these signings yearly with the Republic Fund, any state institutions, any private institutions that would meet the criteria with which the fund would make a contract, are worth nothing if they really weren't able to pay the real price of the service that was done. So I'm talking about the next one, considering this is something new. We had practice, at least in kickinda, that private doctors made contracts with a health care facility, that it was a relationship that within three days a private doctor medical service performed by a state laboratory, an x-ray or anyone has to pay, so from the patient how much he takes, everyone has a price list. So, there's nothing worth fighting for, or private doctors making a deal with the Republic Fund, unless the real realization of the value of services is ensured. This should apply both to private practice, so I think of state institutions which and how they depend, of course, on the real inflow of funds in the Republic Fund. I accept the fact and I think it's a good thing, my colleague Blažić was talking about us all swearing on the primary health care of doctors in general, and in the end it all ends up kind of on that secondary level, which is not good and what needs to be put back where it should be. Since, in the new health care law, primary health care, that is, health homes go to the level of local self-government, I think it's really there... And a respected colleague, Branislav Blazic, is the president of the municipality of Kikinda, a city from which I am an MP, and I really expect it to enable rationalisation, savings and increased quality of work. I believe there is still a president of municipalities in Serbia, to whom it will mean something. I've heard even people who are a little afraid of what's coming. In the end, the time ahead will show us who's capable and how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23067	Thank you, Mrs. Dacin. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic to Article 186. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party to Article 186. This article states that the Republic Institute is obliged to organise and carry out the control of the execution of completed contracts with healthcare providers. The Republic Institute shall exercise control over the implementation of completed contracts between branches and healthcare providers. The activities of the control of completed contracts shall be carried out by branches, as well as by the District Office, in accordance with this law. In Article 186 of the Law, it is proposed to establish a service for the control of completed contracts in the Republic Institute, or branches, as well as to the Regional Health Insurance Office. The official person of the Republic Institute, i.e. the insurance supervisor, shall exercise control of the regularity of the execution of the contracts concluded, as well as the dedicated use of financial resources. The Serbian Radical Party's amendment suggests adding Article 186 following Article 3 of Article 4 which reads: "The control of the commitments made by the Republic Institute is carried out by the Ministry of Health", particularly because Serbian Radical Party MPs believe it cannot be a one-way control of the implementation of obligations. On the Health Committee, five MPs voted in favour of the amendment, five against it. According to the Government, only the Republic Institute can control the performance of the contract obligations of health care providers, and given the fact that the Republic Institute of its resources finance the rights of compulsory health insurance. It is not accepted because the Ministry of Health, as a state body, does not have mechanisms to control closed contracts. That's exactly what the SRS warns, that we have to have mechanisms to control the closed contracts, because today, too, it's repeatedly been demonstrated that we don't trust the Republic Health Insurance Office. If he does all the purchases exclusively by means of direct guessing, without public advertising and regular tender procedures, how can we trust him if we know that nearly 580 million dinars have thus gone on the tender. Just one example, let's say, tenders mostly contained a payment clause within 15 days of the delivery day, instead of the usual deadline, which is 60 to 120 days. So Schering complained that the conditions of the interferon tender disqualified them, although their bid was 5,000 euros lower than the other Roshe firm, which was selected in the tender, which is indeed unacceptable, as well as the fact that the tender was not published in a timely manner in public information. I didn't mean to talk about other topics, but I respect Mrs. Živodarka Dacin, who asked us to use the minister's presence to talk about health in general; I would like to use his presence to open up another health problem, which may be evident but also needs to be stressed. This applies to neuropsychiatric hospitals, as well as homes for temporary and permanent care of persons incapable of social and family life. It is primarily the hospital "Dr Lazarevic" in Belgrade, Dom in Kovin, "Little Bees" in Kragujevac, as well as the hospital Gornja Topnica near Nis. These conditions have been improving a little lately, but, if we're precise and honest, these people don't even have basic standards of living needs in such institutions. We ask that what is their needs, by law and by the Constitution be fulfilled. Most patients leave home treatment, even in worse condition than at reception. They are rarely released from their homes to take care of their loved ones, but it is therefore necessary to take care of the condition of these patients. It does not take into account whether the environment, or family, is in a position to take care of them. It's one hopelessness that finds not only a patient who's mentally unorientated, but even comes to the fact that the whole family is hopeless. Many times there is a situation where these patients are abandoned, or there is a great danger of aggression. I mean, the question is, is the real health supervision run over them? I therefore hope that the institutions of government in this country will address this problem, so that the world that lives in its own special time will be placed on the right pedestal of true values. The Serbian Radical Party believes that we need to give these patients the life of a worthy man, because they all deserve love and attention, as well as our children and our parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23069	Thank you too, Mr. Cvetanović, especially at this final part of the exhibition. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Board considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23070	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 202, I have submitted an amendment to erase the second position. Paragraph 2 reads: "The government gives consent to the act set out in Article 1(1). "Station 1 reads: "The decision on the amount of funds transferred to the branches shall be taken by the Republic Bureau for each financial year. "So we have a situation that the Institute will determine how many municipalities or branches will be allocated. So we have a refund of funds and the government gives consent. There are immediate doubts, which is why the government is appearing as an arbiter who will give consent to the already defined criteria under which the Bureau will determine how much funds it will give to certain branches. I think we are now in a situation where we are seriously beginning to think about whether it is possible to decentralise health in the Republic of Serbia. Surely at the first moment, as a first step, it is very difficult to do so immediately, but in order to avoid these doubts, and in particular that some branches would be more, and some less financed, depending on some political will and political sympathy and in some other way, it would be convenient to think that 70% of the funds, what is being achieved in some municipality, that this remains on the territory of that municipality, and that maybe 30% for the first step goes into the common register, from which a return to the principle of solidarity, that certain municipalities, is a bigger problem, separates funds to maintain the level of health care. So we should at least think about it if nothing else, because this way – pouring funds into the plant, and from the central going back to certain municipalities – proved to be quite inadequate, suspicious, sometimes incorrect to certain municipalities. We also see that according to the transfer funds that are returning to municipalities, there is a lot of politicisation; certain municipalities allocate far more resources than they are being returned. I think that everyone in their community should think seriously about how they will organize their health according to the means they achieve in their community, so how much debt is owed to him. Therefore, I do not want it to go to 100% and leave one percent to maintain the principle of solidarity. So I might give a thought proposal – I don't think it's possible right now, I don't think that this should go right away – that in the next period, we should think about decentralisation of health care and financing of health care in Serbia, let's go with the first step, maybe 60 or 70%, or some ministry, based on its parameters that it has, a good budget, so that it'll be the first step; then in the next step, let's see if we can go on or we have to keep at that 60%, 70%, so that we always have that reserve 30%, 40% to intervene and help those municipalities or health institutions that are in a difficult material state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23071	Thank you, Mr. Bliss. Anyone else by this amendment? On Article 222, the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 225 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Professor Dr Tomica Milosavljevic, Minister of Health, want to give the final word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, we are at the end of the day where we are, and our citizens have been witnesses all along, spent their energy and time considering the bill on health insurance and a total of 86 amendments. The government and the Ministry of Health have adopted 27 amendments, and this is what has been done in previous exhibitions several times: the job of the legislative authority, the Assembly, MPs, on the one hand, and the executive authorities, the Government, and in this case the Ministry of Health, is that in a constructive way, with the desire to adopt a better regulation, do the best he can and can under the given circumstances, and that the law is not a list of good wishes or a list of good intentions that has no basis in reality and in our real life, but rather to be a serious, reasonable and rational regulation that will at this time take a step forward for this country's health system to be just and rationally regulated. I tried to understand the desire to submit a series of amendments and to discuss them, and occasionally I wondered what was the reason, what was the purpose, which is a platform that offers a diametrically different approach or a completely different approach. Believe me, there's actually no diametrically different approach. There have been different attitudes and I will try very briefly, not abuse the end of this day and your attention, to answer. Here are the arguments why this approach contained in the bill, enriched with the amendments that have been accepted, has been chosen for this moment by Serbia to be offered to you and to become a rule that we will all rule from the moment the law is passed and published in the "Official Messenger". Thank God, it has to be a mandatory rule for everyone, because it's a rule of democracy. We'll make a lot of arrangements and exchange opinions, three hundred times talk about one problem, but when we bring it in, then it's the attitude we're holding until the time comes to change it with something better, the best is gone. This congregation will certainly have opportunities over the years ahead of us many times to consider health laws. Analysis of the country's parallel legal systems in transition, including countries that have recently entered the EU, has shown that there is a bad experience when it comes to the hasty and rapid transfer of compulsory health insurance to different insurance companies. There are several arguments in favour of the position of compulsory health insurance, as a principle of intergenerational solidarity, solidarity between healthy and sick, solidarity between citizens of different social status, to be detained in an institution called the Republic Health Insurance Institute in our country. The principles set out at the beginning of this legislative proposal are members of the law that should honor this assembly and this government. When you interpret the law and the next day you talk about why such a sublegal act and why such or such interpretation of a regulation, you simply say – this law rests on the principle of obligation, the public, the protection of the rights of insured persons and the protection of public interest, on the principle of continuous improvement of quality, on the principle of economicity and efficiency. These really are the classic principles on which the modern health insurance system rests today. These principles are also important because of the occasional criticisms they have discussed about the purification of the law I experience, on the one hand, as rational and reasonable. Whenever you have a long text in front of you, a big law, it's never practical. Of course it's easier to read 20 members than 250. Of course, it is easier to express yourself in short sentences than by long and complicated claims. There are areas where there are so many different aspects that you have to look at from multiple angles. Some of the amendments said that it should not be said that payment of contributions is mandatory in order to achieve rights. I deliberately said that this law, which we are trying to pass in the best possible way, must not be a list of good wishes and a list of good intentions. It is much easier to bring a list of good desires and best intentions and explain it in big words. We shall say, "We shall do all that we have written down, and then we shall not be able to accomplish a part of it after that." For example, in 2004, there were 1,580,140 employees and 470,714 independent workers plus family members, 359,876 farmers, with about two million health books of family members. That's 30. Six. 2005. The situation in which all compulsory health insurance rights would be implemented by definition as something that is meant, without taking into account the financial sustainability of what the state has denied to provide its citizens, would not be a responsible move. There are a number of mechanisms in the law that protect the poor, the threatened, the ones that cannot earn, many patients who have severe and chronic diseases. After all, the parent records were introduced by this regulation. At one point, there was a claim that the previous three-month health insurance internship should not constitute a basis for health rights. This attitude was put precisely because one of the fastest ways of abuse of rights in practice so far was to get a job, sometimes fictitiously, and then go to sick leave and make a series of months of income. Because of this income that you make, someone else can't take insulin that month, or it can't get the medicine that it needs, or you don't have enough money to provide another need. So at that weigh of priorities this was the reason for this measure. There have been many conversations about prevention; prevention is a broad and significant activity and the main result we want to achieve rests on it. The main result we want to achieve in all of this in the health system is that the health of the nation gets better. When it comes to the health of the nation, some parameters from official statistics are, for example, the following: I will not bother you very much, but you should know that in 1962 in our country, a thousand live births were 85, in 1972, 45, 1982, 35, 1992, nine. Morality - mortality in the first year of life, on a thousand live births, was 48 in the 60s, then 24, then 17, and eight, and 2003 – 2.5. In the percentage of infectious diseases, the mortality rate was 8% of the 1960s, 1992, 1.19, 2003, 0.53. Don't let me count on it. The country's health workers, they were the paramedics who finished courses after the war, so they started working, or sisters, doctors, experienced being humiliated, working for five marks a month, to carry from home on duty towels and soap. That debauchery and humiliation is still like a scar. It is mentioned that several thousand people, with a voluntary desire to leave work, with stimulating severance, that it is a move that is not divine what and that they are mostly dissatisfied people. I haven't heard any dissatisfaction. On October 31st, they received a fair, decent severance. I personally experienced one of my main sisters kissing me in the hallway and saying – Professor, this is really fair. You remember what we've been through these 30 years, the way we've been doing. I think it's a fair attitude towards health care employees to experience such an opportunity that rationalization doesn't start with kicking in the back of the back, but to start with a fair conversation and a serious approach. I can tell you that after the adoption of this law, in December, Serbian health workers will immediately have two new sublaws, based on this health care law, though, but now I'm talking about the package. One will be called -- a network of health institutions in Serbia, and another -- standards for meeting working conditions, both in terms of space and numbers, but also in terms of labour standards. So it kind of surrounds the five - year effort to make the system as good as possible. Why not family medicine? She's got an old saying - call me a cramp, but don't kick my ass. There is a fundamental difference between a family doctor and a selected doctor of general medicine. Over the past few years, large expert discussions have been held in which arguments have been made in favour of one or another claim. You need to know that a family doctor today in Europe means doctors of general medicine who is educated for family medicine, whether through specialization, whether through some other kind of training, trained to take care of children and to perform gynaecological examinations. Primary protection means the possibility that I in my health system, for which I pay mandatory health insurance, I've been paying for it my whole life, thank God, I want to be healthy all my life, but sometimes I need it and it's the essence of solidarity, that then that my chosen doctor, if he's a family doctor, he's the only one I can go to without a instructions. He's a guard of the gate, a guard of the health system, and he's a commander of the parade, if I may say so. Then there's no pediatrician as a doctor to whom I'm taking my child for a review, of course, without any instructions, and there's no gynecologist with whom our wives, mothers, sisters go for an examination without instruction. No, then there's a doctor, he's called a family doctor. It is much cheaper for the system and for the state, but in the situation in which we are in Serbia, it would be irresponsible and poor to introduce the institution of a family doctor and to cross over a pediatrician who has managed to bring this kind of effort in 50 years closer to the health indicators of our children to the high standards of the developed world, despite the poverty, because we are all going to agree together, a poor country, which must guard each of its dinar and turn it five times before spending it and to take care of how it will be spent. Therefore, to jump into family medicine, regardless of how many discussions are being held here, and while forgetting tradition, the existing situation and the real situation, would be irresponsible. For example, Slovenia has both institutions. He has an institution of a chosen doctor, who is in some parts of their country a family doctor. So, even in our situation, there will be rural areas, remote villages, remote settlements where there are no doctors, except for doctors of general medicine. He'll also have a pediatrician role somewhere. I think I've made enough arguments as to why the family doctor isn't defined. Then, for good reason, it was an attempt to rephrase percentages and make wrong conclusions. The wrong conclusion is to expect that because medical services should be 70% in primary health care, there should be so much money. These are mixed two different things. In the financing of the health system, the most expensive and the most informal is the payment of the price of the service. It can't even pay for a much richer system. When you're paying for a favor, then you're making an artificial creation of a large number of services. It's a familiar thing. Payment of services can only be accepted in a regulated system for extremely expensive sophisticated services that have a high price. For example, you can't say -- I'll pay heart surgery by capitating, if the heart surgery requires you to buy a 2,000-euro stand, to provide an angel hall that costs a million or a million-and-a-half euros. So that service won't be sustainable if you don't pay the favor. Primary protection, the home of health should be paid by captainship. It's a model that provides solidarity. This ensures that both in Bosilegrad and in Kikinda, and in Leskovec, and in Zrenjanin, and in Jagodina, that the principle of paying home health is equal everywhere, as it is said – the standard is so many citizens per selected doctor, so it is from 1,400 to 1,600, and it cannot be over 1,800, because it jumps out of the system. Then you start paying primary protection according to what the result is. There were several discussions on which I am very grateful, because they used the terms "permanent improvement", "quality", "promotion of quality", "integrated patient education system as controller". I'm very grateful for those claims, because they're standing right here in this package of laws. As far as quality is concerned, this minister and this ministry have been working on a national quality rule for a year and a half. I'll touch just a little bit of these famous waiting lists now, and I'll explain them later. That's where two things go wrong again. One thing is to schedule a specialist examination. Today, given the wealth of a network of health institutions and the number of specialists, no Serbian citizen should wait for a specialist review anywhere in this country for more than four weeks. An appointment of a review exists everywhere in the arranged systems. You have your doctor's general medicine, and he'll have you, as with the chosen doctor, as the Royals now can, on the phone -- listen, tonight I was drowned in the Assembly, but tomorrow night I'm at the King's, and then I'm at the King's, can I stop by at your place about half past seven, and I don't feel very well, the minister has upset me so much, although in the end he's taken out a little bit with his closing words. Then go to the doctor right away. If you're being referred to by a neurologist, because you've started blinking on one side and you need an examination, then there are criteria for a specialist's examination. Then it's called an appointment. Well, that's a normal thing. The waiting list, please, is one of the instruments for improving quality. The waiting list is not on the day that I came; the waiting list is the result of six months of the profession's efforts to get for certain procedures, called heart surgery, heart catesterisation, pacemaker implantation, hip surgery, scanner, resonance, rules. Here's an example: a resonance, which is mentioned here and in this given untruth. Try today after this session to turn the phone to the Mother and Child Institute and ask how long it is waiting, for example. Head scanner. It's not waiting at all. Try asking the Clinical Center how magnetic resonance works. It's not waiting at all when it's necessary to do it immediately. What case is that? Head injury with neurological failure, the criteria for what the waist said, must be done in the first 24 hours. On the other hand, a headache without any other fallout and a reason to search can wait up to 12 months. So the understood waiting list is actually a list that allows one who really needs to get a favor right away and not pay for it and not wait. One who doesn't need it can have a connection, know one of you, and try as an MP to call can't move the order. A man only has a headache and there's nothing else. He won't get an appointment early because he's disturbing someone who's urgent. Is it possible to implement this at once? Of course not. That's why we've been working for a year and a half, but the first quality conference has shown there's a shift. I invite you all to come to a quality conference on 23 December to sum up what is called a unique software to track these waiting lists. Try to access the website of the Republic Health Insurance Institute and see that there are lists with encrypted names, because they are protected by citizens by name and last name and to see which way. I'm calling here to say that there are two members who say you have to get proof in writing that you're on some waiting list if you're waiting for that procedure. Of course we're doing everything we can to stop the reason it exists. Examples have been cited, and falsely, that, for example, in Slovenia, which, by the way, has 12 times more money than we have for all, and for health care and is much richer... If you have to operate on a gallbladder, it hurts your stomach, you don't want to lose weight, you eat fat, you like beads, you have rocks, you have to operate, six months waiting for that surgery is no big deal, but in the first two weeks every man who has malignant disease has to be treated. So the waiting lists are one thing, the appointment of the review is another, the lists are an opportunity to strengthen the quality, and here again I say what was mentioned – accreditation. Accreditation was wrongly used as a term that in some discussions was related to private practice. If you carefully read the bill you will see that accreditation refers to a health institution, whether it is state or private. Private practice, you have to understand it once, is something else from a health institution. It's an office, an infirmary, a clinic that I open and do my own personal work, I define myself to be just that, then it's a private practice. The health care institution works under those other regulations, means the board of directors and supervisors, different conditions and is fully equal in status and relationship and in law, whether the founder is a legal person of state or private. Accreditation refers to institutions. It was proposed in the law that she be voluntary. Why? That's what we're going to talk about in the health care laws, because voluntary accreditation will also make it a matter of quality. Of course, not tomorrow, not in a year, but in the next three years we plan to form an independent accreditation agency. Until then, we need to learn what accreditation is, what it looks like, who must have the main roles in it. There's also room for chambers, and for a chamber of health institutions, and for colleges and schools. Anyway, this is a comparative analysis of the modern achievement of regulated health systems today. Let's take it in a row. We said money. So money can't be on that mechanical bill: if it's 70% of the job, it should be 70% of the money. First, I understand the well-intentioned financial analysis of the fund, but you left out a lot of things there. First of all, you forgot that the drugs are where the drugs should be right now. The medications used to treat people when they're lying in a hospital, you know where they are now? In hospital pharmacies. People in hospitals, believe it or not, are now getting more medication than before, more regular than before, and of course the need for refunds is getting less and less. You've instructed examples from practice, as a criticism, but in all of this, there was some year that was out there, two, three years ago, four years ago, you were talking about hips, and we made a line afterwards. Meanwhile, in Bor, the centre you mentioned was introduced by expert supervision of the forbidden operation and came from Belgrade and was head of the department for months and he was building an operational programme and you are visiting, until the professional level of work returned to where it had to be. In Kruševec, where there was a prosthetic problem, there is a whole process that is now where it should be, in the police, in the judicial authorities. So, of course, we can give examples and examples in practice. One of the MPs cited the example of spending money on self - contributions and told the story we have to check out from the paper. Self-delivery is a local contribution, the municipality costs money, buys, there are procedures, there must be a law on public procurement, and whether it is respected or not we would have to see documents if we wanted to claim something. The money at home of health is not the money the fund grants to the health care center that he is now doing some kind of service. First of all, there's no medication. He's got 10 to 11 billion prescription drugs. The stories about the fund's operations and the new prescription forms are mentioned. Why the new recipe and why the press in the state institution according to the Public Procurement Act? Because with the previous prescription, there were several very serious forgeries that led to enormous material damage. Some of the people who did this are in jail today. Not to go further into the details, but that's the way it's done. If one day we're going to have a smart card and an information system, why the new book form? Because it's a transitional phase in getting a smart card when you're building an information system. By the way, since you've allowed yourself to ask and beyond the law, I'm allowing myself to take a little more of your time, no matter how much I risk strangling you already, but the citizens will understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23073	Mr Minister, since the MPs did not allow themselves, they used their right to ask questions, and it is possible to ask questions, and the President of the Assembly has notified them several times during today's debate, as so far in a procedural way, because those questions will be forwarded to the competent minister (in this case to you) if they are parliamentary issues, based on a stenogram, who will be consulted if something is not clear from the point of view of the MP who asked the question, and then as MPs' questions are sent answers, and I ask you to talk only about the details today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23074	Thank you very much for your warning. Let's move on. Why is participation in the first place, and what is participation in the first place? First of all, all the percentages that are mentioned here, if you read the members carefully, I would ask you to do it anyway, who hasn't already, are the maximum level of participation allowed. You have sometimes interpreted things in ways like this, and it is possible to interpret things one way or the other. No, this isn't possible. It's not possible through this anymore. It's only possible under there. That is why the mechanism was left for the government to make, on the proposal of the fund and on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Health, a decision for the year to organise the payment of the participation. Participation in both theory and practice insurance is not just about raising money and increasing funds. First of all, she has a series of protective measures. Two categories have been mentioned here, and then half an hour has been talked about how much it costs to treat this or that malignant disease, and the treatment of malignancies doesn't really cost anything, because there's no participation. A number of other diseases of socio-medical importance have been freed from participations, and other categories, with protective measures for people of the worst social status as well. So the content can only increase and the intention is to actually make a decision every year that represents a safeguard measure. At this point, as we speak, the safeguard measure is that each of us can pay for participation up to a third of the month's salary in the year, only we're not used to thinking that way, so we don't collect bills, and after this law, there goes a different practice about it. If you think that the moment the law is passed and published in the Official List will start to apply this with these maximum percentages, then you are mistaken, because there is a decision that regulates what you are this year. It's this percentage of participation in absolute amounts of those 20 dinars, 50 dinars, and it's a safeguard measure of up to a third of the salary. The government will be very careful, taking care of whether that year we continued the trend of economic recovery, which is doubtless even for total political opponents... The country is progressing because economic growth is evident. Our standard is bad, but transition always has such a swing that you can see after a few years. The government has the greatest responsibility, and you have the greatest right to approve such a financial plan or not, because you are making a budget, it is not brought by the finance minister; you bring consent to the Health Insurance Fund's financial plan, the PIO Fund, not the Government. Therefore, there are several control mechanisms for protection. Otherwise, participation exists everywhere. It's mentioned here about the transplant. Of course there's no participation in the transplant. That's what it says who wants to read it. Who wants to read and push somewhere in the back and then doesn't say it on purpose can also make a claim that it costs. It doesn't cost and it can never cost. I wish there were as many transplants as Serbia's citizens need, as much as we can do. The service provider must issue a duly planned account. That is why the amendment that recommended it is not respected. At one point, it is not sufficiently understood what the service provider means, so it was an observation in several amendments that they are placed in an unequal position of state and private, but if you turn to Article 48 he defines who the service provider is and uses the term "service provider" in the text below, which means, of course, both a state and a private institution. The unfair situation of private practice has been mentioned several times and the claim is made that the best form of decentralisation is privatisation. This is a legitimate position, of course, but after all the analysis we have done, we believe that this would be a huge mistake that would be completely unsustainable and bring enormous damage because it is colored by the personal interest of profit-making, because under the balance of position, in fact, only in that equality sees the open register and the payment for the service. It would last three months, in the fifth month they'd all be in debt, and in the sixth month you'd have strikes from private people who did the job, you'd get a huge increase in services, you'd have chaos in the system. Equality of the position of state and private practice in terms of the conditions for founding law, in terms of the possibility of a contract, and there was no understanding that it was possible for me as a citizen to go and choose a doctor and then, after automation, he would make a contract with the Insurance Fund, it was also something that could be marked by a word that starts with the letter "U" and it's called Utopia. Why? Because a regulated system involves the separation of users of the system, these are citizens of Serbia, service providers, and providers are health institutions and state and private ownership, the next day, mixed ownership. We have several private investment initiatives in state institutions, and that will be private offices, sectors, those are service providers. Who pays? He pays for modern health insurance. Do we have it? We don't have it. We have an institution that must have more power than it does now, which has to have an information system, and that's why you have a few new categories here. We mentioned several times that there are conflicts in which then whoever has a privileged position has no way of solving anything. However, the treaty introduced arbitration for the first time, it was not in previous laws. Contracting parties are, in this case in a contractual bonding relationship, on the one hand, health insurance, and on the other hand, a health institution. At times, there were contradictions in the amendments. At one point, it was attributed that great power and power were given to the minister. First, wherever it says the minister's regulation should be read - sublegislative, ministry. In the Law on State Administration, it is clear that the Ministry of Health is not virtual, it must be characterized by someone who has the responsibility to sign documents and to stand behind it and for that reason by the minister, for nothing else. In doing so, more powers were proposed in the other amendments, so it was said that it was not enough for the Republic Health Insurance Office to control the contract, but rather for the Ministry to do so. It's two different things. The health ministry under the law of the Republic of Serbia has the responsibility of overseeing the legality of the work of the Insurance Fund, and supervision of the implementation of the contract is another type of supervision resulting from bond relations between the paying fund and the contract. Speaking of contracts, we should all be aware that only a couple of years back are contracts. They were Kobayagi contracts, signed at the end of the year and covered the previous year. They need to be more and more real contracts, which clearly know the rules of what I buy, how much I buy, how I pay and how slowly change the way I pay from what I have, so I pay it, how many people and space, according to what I give as a result and what the quality of it is, and then I pay for the result. I was going to say that there was a misunderstanding here about a selected doctor. I had an inner sense of great pleasure, because one MP used a sentence that the focus must be on the doctor of general practice. That's right. The weight of the system, and in the system, in its center it really needs to be a citizen, and when it's healthy and when it's sick. When it's healthy to preserve his health, that we all know it's our doctor and he knows that when I turn 50 once in ten years I have to have colonoscopy done to rule out colon tumor, because in our country, the incidence of these tumors is the largest in Europe, along with the Czechs, Slovaks and Hungarians. He knows well that he should advise me not to fall into the Parliament much, because a leap of pressure and a lot of fat and a little physical activity increases the risk of sugar, of increased blood pressure, of coronary disease. So when I'm healthy enough to keep my health as my chosen doctor, and when I'm sick, I know exactly what I can do with him and he knows better than me, what I'm going to do there, how long I can lie in that hospital. And that's why we're restructured hospital facilities, acute hospitalization for up to 14 days, chronic hospitalization, paliatical care. The European Conference of Palitative Care under the auspices of the Council of Europe was held in Belgrade on 21 and 22 October and, you will not believe, is a Belgrade declaration to be quoted by all in Europe for the next ten years. The World Health Organization is mentioned, and I thank the MP who mentioned the World Health Organization, because it is the United Nations agency with the highest reputation in the globe. One of the strategic directions for the work of the World Health Organisation for the European region is to strengthen the health system in Europe. Europe is not only the European Union, but 52 member states form the World Health Organization in Europe. This mentioned some correspondence with the World Bank and with international partners. You know how, with international partners, it's hard to talk and co-operate, to make arguments, to fight for your own opinions, to prove those views and to get some common attitudes. If I may say something immodest, the Ministry of Health has become a serious partner in international organisations in recent years. Your partner isn't the one taking you by the hand, showing you how you're gonna get out of this door, how you're gonna find a way out. The partner is the one who says – I think it should be like this, and you say – and I think it's not very good, but that there are three other solutions in our situation, so you end up in the middle. One of the MPs here used to show letters from our mutual correspondence, once newspaper texts. Newspaper is a newspaper text, paper suffers everything. Today, in the paper, anyone can write anything, and what they think and what they sometimes think not so much, but they want to give the spoon sooner or later. And the statement in the document, last time I quoted it, I'll repeat it again, it's very instructive. It begins - Serbia is on its way to the European Union. Serbia is on its way to the European Union. On this road, everyone should remember, everyone to keep reminding themselves of it, because the European Union road involves free flow and goods and people, but also health services and patients, and tomorrow you will be able to use your good, modern health insurance in a regulated country to have a health care service without any problems in other members of the European family's common society and you will be able to say as doctors – the minister has prescribed much strict regulations for the license, and in Hungary they are milder, I will decide to work in Hungary. It's not that far. So for us and our generation maybe not so close, but the young will have what we leave them. One equal, active co-operation with international partners is a guarantee that we will be able to implement these regulations. We don't have tutors, we have partners; we don't have someone who dictates and lets us translate, no, but a partner who sits, listens to the arguments, and then we agree on something that is on the line supported by the World Health Organization, both the World Bank and the European Investment Bank. Finally, there is the European Union. A few days ago in the organization of the World Health Organization and the European Union, more specifically the European Agency for Reconstruction, held a one-day meeting. Do you know what his theme was? The results of 2001-2005 are aided by the European Union to Serbia's health. There are many more results for pleasure, of course there's always a reason to do better and faster. What is decentralisation, and what is deconcentration, and why is the government making a decision on the percentage of funds returning to the branches? One of the solutions in the speech of one of the MPs - 70:30 is mentioned. It is a solution that Serbia already knew and sounds reasonable. However, in a situation where a poor country, as we still are, has great depravity and heterogeneity of the region, solidarity is not achieved, therefore, only at the level of the province, the district, the municipalities or the Republic. Solidarity must be achieved at the level of the Republic of Serbia. The government should carefully consider whether Bosilegrad deserves more to be returned to him because he needs to build five more ambulances, another 10 emergency stations, whether the same should be done by Belgrade or not, perhaps Belgrade should get a smaller percentage for local needs, while staying more in solidarity and that is the right measure. The government is responsible for this, and no one will be able to bring it without Parliament MPs, because the Assembly will stand behind the fund's financial plan and will know very clearly what it is that the government has proposed. Well, if the government has cheered a lot for Bosilegrad because of the lobbying of Bosilegrad, it can change; if the government thinks Belgrade is damaged, it can change that. That's why the government's corrective mechanism. So, solidarity of all citizens everywhere. decentralisation and centralization are not two halves, two sides of the medals, but are terrorism, and we are in a position to measure the health system over and over; it's a terrace or a toothpick that can't go here or there, but must be maintained in one metastasical balance. You have to try and keep it right all the time. What does that mean, practically? It must never be decentralised to plan quality, general interest, because these are institutions that the Republic must recognise as activities to be carried out for every citizen, and in Horgos, Dragaš, Bosilegrad, Leskovac, Paracino, Kikindi, everywhere. So the story of decentralisation and centralised is not so simple. These solutions we offer are one of the qualitative steps and certainly a sign of the maturity of the local self-government law that you yourself have voted in this assembly, the Law on Local Self-Government. For this reason, you will not only choose the directors of health homes in municipal assemblies and calculate the staffing of boards, but you will, for God's sake, have a founding right and obligation, because then I will send you an inspection, if I am then a health minister, who will control the quality of work in your home of health, and we will be seducing measures that will correct what is wrong with the local government, as you here correct what is ruining the executive rule. It's a division of power and it's called progress in democracy. We have to learn those lessons when we haven't taught them when the happy peoples finished that school. I am convinced that we will all be happy together with the adoption of laws in the field of health care and security and chamber laws, which will return the chambers to Serbia after six decades, as independent and professional associations that have public authority. You know better than me what public authority is, it's the authority that has power and it's given to chambers. So that the Red Cross will look different, that this package for Serbian citizens will mean a good sign, a step forward in regulating the rules. I am convinced that we are mature enough and responsible enough to implement these regulations properly and then to be in a situation that we will be in the next year, and that will be exactly five years from the last recording of the health status of the population, we will be able to tell what happened in the population in these five years and how we will continue, which are the direction of further activity. I apologize for the length, but I listened very carefully. I think I've listened to everyone, written down everyone's question, thought carefully about them and tried to answer you. I think it was my turn and I deserve at least so much understanding that the MPs listen to me. Thank you very much, see you tomorrow, I hope.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23075	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course, if the president says so now, we'll see each other tomorrow, but we see well, and I have to, because I can see well, to read to you, I ask for a little patience, Article 142, which says, "When the draft law ends, in particular, the right to the final word... "; not in public class, I wrote this Rules of Procedure and I would certainly put on a public class or write a limit, so I suppose MPs who have confidence in what the president of the Assembly proposes would vote it or not, a restriction to 10, 20, 30 or 47 minutes, as much as... The hour is ahead, we can always look, the speaker uses it in front of, so, that is, the authorised representative of the promoter. In accordance with this article, it is common, because this member implies that the final word after the debate in particular gives a proposal of the act, in which he thanks or does not thank the observations expressed, with all due respect to the dignity of the Assembly, not in the 45th minute of the words that speak about the measure, the equal amount of attention, the general interest and understanding, and in particular, as experienced and professional doctor, and you know how much you are personally dear to me, how much I respect you and how much I appreciate your expertise, as well as all of your colleagues who have spoken here, but not because of getting understanding or compassion or to afford; they have sought and expected much more understanding, but have had business restrictions. I ask that in all the following situations, both you personally and all those who come to this congregation, be me MPs or someone else, respect one fact. MPs have an obligation to make party views, to address their parties and to use a pay phone in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, limited, short, to explain something to the public. Please, the committees compare different knowledge and MPs trust those MPs who go on board and have no reason to repeat themselves. The MPs are sitting here today, sitting up to four o'clock tonight, and tomorrow they'll be sitting as long as they need and, as the chairman of the Health and Family Committee said, maybe the day after tomorrow. Why? On Monday, not the government's budget is adopted, as you have said more than once, but the state's budget, so that it may be free of imposed obligations, if at all possible, and it takes strength, health, sleepiness and I will ask, if you accept, to continue in the morning. And now let's hear just one short replica; I fully understand Mr. Momchilov's need, because we had an understanding of 47 minutes, we'll have an understanding for another three minutes. Tomorrow we continue to work in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23076	According to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman can even allow a word to be received after the closing word, even for how many minutes it is specified. I'll be very brief, I'll speak for three minutes. You've seen, Mr. Secretary has held an exposé of 47 minutes. He replaced us instead of telling us at first, but he feels the need for it himself and sees that this is hasty and needs further explanations. Those explanations could not have been on the committee itself, which had to work urgently and had no time to discuss this. The public hearing was held as it was carried out. I'll just look back on a few of Mr. Secretary's findings. He says we denied the principles, that we should be proud. We're not denying the principles, we're just saying they don't belong here. We were particularly bothered when you gave the principle, and then you denied the right. In particular, people from 65 years of age and older do not have the right to 100% protection and that is something that is absolutely contrary to certain principles. You said we're criticizing the previous internship and if you don't pay that a person can't be treated. We've read a letter, you haven't been here or you've been, the person who's been hit by this, who's a severe heart patient, who's been denied the right to compensation, who has a pension of 4,000 and who can't be treated. He clearly asks: "I find that I have been treated very incorrectly, inhumanely and unlawfully and that no one has the right to take my right to live in this situation. The doctor just made this shameful decision to euthanasia on me. I wonder who gave her that right - Minister, Government, Prime Minister, European Union or anyone else? "That is your provision, and we must defend the attitudes of the citizens. You've talked a lot about the health care law. I understand it's a connected package. You took some partial good indicators. These are the results of an earlier good organisation and duration, and the general mortality here is high, unfortunately, but not because we're a developed society, Mr. Minister, no, we're dying early. With us, it's a problem, people die before time, and that's a big problem with that general mortality. That's the rate to go from. I'll end up with one banal thing; all we've said is true. We differ conceptually, that's fine, but for recipes you're well read, it's not true that it was in the tender. It was won without a tender. (Tomica Milosavljevic, from the place: It is by law. ) "Stilos" won the tender earlier. When "Stilos" can go on the tender, the Bureau has to win the tender, and the price difference is 16.5 million. Your deputy says there's been damage to $4.8 million. Subtract 4 and 8 million from 16, so 8 million more costs these people this change. We were saying what he was. We won't have sex with you. It's a good thing you've been talking for so long, we understand that. The President of the Assembly has said some things to you again from parliamentary life, that you understand the situation, and that's not a bad thing, and we're going to hang out a little bit more in these next days, and I hope we can sort things out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-25-0.u23077	Thank you, Mr. Momchilov. We'll be working on the Rules of Procedure for the next few days, and we've announced the gathering to each other where there's room for some issues, on committees, right. Once again, I thank everyone for their responsibilities today. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because of the importance of the laws that are on the agenda and the necessity of the state to obtain a budget that will be able to secure stability in the negotiations, according to the resolution that you have voted on and in relation to everything that awaits us in the next period, I determine that tomorrow will work from 10.00 hours and we will begin the debate in detail on the 7th point of the agenda. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm closing the session and thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good morning. Before we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, I want to thank all of you who are present and all of you who are following in clubs and committees for your extraordinary responsibility and willingness to work today, and, if necessary, as Mr Momchilov said yesterday, and tomorrow, in order to bring forth our remarks in a valid manner by the MPs, by the parties, and that we may, in a responsible manner, consider the amendments that have already been discussed several times, because it is the procedure of the Assembly, both on committees, and on parliamentary clubs, and in talks, and in public debate and were in government during the draft law and after the amendments. But we must pay close attention to them once more. I needed to tell you this and thank you, because there is, and I felt uncomfortable about all of you, part of the people who are simply not prepared within their obligation to inform citizens to learn basic data. Last night, when we finished our work, the picture was shown, after your work almost half the night before yesterday, a picture of a president who, of course, reads only at the end of the amendment that will not be discussed by a parliamentary group who does not want for his own reasons to have another part of the amendment debate, and on that occasion, it was said that the Assembly only decides by a few MPs. It is amazing that people who deal with information cannot learn the basic and simple rule drawn by the Constitution and which no one can break, which is that the Assembly decides solely by most of the 250 MPs. Without it, it cannot begin to decide, and all the other ways of working, which of course are not always visible in front of the camera, are only part of the process, but the Assembly never decides without 126 MPs. I thank you once again that you are ready to work for the benefit of those who have chosen you in all the days of the year and, of course, we all together accept the decisions of the Assembly, and they are made in special voting days or on an urgent call, as they were yesterday, when you, with your presence of 133 MPs, have obtained conditions, decided to take away the immunity of those who are accused of corruption, so that the competent authorities can do their job. Once again, I hope that in future, according to the laws that you bring, the competent authorities will seek to speed up their work and thus achieve the right and justice that you are voting here. Thank you again for your patience at the beginning of this working day. We continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Ivana Kovacevic, Donka Banović, Suzana Grubjesic and Nadica Momirov. We move to the 7th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Red Cross of SRBJE (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs at the bill: Veroljub Stevanović, Živodarka Dacin, Goran Cvetanović, Paja Momčiov, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Milovan Radovanović, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Miroslav Nedeljković and Mileta Poscurica, as well as the Committee on Health and Family. The People's MP, Živodarka Dacin, withdrew the amendments to the article. 7, 15 and 16. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Legislative Committee, as well as from the Government on the amendments submitted. Also, the proposal to add a new member of 15a after Article 15a, which was directed by the Health and Family Committee, because the proposing representative had just accepted it, but you will be further informed, when it is on the agenda, that it has become an integral part of the bill. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On your behalf and on behalf of the MPs who are not in the room right now, I welcome visitors on the balcony, who are citizens, who also know that this is their house and they are now participating in the "open door". Thank you. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Cvetanovic, and I repeat my gratitude yesterday for a humanitarianally important gesture.
