ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 99 MPs attend the session without an electronic identification of the number of present in the hall. Please insert your cards, which is the obligation of all MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has confirmed that 88 MPs are present. And probably more. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Svilanovic, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milovan Markovic, Milorad Belic and Dejan Rajcic. We're moving on to the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Alexander Vukic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16237	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to ask the President of the National Assembly to give us an explanation of why we do not have a clear agenda this morning, why we do not have a clear Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because this has never happened. So, when the amendments were brought to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, at the next session, either after 24.00 hours, after 48.00 hours, or at any time, there was always a consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would be pleased if the president would tell us that it is a technical business that will be completed within three or four minutes. It's not right to work without such a Rules of Procedure, because no one can manage which member is injured, which member to call, you can still show him and explain, I'd say he's wrong and he's calling for the wrong member. I wouldn't want Serbia to go wrong, into lawlessness. It's obvious there's a lot going on. I have to say, it's interesting because last night we heard a few brilliant thoughts of a pathological liar, what a sad and unfortunate Natasha Kandic is. When she concluded that there was no evidence and that she knew nothing about Tomislav Nikolic, she said - yes, but it is said in the towers of the Assembly. That means in the bathroom there was Zarko Korać and Natasa Micic, or I don't know who, so we talked.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16238	I warn you, Mr. Wolf, the toilets are separated - male and female, don't make such comparisons. Please, it's rude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16239	So psychopathology and some other dangerous diseases spread across Serbia. Look at what kind of hickey and harangu spread these patients when they say something, and they usually call for law. When they don't have to call for justice and justice, they call for cults. Who was talking in the towers - you don't know, and where - you don't know. I'm not sure they know who he was in the bathroom with, Mr. President. That's how he answered this morning, that big thief and famous psychopath, President of the Vojvodina Bar, Slobodan Beljanski. You know him, Mr. Minister, it's that very dangerous thief, who not only steals money, but steals books; he takes and cheats. Isn't that right, Mr. Minister? And a degree. Is that right? So, one of the most experienced, most famous and recognized thieves, such as Slobodan Beljanski, appeared this morning and said, Branislav Blazic, who made some political declaration, as this one violates national peace, and you know in the Kikinda Municipality Assembly, the president of the Assembly is Hungarian, the majority population is Serbian, now it violates relations between Serbs, Romanians and all others. He issued a political declaration, and this thief came out and said, "It's a crime, I don't know what crime it is, but it's responsible for that." In this country, all sorts of things are possible, in this country all sorts of wonders happen. I call on you, too, President of the National Assembly, because I am convinced, regardless of our political differences which are drastic, unsurpassed, that you will have so much personal credibility, so much personal honesty that you point to both indiscriminate and insolentness, insolentness of anti-Serb hysteria and hysteria that is led against the heads of the largest parliamentary group in this House, Tomislav Nikolic. We don't need protection. We are sufficient to protect ourselves, but your position as president of the Serbian Parliament and the position of the president of all parliamentary clubs is necessary, because it is important to know what you think about how someone might violate the presumption of innocence, to say, there was someone there, we don't know exactly when, some have been killed, we don't know who, and we don't know when, but it doesn't matter, we've issued the most severe condemnation, without the beginning of any procedure. Is that somewhere, Mr. Minister? Is that somewhere in any country on a globe Earth? So, that these most insolent and reckless people dared to say, "There someone, because of the political declaration, committed a crime." If it's from that Ustasha sector, or whatever you want to call it, any one in Serbia, there's a lot. She's out of line, and I have to tell you that those who think they're gonna do something like that, that they're gonna make it, that they're gonna scare somebody, they're not. I'm sorry I overstepped time, I'm done. I'm just warning the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about what's going on in this country, that they're going to charge the whole of Serbia a little bit more, and that what they think they can make it up tomorrow and against your child, not against you. So, absolutely against everyone. And you watch what you do in that case. We're going to do everything, and that's why we're asking you, Minister Stojkovic, not to prevent justice, not to prevent justice, and we're asking the public prosecutor why he hasn't done anything so far, because this woman, a pathological liar, is obviously a dangerous psychopath, has openly admitted that she has nothing, that she doesn't know anything, that she's heard anything by the towers, told her Žarko Korać and his colleagues. So, since all that's been said, I don't know what else the DA's office is waiting for? What do you need, sour water to send him? We'll send him in 15 minutes, and that, if necessary, by the courier, or let him do his job. I don't know what he's going to do in his life if he doesn't react to these accusations and things like this. Thank you for your attention and excuse me one more time. I would like to tell you something else, to put on a referendum or to ask the citizens of Serbia what they think of both Natasa Kandic and those who support her, and about those occupation media that hold her side, you will see that they would be everywhere, only if they could, the persona non grata. There is no municipality in Serbia that would say one beautiful word about such anti-Serbs, such psychopaths. I call you to the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and this state. And as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we are going to push this battle to the end, and we are going to beat them and drive the bandits to jail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16240	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. Please, because of the seriousness of the work of this highest legislative body, I must warn everyone - both MPs and the public; as I have drawn your attention, to all MPs, with a lot of respect and despite creative ideas, which are not strictly sanctioned by the Rules of Procedure, I warn you that everything that may sound offensive must not be spoken at the expense of MPs. I would also ask you, for the seriousness of the work of this congregation, to choose words about all the officials chosen by this congregation. They're not just government officials, they're officials from different committees, which we've chosen, and whenever we use their names, I'm asking you to keep an eye on that. But, of course, I call on everyone because this assembly is based on basic legal postulates and citizens' wills, not just you who go out for this pay phone, not just officials who are elected, that and how we take care and react. The MPs are unprotected, except for the public words have no other option of protecting people, any kind of accusing people, on the grounds that someone heard something somewhere, it must first be condemned here, because then we have no chance of doing what is really important in the state, which is that the guilty are brought to justice. If we're talking political opponents as guilty, then that means we're in favour of lawlessness in the state. This parliament stands for the law. Of course, no one has rights and I will react whenever I can from my post, and I expect that each of you will react whenever anyone is accused without any evidence, and thus imposes the idea of mutual heifers and political extermination instead of working by law and justice. That's why we're here too in a situation where we're changing laws, and that sublegal act that applies to us, so now I'm answering your first question -- yes, it was divided yesterday, because it was published in the Official Messenger the night before last in the Rules of Procedure. Today, with the accompanying letter of the President of the Assembly, he was sent. I think it is just multiplying or sending to the services a consolidated text to be printed and that all 250 MPs will receive a complete text, and it will certainly be available after the legislative committee's work has been completed. It'll be Monday. But here we are, we have enough mutual trust and a way of controlling that in the meantime we are working on new members of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16241	According to the new Rules of Procedure, I don't know exactly what member he is, but I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. The fact is that today in a very important sphere -- which can be a good part and a decisive one, so that I can be even to the end dramatic, and crucial to Serbia's political destiny. However, with all the possible implications for the political fate of the Serbian people living outside Serbia in the countries in the ring of the environment, which were created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, we have hysteria, which many call anti-Serbian, so I would agree with that qualification. In any case, it is clear that everyone must see that a campaign against Serbia's state interests is under way. That campaign is run by this so-called. A non-governmental sector for which, if anything, we can say by taking into account the financial sponsors that are the installations of power centres that are outside our country. First of all, as the highest political institution of our people's political consciousness and political will, I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is obliged to determine according to this phenomenon, which is the least known as the campaign against the interests of the Serbian people and the state of Serbia. Since the facts that are respected as important, allegedly the political argument on this topic that I am talking about, the most frequently produced political structures, I think that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should at least launch one initiative and bring it to an end, and that is to consider and possibly form a committee to examine the truth about Srebrenica, in which there are insinuations for the involvement of the Serbian state in any way. So, just about the insinuations that launch that so-called. the non-governmental sector. We are an extremely important place in which only in the extreme case, transparently and publicly available, the public of Serbia can get acquainted with the opinion of its highest and sovereign representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16242	Thank you, Mr. Koicic. The word is Mr. Dacic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16243	Dear People's MPs, I have reported to the Rules of Procedure to ask the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put the draft law on the agenda of the National Assembly, which was sent on 17 March, and it has been said that we received it on 22 March this year, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and the proposal for a law to mark the day of mourning in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We are witnessing the politicalization of this issue. It seems to me that for the first time since the day of mourning, we have a proposal from a state body, or a territorial autonomy body, such as the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, that the day of mourning is marked by the events that took place 10 years ago in another country. This is a classic politicization of the issue. It hasn't been recorded since the anniversary of Comrade Tito's death with the sirens, that on that day the day of mourning took place several years ago. This bill of law, signed by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, states: "The day of mourning is declared after a particularly serious accident that causes people to die, wounding, severe damage to the health of people or in the event of the death of high-ranking state officials. A day of mourning can also be declared in the event of the death of a person who had high merit for the country, as well as for some tragic event, when the Government assesses so." It has not been defined and it has not been recorded, no matter what any of us thinks about these events and whether there are political reasons for this country to condemn the crimes that took place on the premises of the previous SFRY. This is a tragic politicisation of what happened in Srebrenica, involving the Democratic Party, Nenad Canak and his party and Bogoljub Karic. It's these patriotic parties that didn't remember -- they didn't propose a day of mourning for the anniversary of Flash or Storm, or the anniversary of Račka, or the bombing of our country. So I ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that, since the government has already proposed this law, and I thought this was one of the laws that is not so urgent for adoption, but it turns out to be very urgent, put on the agenda. Because in this country there's obviously an organized marking of a 10-year-old crime in Srebrenica, which is written somewhere abroad, that they're doing so-called. NGOs, headed by Natas Kandic, and where our Assembly, and the Assembly of Territorial Units and the Assembly of Municipalities should only be participants in the process of marking the event, so that our state, as it stood in the proposal for a Democratic Party resolution, would officially condemn the massacre or, as she wrote in the declaration's proposal, "mass war crimes against Bosniak people in Srebrenica". We are for the condemnation of war crimes, but everyone on the territory of the previous Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and we consider such a move by the duchy government to be absolute politics, which can cause enormous harm to our people and our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16244	Thank you. I'll give you my word on the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligruditch. I understand, which I never do from this place, so I have to repeat my personal attitude once again, as far as everyone is concerned, I apologize once again, and that, please, is disgusted by the attempt of the public to manipulate the victims and use them for political purposes. Even worse, to manipulate the innocence of the people seen, even the messengers of the National Assembly. But here are the responsible people, the most responsible representatives of the citizens. Please let us all take care of this and make sure that we don't hurt anyone with our performances. Please, because it will affect the dignity of this assembly and strengthen the fact that it is the highest and most significant level of government. Please take care of that. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16245	Here in this house is mentioned the name Bogoljub Karic and his political party again, and that is not good, for the simple reason it is not a normal and ordinary political party, but it is about the greatest political evil in the moment that exists in Serbia, which is simply because it reaches for those funds in politics for which no one in the country would normally reach and turn Serbia's political scene into an ordinary political financial stock market. That guy can, and his political party, do whatever he wants. There is no wonder of him, neither in the Vojvodina nor in the various coalitions that are being made there. No wonder what he tried here in the Serbian Parliament. He did it in part, you all know very well what the relationship of the entire parliament to this matter is. As for denunciation of our fellow citizens, MPs and officials, false accusation and violation of something called the assumption of innocence, it is very important for us to build a solid state, a firm legal system, a good judiciary, which, of course, serves these points of the agenda that are under consideration today, so that we can do what it takes to protect this country from what it is. First of all, to protect the citizens from violating the presumption of innocence by the state authorities, and what we have today, we have a good situation that the state authorities in no way in this country are violating presummation, i.e.. Presumption of innocence. As for the various characters in various so-called. NGOs, they are so-called because we, unfortunately, have not yet developed the right civil sector in Serbia, such characters, as Natasa Kandic is mentioned here, should not be used for the reason that they are called or for this speaker come out of the public today, which we have had the opportunity to see behind this speaker. It is not good if such characters can in this way challenge the need to go out and speak according to the Rules of Procedure, and in this way we must conduct a discussion in this Parliament. Therefore, I hope that we will have enough power for this country to go this way, to strengthen the legal system and the judiciary, and then simply leave it to the mechanism, which will work on its own and protect all the citizens and all their representatives in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16246	Thank you very much. We move to a joint general search of the 1-7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSALS ON THE AMENDMENTS OF THE COURT OF COURT OF COURT, COURT OF COURT, ORGANISATION AND AUTHORITY OF THE State AUTHORITIES IN THE SUGANISATION OF THE ORGANISED CRIME, THE COURT OF WAR CRIMES AND THE FIELD OF THE CRIMES IN THE SUSTRY OF THE COUNTRY OF THE NATIONAL PUBLICATION TO HAVE THE COMMUNITY INSTRUCTION OF THE COMMUNITY TO HAVE THE COMMUNITY INST THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMUNITY IN CONCESSMENT OF THE COMMUNITY TO THE COMMON DECTION OF THE COMMUNITY OF THE COMMON CRITION, The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups by a proportion of MPs. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, Democratic Party-Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, Serbian Renewal Movement - New Serbia - 21 minutes 36 seconds, and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, three SDP MPs and one independent MP, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the High Council of Justice, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Taxes, Proposal for a Law amending the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state bodies in the fight against organised crime, Proposal for a Law amending the law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the war crimes proceedings and a bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of state bodies to combat high-tech crime. Does the proposing representative, Zoran Stojkovic, the minister of justice, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16247	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are seven laws ahead of you, but it's essentially two related things. The first six laws concern, in fact, the issue of the position of the judiciary and the improvement of material conditions, i.e. the personal income of legal holders. The second part concerns the so-called. Cyber crime, high-tech crime, or attempt by this country to counter valid piracy, which is increasingly dominated by the application of new technological methods and technical means. You know that so far income has been paid under the Law of Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, because the existing Law on Judges de facto was inapplicable. It has not been for four years, as far as it has been considered in budget planning, whether the budget law was passed, or the budget system law. That was clear, because de facto if we were to be considered then, we would be in a situation which, behold, can now be repeated after such a decision by the Constitutional Court. We will try to respect her in a proper manner and agree with the law what the Constitutional Court requires. If she were to be respected as they suggest, the government could come to a simple conclusion tomorrow and say that 19 of us there are paying 30,000 and that the judiciary is driving them to the streets, the maltenes, with salaries. We won't do it, because we won't deal with politics. We are going to try a really appropriate way to solve this issue, at least as a transitional, as long as that valid law on salaries in state authorities and public services, where work will really be valorised, quality of work will be determined, a clear distance between those who work and those who do not work and the number of function holders needed to perform judicial action. With that in mind, we are introducing judges into that valid legislative system, so that they do not depend to the greatest extent on the executive authority, as is the case now, so that we try to raise incomes, because we do not think it is right for the holders of judicial functions, and, above all, judges and prosecutors, have lower incomes from officials in local authorities. For these reasons, I say, we are making these adequate changes, and these five laws that follow and this first one are essentially just amendments to those provisions that need to fit into these amendments to the Law on Judges. Also, I want to point out that this is how the arrivals are raised. There were stories that the executive government allegedly wanted to dominate, which is not true. Today, the executive power under the existing laws has an impact on this because when you look at the Budget Law, the Budgetary System Act, I would be the one to pay out of the Treasury, and on the other hand, it is the Government that determines the basics. For the first time, we give greater authority to the judiciary, and we raise our income again, in order to enable that key thing. There are objections, and I agree that they are justified, that the judiciary today is not the best quality and that it is not effective enough. However, if we have completed that legislative framework, there are two problems that we have to solve, and one of the conditions is to improve their material situation above all. When I speak materially, I think we provide them with working conditions, such as opening new courtrooms and new spaces, that they can judge, and on the other hand, to raise their income, in order to ensure smooth work on the cases they operate on. Don't tie it to corruption, but to the normal working conditions of those people who do one complex and serious job. In this way, we can fight that in time they really take that place as the third independent body of government and as the only authority that can bring us all under the law and order. In that situation, we may not even have these discussions that we had before the start of this agenda. The second law that's tied to these five, it's a tax law. There's a fact that the funds don't have enough in the budget and one part has to be financed from the cab. The proposal was to raise some taxes, but half of the existing inflation that happened in this period. On the other hand, the desire was to change that relationship, so that it would not go 50% to the budget, and 50% to the judiciary to improve its working conditions, but to be 60% to the judiciary and 40% to the budget. The seventh law, I think he's the most significant, is related to these changes. Basically, we have a situation similar to all transition countries, and rich and non-transitional countries, such as China, Russia and the like, where it is said: you cannot enter any world trade organisation with pirates in this proportion or treat others equally on the world market. We have to stop piracy, we have to protect copyright and intellectual property. The only option is to form specialized organs, which will have enough technique, enough escorts in the police's organs to hit that centre of piracy. So far, we've got the law, we've got the prosecution, but you've seen the situation going on: they're chasing this poor girl who sells 10-20 CDs to survive. That's how the piratery never got rid of it, because there's no assault on that real center. It is now increasingly being done with the help of these new technologies, via the Internet, etc. In order to do that, we need to make these changes, but right now, I know that there have been remarks that this could endanger the unity of the justice system, which is not true. Because if you've paid good attention, a specialised prosecutor exists, but in courts there are no more special departments than bigger. You and now have a greater specialty in the copyright trial and intellectual property rights, but it does not break the court's unity. For those reasons, I think this is the only right way to do what needs to be done. You remember well, for example. foreign exchange trade. There were stories of chasing those dealers who sold 5-10 marks to our citizens and, of course, they couldn't stop. When these appropriate methods are applied, and they were done properly in all countries, including us, simply, the banks are tight enough not to let money on the street. Does he have dealers? No, I don't see any. So that's the story. It's got to hit the center, not the aftermath. That's the only way we're gonna solve this problem. For these reasons, I appeal to the Assembly to accept these changes, because if we want to have both an efficient and quality judiciary, which is not the case today, I agree, we have to give them the opportunity, even by improving the material conditions, that they succeed. As for calling me, as minister, by Mr. Vukic, I don't think it was necessary. You've known me long enough, and you know what the government is doing and how we care to apply, first of all, the law and to strengthen the institutions, to apply those laws that we're making here. Therefore, as a lawyer and minister of justice, be sure, I will never deviate from that basic legal principle that has been right for thousands of years, which is presummation of innocence. Every citizen of this country is innocent until proven guilty. I heard that worrying story yesterday, "Let him come to court and prove his innocence." You know, there was this wonderful Max in Russia, and she's actually the rest of those people's minds. At the third or fourth Congress of the Communist Party of Russia, Mr Vishinski went out publicly and proudly said, "As our esteemed comrade Barry said, every Russian citizen is suspicious until he proves otherwise." We have to deal with such mining remains in some, and we can only do so if we fight to comply with the law and that the institutions in charge of this law apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16248	Due to the concerns of all MPs, I repeat once again, certainly all authorities will take their jobs, and I hope for what is even more than spreading racial, religious and national hatred. And I watched even last night's attempts to spread hate by people's looks: whether they're bald, whether they have hair, whether they have beards, whether they don't have and that's why they should be brought to court and exterminated. It's more than a genocide announcement, but I hope that all such people will be sanctioned, but in accordance with the law, no one is to blame in advance. Just to inform the MPs that we also have authorised representatives for these agenda points: in front of DS MP Milan Markovic; in front of DSS MP Petar Cvetkovic; in front of G17 plus MP Vladimir Homan. I'm asking if the committees want a word. The Justice and Administration Committee, Jovan Palalic? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee, Milos Aligrudić? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Please, MP Aleksandar Vucic, deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS considers, above all, that when talking about wages, it was necessary to do everything possible to increase the reception and improvement of the material position not only to judges, but to all those employed in the domestic justice system. Everyone who knows the judiciary knows that sometimes professional associates do the same important work, not to say that it often happens to work more than the judges themselves, and they live in a really big misery and barely patch up the end. At the same time, we are against this increase in taxis. But what I'm most interested in right now is talking about this law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to fight high-tech crime. Today, in Serbia, we are really facing high-tech crime. So, since Robespere, who invented the law on suspects, there is a group of bandits in this country, highly technically educated, of course, who daily spreads false news through their occupation media, invents, deals with naked banditism and crime, and has the support of the most famous thieves in Serbia. One of the most famous, proven thieves in Serbia, Mr. Minister, is the President of the Vojvodina Bar, I expected you to react, a certain Slobodan Beljanski. He's generally known as a thief and you all know it, the man even falsified his diploma. Everything he's done in his life, he's stolen. There are indications that he even falsified the birth certificate. The thief dared to say yesterday that Branislav Blazic committed some kind of crime over some personal political declaration about this cyber banditism, Natasha Kandic, and some occupation media. I have to admit, I didn't know that Mr. Predrag Markovic had crossed into the SRS last night because I heard that radicals were the beards, with the stones, with the slaughter, and he doesn't know what. I don't have a beard, Mr. Markovic has a way, as you can see, and he's proud of it. He has not yet shown us any interest, or any other props, which these cyber bandits, led by Natasa Kandic and this white-world thief as Slobodan Beljanski, have so far shown. So it is true that the proof of innocence existed only at the time of Barry. Even Stalin didn't want it. Simply, the man had compared to these bandits led by Natasa Kandic in broad sight. A very broad view of Natasa Kandic, and he had no idea he was looking for it. To get to him, to prove that he could be much worse than he imagined, he asked for it and insisted on it. Now, you don't have to prove guilty. Listen, now you're proving guilty somewhere in court. They're all suspicious. You have to prove you're innocent. If you don't happen to prove you're innocent, you know what's coming to you: Gulag, Goli Island or whatever you want and whatever you want. We must fight against this kind of cyber banditism today in Serbia. We have to fight because this type of bandit has occupied many media outlets and they think they can do whatever they want in this country and that someone should always be afraid of them, because they're able bandits to do something about you over their informative houses every day. I watched their surprise, I spoke in a stands in New Belgrade, and they wonder how I could say something about them. Imagine, they're holy fathers, about, so now you're going to say something about the untouchable Veran Matic, imagine that, such intellectual potential, of a genius who receives so many years of money from abroad. He hasn't learned three sentences in English yet to speak. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, that in the context of this bill against cyber banditism, you hire English professors to teach these bandits, led by Natasa Kandic, to learn something, that sometimes they know something, and I thank the citizens of Serbia for what they give, I would say, in the last few years, never more support for those who oppose this kind of banditism. Believe it or not, we have literally thousands of calls a day in the centre of the party, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And now to be quite serious, those who play with it, those who think it's possible that this kind of campaign leads, don't count on people's anger. We as serious people today try to calm the people and tell them - don't worry people, the rule of law will have to react, regardless of what we have numerous objections. I ask you, Mr. Minister, what is there to comment on the press verdict against certain Cvvetan Natasa Kandic and officials of individual embassies? What are they? Are they supervisors, Mr. Minister, here? Did you see that? You saw it, it was in all the media. They came and asked the top bandit, Natasu Kandic, how he felt about this verdict. The top bandit answers and says, "I'm happy." I'm happy to go on there. She's got a cigarette in her mouth, they haven't taught her to throw a cigarette out of her mouth while she's talking about the media. Let me ask you, who is she? Is she the President of the Supreme Court? I didn't know the President of the Supreme Court had the right to behave like that. Is she the President of the Constitutional Court, the Minister of Justice, what is she in this country, Mr. Minister? Some clerk showed up, some embassies, and he says, "I'm very pleased with this verdict." Who the hell are you to be satisfied? What the hell are you to be satisfied with, man? What the hell is wrong with you people, what are you turning this country into? I don't believe anything after all these lies, I don't trust anyone else that someone did anything anywhere when I see what they've done with Tom Nikolic right now. Take a look at today's Soroshevian, also anti-Serbian "Light" Kragujeva. Because of course they know that Tom Nikolic didn't do anything, then they're trying to make fun of him, so they say, you know, he didn't even know he was carrying a gun or I don't know what. Now make a deal more, you hysterical anti-Serbs, whether he committed crimes there or didn't even know how to hold a gun. So after you found out, they say there now -- he arrived after December 1st, so we ask them, "Who was killed there in that period, who's dead?" Tell him something about it or he'll be going to Natasa Kandic in courts forever, so when I tell your judges, they're not yours, I don't mean anything personal against you, you know what I'm talking about, so the judges will have to talk, here we are, commended by Natasa Kandic, we will be elected in the next term. Who's Natasha Kandic? What is she? Natasa Kandic is an ordinary bandit who found himself in front of the Court of Justice saying that she is satisfied or dissatisfied with some verdict, and in the meantime, we have a bandit proposal for a separatist leadership from Vojvodina, which she says - it doesn't matter what our state is, and that we say a day of mourning, so that Serbia will condemn the whole, so that all citizens of Serbia are condemned. That's enough of you. There was also enough of that thief who stole a degree like Slobodan Beljanski, enough of Pajtic's banditism, and Kandić's banditism and everything else. There are enough citizens in Serbia who want to have their own country, who want to have their own country, their own people. Let them know, they thought they were gonna scare somebody, they're gonna scare somebody, so now they're gonna talk on their TV every day. Whatever they say worse, thank them for that, because the citizens of Serbia will know that this is all best for any of us who speak. As far as the SRS is concerned, we will responsibly invite citizens to be calm, dignified, to endure and to endure both the sheik and the harangu, to endure all the pressures, all the troubles and the troubles. On July 9th, at the Grand Hall of Sava Center, we will show the public that crimes are committed in the former Yugoslavia's area. I urge all citizens of Serbia to come to the Sava Centre on July 9th to see, not just one picture, but all images to see, not to look and listen to just what certain bandits and thieves say, but to see what is fundamental truth. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman, for the first 10 minutes, and I'll save the rest for later. If the state doesn't want to fight this cyber banditism, if they don't want the state, if someone doesn't think I'm uneducated, I know what it is, but I had to use it to talk about a more important topic right now, if the state doesn't want to fight in a different way, we will. We will take on that kind of responsibility to show the citizens of Serbia, to point out how they destroy and destroy Serbia. I see and thank the heads of parliament groups who were correct, who wanted to express their position on this matter, and to be correct, to answer them in such a way, as well as in one part Minister Stojkovic, but I want to tell you: there is not much left for us, because they are going to finally destroy and destroy Serbia. We have to stop and say -- enough, no more wars, no more of this, no more of that, but we have to answer them with political means and intelligence and different behavior. That is why we need as strong as possible, as strong as possible, as a single resistance to try to bring Serbia down and destroy it. That is why I call on all citizens to help us in this fight, to join us, because nothing interferes and is more important than Serbia and we have nothing more important than the future of our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16250	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16251	Dear fellow Members of the People, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS about this bill, namely one law and six amendments and additions to existing laws and reasons why I think they should be accepted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we believe that the issue of the material position of people in the judiciary is very important, and the SPS believes that these changes and additions to the laws relating to the material security of people in the judiciary should be supported, but I must say right away that I think, based on the experiences we have had over the past few years, that improving the material position of employees, if they could, should not apply to everyone, because people in the judiciary, judges and prosecutors deserve better wages, but all in the judiciary don't deserve better salaries. I am fully convinced that in the judiciary, both among judges and prosecutors, there are many honest, honest and hardworking people, who understand their work in the right way, that the laws adopted by the National Assembly apply in the best possible way, to convince Serbian citizens that the judiciary is independent of other branches of government, to convince citizens that the right must be respected and to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that justice exists in Serbia. When I said that all judges and prosecutors in Serbia do not deserve this salary increase and a better material position, there is plenty of evidence that, unfortunately, we socialists through our own, if I may say so, have collected our backs in the past few years, and in contact with people, ordinary citizens, we have come to the knowledge that individual judges, individual prosecutors, are absolutely abused of their function and are working in their own personal interest and who knows what people. Here are a few examples to confirm my thesis. Just remember how many problems there have been, complaints, complaints from citizens about this robbery privatisation, which has been going on since 2001 and so on. The Board of Appeals, I say since 2001, I am not separating the whole privatisation process that has been implemented under the new law, because for us Socialists it was one legal framework to commit a terrible robbery in the Republic of Serbia. I cannot help but mention the praise of the then competent minister that a thousand of the best companies were sold for two billion euros, not to mention that 40 per cent of Telekom was sold at the time of the SPS by 1,536.000,000, which in itself speaks of a large gap between 49 per cent of the value of one company and a thousand of the best companies. I mentioned the robbery privatisation for the reasons that there were a lot of companies that entered the privatisation process, where privatisation was done in a way that there were a dozen complaints, lawsuits, criminal charges and almost none of that was solved. All those items, or a huge number of objects, where the naked eye can be seen to be a robbery, remained unsolved, various procedurally, so to speak, the techniques, the problems weren't solved and we had all the situation for the new owner to move into those rooms, fire the workers, become the owner of the entire company, and then the thing goes to the conscience of the individuals who judge the case. An example of privatisation and the behaviour of the judiciary is, to put it this way, a serious slap on people in the judiciary and they need to be aware of it. There's no reason for all the people in the judiciary to complain when we talk about these things. Justice people must understand that the National Assembly has now become the only place where citizens of the Republic of Serbia, through their MPs, can say something about their position, the work of the judiciary and the problems they face. Namely, the ministry, regardless of its jurisdiction, is not all-powerful, as citizens also complain to the justice ministry, complain to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and complain about the work of the judiciary, because they know that they cannot find a way in most people to solve their problems. They don't complain because they don't know what they're going to do with them or what they're going to do with the money, because every complaint requires certain material costs, but they think that they can get part of what the Constitution says they should belong to them, which is that there is justice and justice. I must mention another example that the question of the material status of employees in the past term of the DS, at the time of the DS government, has been misused. When you change judges, and there was a number, it seems to me to be 153, so switch to 160, and then you say that judges will have a thousand marks, raise salaries, then you create one dam for those people you chose to work marketingly tomorrow, because then the judiciary was absolutely subordinated to the executive authority. We Socialists believe that there are examples of people from the judiciary, first they should pay attention, and they should look at what is done in the judiciary, so that full mouths can ask the National Assembly and other independences, for which so much everyone advocates. It is not disputed for us that there should be an independent judiciary. But I have to say one more thing, I haven't noticed in these few years the story of the need for independence of any court, the quality of the work of the judiciary, the choice of the best people, I haven't noticed that within the judicial authorities, I don't separate the judges and prosecutors, that any of those people who've done bad work have been animated, I haven't noticed that someone has been replaced, that one of them is away from the service because of unconscious and unprofessional work, and let alone has been given any other way to know that it doesn't. After all, we, hopefully, will also have a debate in this esteemed home when we talk about human affairs in the judiciary and you will see, then there will be plenty of examples of how it is done, so I hope that then and from other people in the judiciary we will be in a position to hear what they have done, in areas where they are first among the equals, that those bad examples are eliminated. If there were bad examples, we're all aware of that and it's not controversial. I consider my moral and political commitment to mention a few examples of this unconscious, unprofessional, incorrect, and if you want party work in the judiciary, and I don't think it benefits the people of the judiciary themselves, let alone the state of Serbia. The latest example we have faced from the SPS is an example of resolving the business space issue in the municipality of Novi Belgrade, where we have had a frantic situation that SO Novi Belgrade has filed a lawsuit against us, so against the SPS, with the claim that we are not property owners, and we have been using this space for 15 years. When, after we got that lawsuit, we met with its contents and went and saw the land books of the Zemun municipality, because there's a cadastre on immovableity, then we found that someone illegally deleted the name of the SPS as the owner of that space. We immediately filed a complaint and have a state of play. The same court, according to the SO Novi Belgrade suit, has done a job within some legal deadlines and ruled, of course, in favour of SO Novi Belgrade, not wanting to look at the same time, let alone to enter into the issue of the SPS lawsuit which has also stood for three years and, hopefully, what everyone knows is that an illegal removal of the SPS from the list of owners of that space has been done. So we have a situation that out of the two lawsuits, which are practically filed at the same time, one is solved, and the other is three years, and then you convince us there's no bias, and then you convince us there's no politics. Or, after three years we ask that item be put on the agenda, and you know it, put it on the agenda after four and a half months. Then the people of the judiciary need to convince us that they are doing things according to the law and that they are doing absolutely professionally and impartially. You'll see plenty of examples that show that certain people are being sued, the president of the municipalities on the inside, and these lawsuits are not being put on the agenda, even three, four, and up to five years. It's about individual court presidents, and I'll talk about them when these personnel things are on the agenda. I have to mention that I really sometimes get personally fraternised by how blind some people in the judiciary are in relation to what they're doing and think that the National Assembly, and especially citizens, don't have what's called memory, remember how they did and what they're expected to do. Here, in this House, I was in a situation to talk several times about the prosecutor, then the deputy prosecutor, who against his colleague, then presumed, filed a criminal charges for poaching. You know, the whole assembly laughed at the time, that he filed a criminal charges against his colleague for perjury, because that colleague of his, at that time, the municipal prosecutor committed a crime of perjury by pushing a hunting dog to the sickle, telling him - grab him, grab him, hold him, hold him, after which the deer was caught by that dog, killed, and thus caused enormous material damage. Is there anyone in this room who can think that a man like that can do a good job as a prosecutor? Of course not. Do the D.A.'s office think they should? Of course they do, because they suggested it. I am very interested, when the issue comes to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, how other fellow MPs will react on this issue. Because it shows how sometimes within the profession, inside the judiciary goes along with the line of non-addiction, when it is known that one of the colleagues is not doing the job properly, when it is known to be unprofessional, when it is known that he is not solving cases, but that he may be able to serve well in solving some political cases, then it is said - let's suggest him for a better function. It is the same independence of the judiciary, which the judiciary advocates. I don't think we should let that happen. We socialists, unfortunately, have been the subject of state terror over the past years from 2001 to practically 2004. In this state terror, unfortunately, some people from the judiciary have joined. They were involved in this state terror against the SPS, by filing criminal charges, which now, in 2005, when we read almost, we do not believe that a written man, let alone a prosecutor or a judge, can be put on the agenda and the issue should be asked. I'm deliberately saying this for the reason that we all need to understand once and for all: one side of the story is about the judiciary -- the independence of the judiciary, which we absolutely support; the other is the material position that we stand for and we accept these laws; the third is how people in the judiciary, within the judiciary, are treated in relation to the obligations they have under the laws governing their rights, duties and obligations. Justice people, in the Supreme Court and the prosecution must point out to their colleagues who compromise them themselves, not the National Assembly, not the citizens of Serbia, but themselves. If they don't act by law, if they don't work in the interest of citizens, then our country can't be good either. Finally, I would like to say that we will also accept this bill regarding the organisation and jurisdiction of state bodies to combat high-tech crime, because we believe that such a law of Serbia is needed at the time of these technological innovations that are with us, that we too must protect ourselves from such a type of crime. I think it's a good thing the Ministry is proposing a law like this. I think it's a good idea for the Assembly to adopt it. Once again, in the end, the Socialists will support these law proposals relating to the material position of judicial employees, for the material position of all people in the judiciary, but we are deeply convinced that all people in the judiciary do not deserve these salaries, because they have shown in their behaviour over the past years that they are not worthy of them. Thank you. President (Predrag Marković): Thank you. Do any of the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? Here you go, Mr. Milan Markovic has his word. Until Mr. Markovic arrives, I am taking the opportunity to inform you of the way this session will be conducted. So, the break will be at 14.00 to 15.00 to allow television to be included in the second direct transmission. I also ask all parliamentary groups to propose members of the Committee on Local Self-Government, which will soon have to be formed. Here you go, Mr. Markovic. I thank you, Mr. President. I will try to keep the agenda, however, although today's debate has gone far from the agenda. The assembly is lurking from patriotism, which means we're not writing very well, but as an opposition MP, it's not clear that my predecessor from the SPS, who made a series of remarks about the judiciary, the staff in the judiciary, mentions criminal privatisation, etc. Mr. Obradovic, you're a party in power. You are also a party supporting Justice Minister Mr Stojkovic, police minister, Mr Jocic. Without you, we wouldn't have been chosen, without you, this government wouldn't exist. Why don't you go out, talk to them and sort it out another way. You cannot support the government, vote for all the laws, including the Rules of Procedure, which we are working on now, then go out for a pay phone and criticise all of this to invest in the people. Take responsibility for the condition it is. Don't talk about criminal privatisation when in a year and a few days, as far as you're involved in power, I haven't heard that someone's been arrested, that someone's been convicted, that some of it's surfaced, and on the other hand every day we face a series of affairs that shake this government. It simply can't go two days without having an affair concerning the government of the Republic of Serbia that speaks of corruption, which speaks of the regime of the government with crime, organised crime, which simply brings citizens and this country into total doubt, where we are, what we are, what we are doing, where we are on the road, who we are in power, who is in opposition, etc. Then you come out here, discuss, my God, you've been exposed to state terror, etc. If you have been exposed to state terror, it is for every conviction and anyone who has exercised terror to be found, to establish his responsibility, to punish, if there is a responsibility. We'll be your allies here, because the Democratic Party has been under state terror for almost 15 years, not counting the three years it's been in power. (Zoran Krasic: What is a state terror? Mr. Krassic, I'll explain with pleasure, if you don't know. I think you know that well, since you were the government in the 1990s. I'm still going to try to get back to this bill. Mr. Minister, I'm going to be very direct, I'm going to give you the Democratic Party's position. You know that the legislative framework for Serbia's judiciary has been given by the Assembly in 2002. We then adopted together a certain set of laws on justice. These were laws proposed by the Democratic Party of Serbia. A large number of members of the Democratic Party at the time had reservations according to these legislative solutions. Now we are in a situation where you yourself are proposing to amend certain parts of these laws, which is ultimately due to your understanding that this law, which is now in force, does not correspond to reality. However, I must say that we disagree with the direction in which you want to change this law. We of the Democratic Party believe that in this way you want the judicial authority, to an even greater extent, to put under the yoke of the executive authority, or to significantly disrupt its independence. Practically, all those provisions that allow for the material independence of judges are lifted, and on the other hand it is given the authority of the Ministry of Justice, or you as minister, that all decisions made by the High Council of Justice, relating to the material position of the judges, must be given your consent. We think that you are directly interfering with this, or that you are further disrupting the independence of the judiciary, and otherwise we believe that it has long been damaged and that we have practically not established it. Perhaps that year during 2002 - 2003, we did not establish an independent judiciary, or we were not on his trail. On the other hand, after the repeal of these provisions of the Law on Judges, the salaries of judges will be laid down by the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, on which the basis of the pay is practically determined by the Government. I don't think that's good anyway. I must say that there is a suspicion in the part of the public about your motive when you have proposed to the National Assembly of these laws: namely, in one follow-up to the entry into power of the Democratic Party of Serbia, that is, the formation of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, related to you personally, your attempt to replace Jovan Prijic, the special prosecutor; then an attempt to announce the abolition of a special court, or special department, but in a people known as the special court; then, remember, the transcripts of the intercepted conversation of Dejan Milenkovic – Bagzija and his defender Biljana Kayganic, etc. were published in the public. We are now in a situation where, after all this, you want judges and prosecutors who act in cases that have an element of organised crime to be placed in a position less favourable than the positions they have so far. In fact, you know that so far because of the complexity of the job, because of the risks these people are at, because of the need to be independent, courageous and motivated to prosecute and prosecute those who are part of organized crime, they have paid far more than they have tried in regular wards. You now want to reduce that difference. I think that this is how you will question the work on organised crime cases and practically weaken the ability of the state to deal with organised crime in our country, and I think it is a matter of a couple of excellencies for Serbia's future. In particular, I'll only talk about the judge's law. In principle, the same breed of legions for the rest of the laws. In Article 7, you predicted that the basic salary of a judge acting on criminal cases with an element of organised crime and war crimes could be increased, in addition to the increase in the position of the 2nd member, by 100%. So you're reducing that possibility, and you know it was far more, that it was 300 percent. Furthermore, in your explanation, you say-- however, this way will not reduce the salary of judges who are acting in organised crime and war crimes cases, but these salaries will actually rise, given the expected increase in wages. Mr. Minister, it's not about how nominal their salary will be. We can increase their salaries and salaries in regular courts, and have salaries such as ministers, but the difference will be lost between the position of those who commit war crimes and organised crime and those who do some acts that are not acts of organised crime, to the sight of theft, possibly robbery, etc. So, you're going to eliminate that difference, and anyone who does these acts of organized crime is going to say, why I'm risking my family, why I'm risking my life, why I'm even coming into a situation where someone from a congregation pay phone is attacking me, calling me a traitor, and that I have the same position as I would have to judge in regular courts. The bottom line is not that the nominal salary will be increased, but that these people must have special motivation, because the work and the risks they face are of a special character, and above all it is important that the state retains its own power of reckoning with organised crime. You know that after you came to power, there was a certain revision of a police action called "Sabbe." You know that in this kind of review of this action, which through the policy that you've conducted in the judiciary, which through the policy that Minister Jocic is conducting in the police, a large number of people who have participated in the state's accounting with organised crime have been removed from their posts. I think it sent a very bad message. I think that in the future we can come into a situation that few people will be willing to invest all their knowledge, all their authority and do their job by accounting with those who are the bearers of organized crime, because tomorrow it can change power and come under the influence of some kind of rematch. I don't think all of this was your intention to do so, but I think that in public, and you know it better than I do, there is in society and in the professional public a certain doubt about the motive that you are handling in your work, when it comes to the judiciary, as well as the entire government of Vojislav Kostunica, when it comes to organised crime. That's why I think it's generally wrong for you to propose here today. I think our judiciary is facing serious problems. I don't think you've fulfilled any pre-election promise in the matter of justice, except, of course, those changes in the choice of public prosecutors' ways that we supported, where you were absolutely right. I think that we have all come together in this assembly to some point that it is necessary to change this legal framework for the functioning of our judiciary and the Democratic Party, since you are still not going out with some new law proposal, will come out of the autumn with a proposal for a set of judicial laws that would replace these laws of the Democratic Party of Serbia, under which the judiciary has been functioning in previous years, because these laws clearly have not yielded results. Of course, the desire was to create a framework for an independent judiciary, but today we have practically come into a situation like that of social property - no one and no one else's. On the one hand, whenever we need to hide ourselves in a cloak - there is independence of the judiciary, and all of us who deal with politics or the judiciary know that there is nothing of this independence. Today, judicial control is simply due to political agreements between the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialists and the Serbian Radical Party. Why is it important that we do something about our justice? So it's not just the assessment from the Performance Study or I don't know what, we just have to do something to change the situation in our justice system because it's a question of further development of our society. A recent report on the World Bank's assessment has been published in a daily newspaper. I will be free to read to the MPs a few sentences from that report, because I think it is important that those who have not had the opportunity to read should learn about these data and in a different way look at the position of the judiciary, because it is not only the position of prosecution and punishment of those who have committed crimes and not just the protection of the rights of citizens who come before the court to protect and exercise their right, but rather the issue of economic development. I quote part of this text: "The 15-year experience of transition countries warns that due to the high degree of corruption, or inefficient judicial system, the growth of gross social product can be reduced by 15%, according to research by the World Bank in 26 countries in transition." So this is not something theoretical, this is an empirical study, which has been conducted in countries that have been transitioned before us. "The slow reform of the judiciary is an obstacle to the faster growth of transition countries, because investors do not want to invest in environments where the judiciary is not independent, responsible and efficient." This, in principle, we knew without them. What is interesting for all of us here and what is needed in the extreme case that citizens know that they would understand the complexity of this problem, which is somewhat justified by those of us who after 5 October wanted to make some reforms, is that there is no universal recipe for change in the judiciary, and therefore the strategy has to be made according to the real situation and the needs of each of the countries. But it has to be the highest priority. It's the World Bank's position. In line with the fact that this should be the highest priority, we think that we are at some point recently, that is, past time, but we should also talk today about the overall legislative framework in which our judiciary works. I will be free to present on behalf of the Democratic Party a few ideas on which our proposal will be based or if the Ministry comes up with a similar proposal, which we will be pleased to support, and we are ready together with the current government to work on and to pass one set of these laws. In fact, I think that change in the judiciary generally requires a broader consensus of political parties. No government alone, with such a thin coalition, a thin majority, will be able to make the changes in the judiciary that we need. This proposal will be based on what we all stand for together, which is to increase independence and independence, and on the other hand to highlight responsibility. As far as independence and independence are concerned, we believe that this must be foreseen by the new constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the Assembly should be excluded from the process of electing judicial officials in this way as it is now involved. Of course, until that happens, it is possible for the transitional solution to be made in the following: it is about how members of the High Council of Justice are elected and whether the High Council of Justice should have called on members at all. That is one serious question, which we are still considering about the involvement of the executive body in the High Council of Justice. But it is certain that we must not allow what happened now and what otherwise happened in 2002, which is to create a conservative oligarchy of the judiciary itself, which will be power over the judiciary itself. So, when this oligarchy is created, it does not have the legitimacy of democratic elections within the judicial authorities themselves, when it is created, whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether the Committee for the Justice of the National Assembly or whether the oligarchy will exercise power over the judiciary. Basically, we get the same thing, which is that the judiciary isn't independent of some kind of power center. We propose this: that members of the High Council of Justice from the ranks of public prosecutors should be elected in the elections that would be conducted within the public prosecutor's profession. Whether it will be a direct choice for a candidate who is running to be a member of the High Council of Justice or will be intervened, by having some assembly or some independent public prosecutor's body, we are not going into it. It's a matter we can work out. Ideally, we need to agree that the holders of judicial functions choose their own representatives in their largest body. Such a democratic procedure and such a democratic way of choosing the holders of judicial functions will also give legitimacy to the body that should be the Supreme Judicial Authority. How is the High Council of Justice supposed to function? First, the sessions must be public, it must be public what happens at the Council of Justice session. During the elections in the High Council of Justice, a certain representation of prosecutors or judges must be respected, as judges are also elected by the same principle, their representation from all parts of Serbia and from all levels of the prosecutor's or judge's branch must be possible. So there must be a number of institutions from the municipal level, a certain number from the county level and one from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Supreme Court of Serbia. The decision must be different than it is now, it is not only easy to narrate the majority and get a decision, that is, to vote on a proposal for a judicial function bearer. A system of qualified majority must be introduced, which will include most of each representation of a particular part of those who delegate to the High Council of Justice. Who's supposed to delegate? It should be the majority of the judicial organisation, the public prosecutor's organisation, part of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it will be excluded by the adoption of a new constitution in general from this job we're talking about and the normal part of the bar. I'm sorry, because I think that I need MPs with a little more attention to talk about lawyers, and especially about prominent personalities, and especially about those who have been elected by the bar themselves to be their representatives. I think it could have been pointed out by Minister Stojkovic himself or by the chairman of a recent discussion. Discipline responsibility is very important. A colleague, Zarko Obradovic, noticed well earlier that we do not have any information that someone has been punished and resolved for being unsupervised, because he is even illegally working, etc. The situation in the judiciary is catastrophic on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have no one responsible for that condition. Everyone washes their hands of responsibility. The minister says, I don't know, the judiciary is independent. And the High Council of Justice says, we don't know, it does a great personal greater, it determines responsibility. And they say, we don't know, we're overcrowded with objects, and it goes that way in circles. We don't have a built system. One of the problems is that there is not a well-built system of criminal measures that would be applied to those who do not work adequately and in the extreme case must be made the difference between those who are only unsustainable to some extent or do not come at the appropriate time to work and those who are willing to make very serious use of the powers that the state has given them by performing such a significant function as being a judge or a public prosecutor. There are a number of other things, but one specifically applies to you now, Mr Stojkovic, and to this authority. We have already suggested that the judiciary has an independent budget. According to Article 15. The Budget Law is a commanding officer, and it's not at all questionable. Why didn't you, as an advocate of an independent judiciary, say when that budget was made, no, I don't want to be the man who's going to command the budget for the judicial authorities, we need to strive for their independence, so be it. Regardless of your personal relationship, you may be able to do so, so that you all approve of what they ask for. It's not a question. Then why are you even burdening yourself with such a job and why in the overall ambience that I have stated you add, and there is one suspicion that you, behold, are deciding on it and that, I don't know, the President of the Court or the Supreme Court is asking you to approve the money for something. You will now approve of the money that should be paid, and of those who judge in courts, in special departments, of those whom I spoke earlier. I don't know why you want it, why you want to be the one to decide, I end up, about the fate of prosecutors or judges in the Special Court, in that you will practically depend on whether or not they will get that fee that is now reduced compared to what they used to be. And if I were you, I would absolutely not do it, and especially given that ambience that I initially presented to you, which I repeat, I do not believe there is any intention with you, but simply that achievement of the minister's circumstances is such that you've moved perhaps some of the stories that stand in some objective sequence of events, but in the wake of events in the country where it is. You're trying to end a special department or I don't know what, so it's normal for people to doubt your motive or function. I'll tell you right now, I don't doubt it, but I mean... (President): Please, time. )......................................................................................................... that your ministry in this position has not yielded the results we wanted, which is because of your inability to look at the width of this problem, which is because of the objective inability of the coalition you belong to. I believe it's not easy for you. You always have to balance between these positions of parties that are extremely diverse, on one side of the G17, and on the other side of the SPS, and I believe it's not easy for you. Anyway, you heard our proposal. If you do... (President: Time. ) If you are in this proposal, we will support you, and if not, we will take responsibility and if we come to the opportunity after the next elections, we will assume responsibility to give the judiciary genuine independence, but also to determine the responsibility of the holders of judicial functions, so that citizens have the right to timely protection of their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16252	Thank you. I'll give you my word, and first I have to give my word to the minister who answered, and then allow the replica of Mr. Krasic that was mentioned. Here you go, Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16253	I'm going to try to answer a few of the remarks that have been made, since I've only recorded them. As for the first remark, that this increase should apply to all employees, I should say immediately that this increase in taxis is actually going to apply to all employees, in addition to the increase followed by inflation. Last year, from these funds, we raised employees far more than judges. We've leveled the judges with the law, and we've raised more for employees. We want to do it here, and that's why we're looking for that 60-40% relationship to stay in the courts, so other employees can get it. As for the observation that not everyone should get, there is a system like this, all judges are equal and have the right to equal wages. The question of whether there are excess judges, the lack of judges, is being resolved in another way, when a rational network of courts and an adequate number of employees is being established. Normally, one part will also be dealt with by a new law on public service wages and public authorities. What makes me most of all, which is an observation, says the government is connected to organised crime. I don't know any new groups since we got here. I know they've been there from the past. I don't know any government members that had anything to do with those organized crime groups, and I sure as hell know. I don't know any new tycoon that's been created at this time without being from the previous period. So don't impute anything that can't stand for sure. I'm saying there's been a replacement of thesis. The alleged reform of the judiciary has been discussed, so this government is not working, and they will do so from the previous government. Can they say, because of the morals and the basic elements of morality, what was done, and until this government arrived they were in power. The conclusion was that it was a tragic situation and that it went backwards, from zero, that's the Council of Europe's conclusion. So, a little worse than Milosevic's time. Why? Talk about an independent prosecutor's office, and first of all, there's a terrible mistake here, and it shows itself rich and ignorant when it comes to an independent judiciary, it's about courts. There are independent courts everywhere in the world as the third power. And even with us, there are no independent prosecutors, but you have prosecutors who are independent, but they are part of the authorities. The state has entrusted them with prosecution, and all over the world the executive government, and here is the minister, setting them up. Look at that America they're all calling for. Mr. Bush says, "The D.A. is the one. "So don't sow the fog on this people. The problem is in the prosecution, I agree, but what does not happen is that the predecessors, before Mr Markovic, clearly speak of the following: you changed the laws in 2002 and 2003, to set up listeners, who knew nothing, had no legal conditions to be prosecutors and deputies. And that's how -- that my predecessor chose how he turned to him and suggested, and the government chose. You ruined the D.A.'s office. We gave him independence, not because we don't know that the prosecution isn't a court, but just to protect him from any later changes, the coming of some similar to power, and that the prosecution may experience such cataclysm. Unfortunately, we have the condition we have left. When you ask why there's no solving of the affair - everything stands there. I went public and said that prosecutors and courts are obliged to do their job, because that's why this people separates from their mouths and pays into their budgets. Prosecutors and judges are required to act, these by trial, and these by criminal charges. No one has the right to ask them how they will act, whether they will release, condemn or reject criminal charges, or process them, but they are obliged to act, not stand in a drawer until old age. It's my right. I have the right to administrative oversight, but I've received criminal charges from your predecessors, where they've asked such a prosecutor to plead, because they say he's breaking the law, committing a crime of abuse of office, so they're asking for an emergency response, and the prosecutor is asking me to make a statement the next day. These are your staffs that do that. So don't ask me, because we're gonna do everything we can to make sure that these personnel are no longer in the D.A.'s office, but to be honest, honest, and professional people, who don't depend on any of the furniture that comes into power. As far as reform is concerned, I'd like to hear from you what reform it is. You have shown in the past three years what this means, so Europe has found that it is backwards, and the Constitutional Court has annulled all these provisions for you, saying they are unconstitutional. That was beneath every justice criterion. We brought what we brought, I know you can read, and you understand so much. The feasibility study makes it clear: Crucial laws have been passed. What's wrong now? It's missing, it says, quality and lacks up-to-date. Normally, corruption, which has been increased somewhat. If the quality is missing, go out and explain to the citizens how it could be a good court if you brought in people who didn't have the conditions to be judges or prosecutors under the law at the time, but you changed them, so it happened. If there's ineffectiveness, how can a judge who doesn't know, brought in, obeyed, but doesn't know how to work? It has to be inefficient. We do that, and for your information, a national strategy for judicial reform has been done. Two days was a round table, donors were present, all parties, judges and prosecutors. There have been objections. They are embedded and the tender is called, not that executive power is doing it but a professional organisation. One won, and we have a work version. He'll go back to the round table on July 2nd. You're all gonna get to know each other and I'm calling for all of you to participate, because it is a significant thing. Then you'll see what reform looks like. We're doing this reform as much as we can, but we have this brake, and we're slowly changing it. For your information, since these elections have been made and how people have been brought in, and I tell you right now, the problem is that the presidents were put up the way they were set up and where the bad president was, the court was destroyed. Where there was a good president, you had a good court. With these changes now, here's the information I've had since a few days ago, in the last five months 20% has been improved up-to-date. As far as corruption is concerned, ineffectiveness is not our specialty. We only have a difficult situation, it's been established, and now that I've gone to Helsinki - countries in transition and countries that have suffered wars, and ours has been under sanctions, surely it's been better ground for corruption and inefficiency, and impunity. That's what's been established. Corruption exists in all countries. Only where you have valid mechanisms, it's compressed to a very, very decent level. The information was then said that some of Europe's strongest countries were forced to suppress that legal corruption, because they say that the law was allowed to take a commission of 2, 3.5%, so it's said - you can't, then we're not all competitive equally, production is more expensive. What's most important and why we need to do it, besides these two previous things, is that anti-corruption awareness of people rises, because we need to know that it existed in the previous period: when they say thief, and he says – no, businessman; when they say fair, they say – no, fool. We have to turn that into the minds of people. I'll tell you right now, that's gonna be the hardest. However, we do so, and by all indications we are on track to finish it. Material things are a problem, but they're solved. I say, it will always be the biggest problem of all. For those reasons, please don't put anything in my mouth that's not true. I asked once, and I see it repeats itself. Please step outside and tell us when Minister Stojkovic replaced the special judge Prijic. Fifty times I've told the public that it's not my authority, it's the prosecutor's business. Secondly, when did Minister Stojkovic, as you say, abolish the Special Court? I just said, as a lawyer, that I know there's no special court. I can't stop something that's not there. I said the same thing, as a lawyer, and you know it, you have a duty to tell this people that, by entering the Council of Europe, we have signed a Declaration on the Protection of Human Rights, where one of the basic postulates is the right to a natural judge. The department was built without any criteria, directly against that provision. No matter how these trials take place, don't be sure tomorrow we won't pay an account of this kind of departmental formation and this kind of violation of that right. Then I'm afraid the whole country will pay. I've never said anything about the Sabre, except that we're already paying certain damages because of some illegal treatment, about 600 and some cases we've got for it, 400 and we're lucky to solve, the commission, in agreement, where we say it's the wrong state, it's a key satisfaction, so some small funds are being given. If we get into that situation to show up at Strasbourg, make sure this people pay very dearly. We try to remove it, you transfer and replace the thesis. I've never commented on "Sablja," but on this plan that there are already 600 and some objects and that we try to solve, and that the people pass as painlessly as possible. That was what I wanted to say. So please don't put anything in my mouth I didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16254	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16255	Since I was repeatedly mentioned and misread by Mr Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to say a few words. The SPS is not in power, but supports this government and will do so as long as the government is working in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We will be in power after the next elections, because I expect Serbian citizens to support, finally, honest parties and those who are autonomous, where decisions are not made in Brussels, Vienna, New York, Washington and other centres of international power. Secondly, I remain on the claim that privatisation in Serbia was a robbery: two billion euros for 1,000 of the best enterprises, in itself saying how much it was a robbery privatisation. I repeat once again, 49% Telecom, 49% of the value of one part of the Public Enterprise - 1.536 million at the time the Socialists sold it. If it was a robbery privatisation, it says the following: look, almost all the top people of DS or those who performed on behalf of DS have suddenly, in two or three years, arrived to provide themselves materially and who knows how many generations behind them. Ever since you look that some of them haven't even finished colleges, that they don't have work experience, work in the government, the minister, or whatever their first job was in life. They were presidents of the municipalities and who knows how they issued building permits and other things. Today they need to convince us that it wasn't there. Please don't. Why wasn't that the subject of justice? Because of the band that exists between the DS people and the ones they named in the judiciary. It's because of this splinter that you can't solve a problem today. The various procedural jokes of people who have been damaged have not been in a situation for the past years to solve their problems, let alone those who have been robbed during the privatisation. That's the facts. Look at the number of complaints in the Board of Appeals and look at the number of complaints in the Privatisation Committee, and everything is reportedly clean. He can't. Remember, at a time of emergency, the deputy prosecutors were named by law to the government, by law in the government, and then we're not talking about the regime of the executive and whoever was responsible at the time. Under three, we socialists have been conducted by a state terror and there is no doubt about it. The state kidnapped Milosevic. From here, Minister Djelic announced lawsuits before the prosecution delivered and prosecuted the cases. It was said from here that you and you did it and that, the famous 242 abuses of official position. An example at the time of "Sablje", your colleague Mr. Vucelic was arrested, was in prison as well as several socialists, members of the Executive Board, or members of the former leadership, on the grounds that they threatened the security of the state and the people. What happened after that? Nothing to anyone. And you're telling us there was no state terror. This is where DS installed one of Ivkovic's fake parties. This is where they gave you the quorum. And that was small, but they chose him as a member of Serbia's National Community Assembly of Serbia-Montenegro, so that he could vote on the fate of Yugoslavia and say there was no state terror. The media reported at the time of Sablje that special units were formed for Milosevic, SPS and Radicals. That was killing for Milosevic, SPS and radical purposes. Tell me that's not true, so we found out on the Security Committee that it never came out of the Ministry's office, but from the government's communications bureau. You're saying there was no state terror, you didn't want to apply the Law on People's MPs. We asked for our mandates in 2002. The Constitutional Court made that decision in 2003 and you're talking about it not being done. I'm standing at your disposal, come out here, and turn to the citizens of Serbia and say that's not true. Come out if you have cheeks, not there from the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16256	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16257	It's perfectly normal when MPs come out of this booth's mouth to tell Natasa Kandic that the MP has to ask a question, throw it away. That's how I threw Mr. Markovic away, and what state terrorism is. Of course, after the parolee, it's a tightie. He bit his tongue, didn't know how to explain it, but he spoke in the context of 15-year-old national terrorism. Of course, I reminded him of what it means, what that parole means, to just show what happened from October 5th to today, but I don't think any MP should use those words of national terrorism, because they are purely political paroles, which are used by NGOs that need to form and replace public opinion, and they are almost all against the people and this state. When any MP comes out and uses those famous words by Natasa Kandic and the entire NGO sector, I will ask what that means. Does this mean that for 15 years, the state was undemocratic, that no multi-party elections were held and that anyone who had been in power for 15 years could have been unpunished, irresponsible to carry out his own will. No one has ever proven that, except through parole, but what are the facts, since this yellow democracy has ruled, is also "Sabbe," and privatisation, and persecution of political opponents, and all the worst that can be thought of. Why? Because they came into a position to justify funds and trust from abroad. They were also funded by the American Embassy, and there's evidence for that, and the Resistance, and the student protest, and everything against this state. All of you who have been talking about state terrorism in Serbia for the past 15 years are on the side of those who want to accuse Serbia of committing war crimes and genocide. I must warn you of just one fact. There is no verdict in The Hague tribunal, and there are many who have become law-abiding, which finds that the Republic of Serbia has participated in any way in calling a war crime through Drina, regardless of how far it goes. Don't install anything that the Hague hasn't found, and every time you go out of the facts, out of the truth, out of evidence, out of law, out of justice, I'll always throw you out of the MP's seat and ask you what that term you're using means. Please stop with the paroles. If you cannot overcome the mental set of Natasha Kandić, do not go out for this pay phone, because we will professionally and in any other way disprove the nebuloses you are taking out of this pay phone. Take care, because every term goes in favor of our enemies. If you don't know, I have to inform you, we have enemies abroad, and we have them here. They are united to show that Serbia is guilty of everything and everything. You're on that path, and that's why I'm always going out to criticize you, and I'm not going to keep an eye on you, and I'm going to throw you out of the parliamentary seat, because you're saying something that's a lie. We're fighting lies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16258	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16259	And a replica of three exhibitions. I feel comfortable. This is one natural position for a DS member, when the DSS, the SRS and the SPS come up against him, and that is the natural position, the perspective of Serbia, and it is good for citizens to see it. I'll start by answering Mr. Krasic first. You didn't listen to the obvious whole exposure. I mentioned the word "state terror" in response to Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who said that he was applied to members of his party, and then I said that in any case, every such event should be investigated, the perpetrators should be called to account and punished if they carried out a state terror against people. That's what I said and it was all about that term of state terror. I didn't question anything further than that. You are simply burdened with Natasha Kandic. I can understand your burden, but don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. As far as the expertise you're potentialing, the state terrorism you're talking about doesn't exist. It's something that doesn't exist. Use the term state terror, and terrorism is a second term, that term is quite different and if you want to be professional, then try to master it. As for you, Mr. Obradovic, you say robbery privatisation, etc. There's hundreds of complaints coming in, so get rid of these complaints. If you were elected by citizens to be in power, solve it or tell people - yes, we are incompetent, there is nothing we can do. So we're so capable that you can't solve anything that we've done. That's how it works out. Don't embarrass yourself, take care of it or shut up about it. You won't be talking about the 2001 robbery privatisation for another 15, 20, 30 years. I don't know what kind of privatisation was, and I didn't do it, and neither was my profession, but as a lawyer, as a legalist, I'm simply asking you a question. Get rid of it. I know the DSS might need some refreshment, but you won't get it from me. So, that, Mr. Beard, is about those complaints. I do not dispute that there are complaints, most of them are probably not founded, there may be complaints, but don't go out for a pay phone, because then you abuse the fact that there are complaints, but do your best with the competent state authorities, the minister you chose and Minister Stojkovic, with whom you work extremely well, and deal with it. I don't know what's wrong with you, because I don't think it's okay, it's not normal. As for this terror, Mr. Obradic, you can't talk about any terror of the state. So, with all due respect to what you just stated, and with all the understanding of those who were unjustly struck by the state during the "Sabbe" action, I have to tell you that there were hundreds and thousands of examples of much worse terror towards the citizens at the time of the SPS. Please, let me finish, so you guys come out and talk again. You know what your authority looked like and what it looked like to beat people who glued posters, and I don't know if anyone's trying to stop you from putting up posters. I don't get it, please, well, I don't know what electricity beats us, but the fact is that you beat us and that's what I'm talking about. Let me finish, let me say, and you will. Do I have to remind you that at that time RTS served to keep people from qualified in the most cruel way possible, to write judgments through your regimeal newspapers and through your media, and that 29 murders were solved in Sabbe's action, and of those 29, 26 were committed during your government. I'm really wondering if, Mr. Obradic, it hurts so much that 29 murders in that "Sabre" action have been solved when you have so much against her. If it hadn't been for the "Sabbe" action, we wouldn't have known the truth about Ivan Stambolic or the others who died during your reign. Unfortunately, some like Mr. Slavko Curuvija don't even know the truth today, we don't know who killed him, but the indications are quite clear and whoever you're asking is the inspiration of that murder, by some miracle, everyone points to the SPS. So, Mr. Obradic, the worst thing you can do from this pay phone is talk about it. As for the robbery, do you really think that you need me to answer the question of the robbery that you've done, i.e. Your party has spent practically ten and over years in Serbia. (Chairman: Please, you've already been over two minutes.) And then you dragged Serbia into incredible wars, eventually into conflict with the whole world. Hundreds of thousands of refugees, crippled, killed, etc... (President: Mr. Markovic, bring an end to your exposure. ) Now the 10th anniversary of one of the crimes that took place is approaching, and there have been hundreds of such crimes against all nations, and there is also a Serb people, etc. And that's something that you have to face as a party and say, well, what kind of politics we've run when so many accidents have been in these Balkan areas during that unimpeached power of your President Slobodan Milosevic. Here, I'm done. The other day, a journalist asks me, she says, what do you think will be a lustration and whether lustration should be carried out, and one of her colleagues, who also from the outset supports this power, he says, yes, yes, needs lustration. What a lustration, if it were a lustration, would first be Prime Minister Stojkovic's lustration. How a lustration when those who need to be lustrated are now in power, say, like you, Mr. Obradovic, and your party, because of everything you've been doing for ten years. So much for how hypocritical your coalition is. A member of your coalition advocates lustration... (President: Mr. Markovic, you've almost doubled the time. You know what, Mr. Chairman, I'll be done and done. You remind me, what shall I do to you, take away my word. In the end, Minister Stojkovic came out, and if you want more minutes, you can interrupt me if you want, Minister Stojkovic is actually replacing thesis... (President: Mr. Markovic, I really ask you to bring an end to your exposure. I know, Mr. Chairman, but you haven't sat here since the beginning of this assembly, there's been talk about everything and everything, and now that the subject is mentioned... (President: Mr Markovic, those three-minute rules apply to all MPs, including you. Don't abuse. ) You know, I'm having a hard time sticking to the Rules of Procedure, which you've broken in the roughest way in the last six months, one 15 times, and now you're asking me to stick to this. Here comes the minister and let me tell him what I have to say. So, Mr. Minister... (President: I ask you to bring an end to it. ) Here, I'm bringing the end, Minister, first I don't understand why you were so sharp in answering the questions I asked you. The fact that I said that there is an ambience that points to the strange attitude of the DSS towards organised crime depicted in red berets and Milorad Ulemek, that is the belief that the government has in most Serbian citizens and you have no reason to be so angry when you answer that question. The other thing is, you're saying that we created this justice system that is now. We didn't create it, your law was about the High Council of Justice, about judges, prosecutors, etc. The agreement in parliament was next - we will vote for the Labour Act, if you vote for the Law on the High Council of Justice, and that is true, and we have voted for you, and what now. Mr. Chairman, here I am finishing up, I will continue in the discussion and I hope that there will be a Mr. Minister, because I want to tell him a lot more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16260	Wait a minute, the word has a first minister, so you'll be in a row, so you, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16261	It's said to be according to our laws. The problem is that they were changed in 2002 and 2003. By changing my predecessor had the authority to propose, and your government to choose. So why didn't you leave these laws, you couldn't put your people incompetent and unprofessional. Secondly, as far as the courts are concerned, if you've brought in the presidents, that's why we have a situation like this, the Justice Council is proposing to the presidents, please, the administrative authority. That's what you did, please, not me. This government immediately changed it when it came, but the situation was found as it was found. I've been told that I need to be spatrated, and I'd like by this law of yours, where you predicted you'd do it on file, and I see they're walking around B92 freely, that you're not going to do it on those files they're making, some real, they're holding, they're doing it and they're doing it. Second, you want to go with that commission where you choose people, where half of the husbands sit in DB, right, that won't work. If you're interested, everything I've done, I've done honorably. I was the best student, the youngest judge and the best judge. I applied the law the way he voted. I couldn't accept it then, and I won't agree now either, that individual groups or individual parties decide who will be prosecuted, how, I will never accept that on television or in the press, parallel court proceedings are being conducted in order to put pressure on the court. It couldn't have happened to me, but unlike what you're saying, I could've been a young judge to judge Oscar Davis, then the feather and favorite Joseph Broz Tito. It was asking for my permission. I have to admit, one single man, one honorable man answered at that time, the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Perovic, and said: well, I guess the judge has to judge by law. It has to, and if the law is wrong, go ahead and change it, but you never ask the judge to, if necessary, have a group, some parties, go after it, and selectively apply the law. The law only exists if it applies and applies to everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16262	The word is from Ambassador Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16263	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll only have one brief remark before I go into replica. There are currently more MPs in the SRS than anyone else, and this has been given to you by the benefits of your Rules of Procedure, and I think Serbian citizens see well how irresponsible and irresponsible those who have adopted such a Rules of Procedure are. I answered because of what Zarko Obradovic said exactly. It was a bit more monstrous and much worse than what Mr. Obradovic said. They were accusing us of the most difficult words at the time, some who had not read a single book in their lives, and had completed a private college in 11 days, for so many days they had 26 grades, had their representatives in this assembly, played some secretaries and ministers, and they appeared at that time and said that we Nazis, fascists, were about to walk into the government of Serbia, so I guess the flock of birds that flew over us drove us away from that place, so we went to someone else. I didn't understand it very well, but that theory, both the hickey and the haranga you were conducting, was the most creepy in modern history. So, Broz, when he was running his hickeys and haranga, he would quickly and efficiently end them, whether by killing or removing from public life, or by pushing behind bars, whether it's a naked island or somewhere else, and these were doing it for a long, ruthless, grumbling and torturing anyone who thinks differently. You're talking about lustration here. How dare you, you're not ashamed and ashamed to talk about it. You have the head of the parliamentary group who said that the opposition must not submit a motion for a no-confidence vote to the government, because it is not the opposition who chose the government. It is right that those who say the difference between state terror and state terrorism, as some from the party Vuk Draskovic would have to learn that state terrorism is acts, methods and forms of terrorist behaviour, which individual sovereign states are taking towards other sovereign states. Only enough to learn what's right, since I can see that mild relationships have nothing to do with the blatant terrorism of Milosevic or Djindjic, or any other regime. They'd have to prove it. They would have to prove that they were producing terrorist activities and carrying out terrorist acts on the territory, I don't know, Iran, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Australia, etc. So much, just ignorants to learn something. As for the story of who reformed and who did what, I noticed that in Serbia previous years the best reformed ficuses and spoons at the airport are the best. The ficus were so successfully reformed that they were worth 40,000 dinars. Did you, Serbian citizens, hear that the ficus cost 40,000 dinars? So well reformed that they made them steal 18m euros as a good day. People, it's not 18 million dinars, 18 million euros took the previous leadership at the Airport, because they're all from the Democratic Party, or just some? That yellow ficus cost 40,000 dinars, believe it or not. [[It's a yellow ficus.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16264	Mr. Wolfie, you're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16265	Please, Mr. Mihailovic, you first warned Mr. Markovic at 6.23, and he spoke for 8.37 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16266	Mr. Wolfie, that's not true. I warned him a long time ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16267	I've only been talking for four minutes. Furthermore, we have nothing to do with this power, I can hold a lot of things against them, and we haven't voted for any of their laws. Don't put us in that basket. I have to ask you, are you the ones who brag about how you support 80% of the law? Are you the ones who ask for their help and talk about how you'll be the best with the government just to give you their votes to defeat Tomislav Nikolic? Are you the ones who asked for it in the presidential elections, in the mayoral elections and in all others? When you need them, then give the votes, and after that, I'm sorry, you're no good. It's their relationship and yours. We don't care. But we now know, Serbian citizens, however and whatever you tell them, whatever you do -- no more, no more turning back on a spoon, this size of 650 dinars, a yellow spoon of 650 dinars. Have you heard, Serbian citizens, that it costs so much? Coffee spoon - 650 dinars!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16268	Mr. Wolfie, please!
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16269	But that, Mr. Michaelovich, is a simple metal spoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16270	I understand. Just bring the end of your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16271	But it's plain, painted yellow, metal, not gold. Next, let me ask you, since you don't know what's going on and you don't know how, who bought the new Audium for Tadic's security? What do you say about that, why don't you brag when you do it again, why don't you tell the people who gave the money for it? But I'm going upstairs, I have to go through, look, when -- new Audi, new money. I say, for whom are these yellow "audies", they say, for Boris Tadic. I'm saying, he didn't brag in the Serbian Parliament about it. No one boasted about the new audies. I say -- for whom they say -- it's for those, it's not for Natasa Kandic, Natasa Kandic doesn't like Predrag Markovic, he's with a beard, they're shaved to the head, they act dangerous. For them, your yellow auditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16272	Please bring the end of your exposure. I'm asking you most nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16273	I will, Mr. Mikhailovich, I am very grateful for your patience, you are very kind, I must ask that question, I hope someone will come out and answer me. You were talking, and you weren't looking, but now I'm asking you who bought those "audies"? Whose money? From a pair of Serbian citizens. You haven't informed us. We don't mind knowing that it's shaved to the head, those dangerous guys, and they're very strong, they're threatening where they are, how they get there, but tell us it's for them. Tell the citizens of Serbia how much it costs. So it doesn't cost 40 million. How much was that painting cost them? The painting cost them, so I'm finishing up Mr. Mikhailovic, I don't know if you remember, as if they bought literally Mona Lisa, as if half of the Louvre bought, so did the art paintings at the airport; they're not like that, they're more like some bad copies. But I have to say how much they cost and the Louvre would envy their price. That one picture, some yellow willows were, I guess because they're yellow and not green, cost about 350,000. And a special price, Mr. Mikhailovich, because it's the special kind of sad willow. It's those yellow sad willows, and that's how much it costs. We don't have anything against anyone, but we're not going to let some salty mind go to the stadium, where you're going to put yourself in camps, how you're going to harass people. The time for harassing Serbia passes. There are still your attempts, rudimentary forms, such as the beating of Milan Avramovic, a council member of the SRS Assembly, because he presented crime data on the Sava Venac municipality. He was caught by the beatings, the bandits, in front of the community directly and asked what his name was, because they never saw him in their lives, the bandits who hired yours because of the thieving on Santa. You've robbed and robbed all of your grandfathers. Even Santa turned into a yellow platform for getting big houses, for huge assets. Let me ask you, was that Serbia's landlord living there, who said he didn't want to go to the Santas? He said he wouldn't go to Santa's; 780 square feet. Serbian citizens should know that. My question is, who bought the yellow "audies"? They may still be black, but I hear they'll paint them yellow. I'm interested in who pays for it and how does he pay for it? Serbian citizens won't pay for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16274	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. This tolerance I showed the speakers was abused. Let me inform you of the future: to anyone who passes three minutes, I will take away the word, when he speaks as a replica, or when he speaks according to the Rules of Procedure, for it is a time that is limited. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16275	I'm reporting on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on behalf of the Rules of Procedure. I remain on the claim that privatisation in Serbia, carried out by the previous government, was the previous government, was a robbery. These problems have not been solved for the reason that there is a rope between the Democratic Party's summit, individual people from the judiciary and those who privatised them. Look at the leadership of the previous Democratic parties and those who are now, what they have and what they have, and there doesn't need any philosophy. It's a very simple thing. Like ships are full. [[They're full of ships.]] Another thing, don't abuse one man's murder, like Slavko Curuvija. Here, in this assembly in 2001, when a new parliament was formed, we heard from the Democratic Party's representatives that there was evidence of the involvement of individual SPS people in that murder. It was 2001 in January. So does anyone in this Serbia think, after that torture that the Democrats conducted over Serbia and those absolute authorities that they had over all the spheres of life, including the judiciary, that any of ours were involved, that it would not see the light of day and that he would not be arrested. A man of law says, if anyone is involved. Please, don't abuse the murders of these people. When you mention Curuvija, you also mean Pantic, when it comes to Buha, let Paule Bulatovic, Todorovic, Stojcic and many others who have been killed be mentioned. How they were killed and why they were killed, that's what the state needs to prove. But you don't want to talk about certain things. This is where you speak selectively, and so is this crime story. Don't put socialists in our mouths what we didn't say. We ask that this assembly condemn all crimes committed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but all of them. Not one, not one that is marketing one political option or groups of Western countries that have committed aggression on our country, but all crimes. But the Democratic Party isn't ready for that. She's not ready to mention they were sanctions. She's not ready to mention Vasa Miskina, Storm, and aggression and not talk. It's the ultimate incorrection that exists here because it's absolutely data-chosen and selectively summed up. I must say, as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, I was often in doubt until last night about what hate speech is. Of these new Democrats, and those who talk transparently about everything, I've heard the story of hate speech many times. I must say, I'm grateful to Mr. Popov last night for showing that video that was declared hate speech. I have to say, I'm grateful that I've seen it myself, so I can see what that hate speech was about that RTS broadcast. So, one short film, which actually determines the condition that a young man has lost his family, is hate speech. Why? Serbia shouldn't have said anything about that. Those who talk about RTS should know that RTS did not show these terrible events that happened in 1991, 1992 and 1993, and that if it did, who knows what would happen to those people. What our court and what The Hague tribunal -- they would have been safely crucified by now multiple times. In the end, Mr. Markovic, you are the last in this assembly to call for legality, because that is what you stand for. You were the president of the Palilu municipality, known for its lawlessness in the area of urbanism. What did you as a legalist do to stop it? You've allowed people to build buildings, and for three years, no electricity and water has been introduced, and you're affirming yourself as a legalist. What kind of legalist are you? Why didn't you, as president of the municipality, stop it? Why didn't you prevent services that allowed such facilities to be built? You're talking about law. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: and all over the place one apartment at a time.) It's a special story and we have information about it. We will be very happy to announce the work of these legalists and the fact that, in a little while, they have acquired huge wealth of wages from the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16276	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16277	Mr. Markovic made two mistakes. The first goes into the domain of good behavior, and the second one is mental. I'm not obsessed with Natasha Kandic and I have no reason to be obsessed with such a person. Some times I really express the surprise that the state has not taken action, since it is evident, proven, generally, to initiate an appropriate procedure to deprive it of its business ability, because it spreads false news, endangers public order and peace, irritates citizens. But all of her performances are an obvious example and evidence that it's about the structure of a person who enjoys controlling most. She's just enjoying knowing that someone next to the TV is cursing her. That urge with her is much stronger than any fact. So we have a pathology problem. I don't want to do pathology, it's not my narrow specialty. I'm not obsessed with Natasha Kandic, I don't need to be obsessed. I've been scanning her, I've seen what a medical case this is, and the state needs to take some action, to clean up that space of pollution that comes all the time, as soon as a woman opens her mouth. You've seen on any show, as soon as the Serbs are mentioned, she starts saying everything negative, and if they're said to be victims, she doesn't know it. So, the pure pathology, the pathology of the money and one interesting club big around it, and that is Vojin Dimitrijevic, and the entire system of NGOs and NGOs, very significant media, which are poisoning, which are doing mental manipulation with this people, and of course, they all support the Democratic Foreigners. It's symbiosis. Natasa Kandic - Democratic Party, place a sign of equality. Sonja Biserko - Democratic Party, place a sign of equality, regardless of color. So the colors can change. Democrats don't change their color, but these NGOs can have other colors, but, you know, it's all yellow. It's all yellow painted. They're working on the system, wherever they find interests that they can profit and say something, they say that, but from location to location they're different stories, because they need to be in power, and when they're in power, that's what we felt. It's sabers, sabers, privatization, etc., all sorts of rich ideas of how to steal money, how to do harm to this people, an inexhaustible fortune. That's why we want to point out to the citizens, look around you, see what the Democrats are doing. It's a lying yellow color. They're using every means of manipulation. The people beg the President of the Republic, do not invite people to go to vote in Kosovo and Metohija; no, he calls. The people are begging him, Europe, everyone is begging him not to go over the Drina, not to embarrass himself and the state; no, he's going. That syndrome, Natasha Kandic, rules the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16278	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic. Please stick to the time, I won't tolerate it, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16279	Mr. Krassic, I don't know why you're getting involved in this discussion at all. It's like no one's talking to you at home, and then you come here to talk. You've entered a discussion that has nothing to do with you. I explained the notional difference between two forms of terror, what state terror is, what terrorism is, and then Mr. Vukic further explained. I don't know what you're getting mixed up in this whole story. Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko, what do we have to do with them? That seems to be your problem. We don't see them as a problem. About the events they are talking about, the Democratic Party is completely clean, about Srebrenica and other events. What we have to do with it. That our members, God forbid, we have nothing to do with them, nor are we behind the attitudes they make. You're very excited, both you and the socialists before these 10 years of Srebrenica, and I don't know what's wrong with you. Just act like everyone else who has nothing to do with it. As for you, Mr. Obradovic, to inform you, I was President of the Assembly and you do not know that I did not issue construction permits, nor am I authorized to issue building permits. It was a coalition government. No one in that municipality has issued building permits. You know that over 800 squares is the jurisdiction of another body, and if you didn't know that, you had to learn when you were a candidate. Why are you slandering me here right now? I don't get it. Once I read some newspaper articles for this speaker, so your colleagues from the MPs' club turned my attention and said, "My colleague, we've been here a long time, and we've been reading newspaper articles or defamation, it can be a method of work, but we don't have to." If you want to slander me, I'll continue with what I had back then, but I don't see that's the solution. There's a court and have them determine about your party colleagues, as far as I'm concerned. But neither the court nor anyone has anything to do with whether something illegal was built. I must inform you that in Belgrade, a total of between 1985 and 2000 and some years millions and millions of illegal squares have been built. It's a system error and a system failure. Be the president of the community or the president of the local community, it's something quite tenth, so it has nothing to do with it. A building permit that a wall cannot be given to anyone outside his jurisdiction. A building permit is a complex real act. The complex legal act implies that you have the consent of the Department of Urbanism, as you well know, you cannot give a building permit without another authority etc. I'm telling you this honestly, and if I had time, I'd still tell you about it. It totally sucks what you just did. Mr. Minister, you further said that I've tied you to organized crime and that you have no knowledge that someone from the government is connected to organized crime. I didn't say you were involved with organized crime, I just distracted you that it couldn't take a day without any affair related to the Serbian government... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) I end with organized crime, etc. We unfortunately have such a Rules of Procedure, and if your coalition appears here, this one against the DS, and everyone comes out and out of the DS, and you're particularly in pain by the President of the Republic, and you say everything, and then we from the party have three minutes and that's all we can talk about. I'll use the time and I'll tell you what I have in my next presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16280	Replica, Aleksandar Vučić, pa Zarko Obradović, pa Mr Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16281	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry I didn't get an answer for these yellow audiums, yellow ficus, yellow spoons, and especially for these audiences. While the black, freshly painted, metalized, so please let the citizens of Serbia get an answer, if you will not tell the SRS how much these auditions cost, please come out and tell the citizens of Serbia. And tell us who paid for it and what money it paid for those good ones, robbed, which was very smart and ended up in Oxford and Cambridge School. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Mr. Markovic talking about some obsession and saying we're not mentioned by Natasa Kandic and I don't know who else. You are not mentioned by Natasa Kandic, it is true, does not mention you because you are one and the same, not mentioned by Natasa Kandic because she is trying psychoticly to prosecute normal, honorable, good and innocent people. I need to tell you what's going to happen very soon. Because you were talking about how you had nothing to do with something, and someone else had something to do with it. I can't think of you personally or anyone else to accuse me of some crime, because that's what competent state authorities are supposed to do. It doesn't occur to me that like you, like Barry and Visinsky, I'm tearing down the presumption of innocence. I'm telling you the next thing you know, you'll only see who financed who. I expect within the next three or four days, and no later than Tuesday, to see who and how Milan Milanović Mrgud, the commander of Scorpio, funded. It's that unit commander who committed the crimes we recently saw on TV, so you'll see if he financed the DSS, or the SPS, or the G17, or the SRS, or maybe DS. We will establish, without speaking before the time, only to suggest that there are some data that speak about whose fund he is and whose protection Milanovic is called Mrgud, which will be something that is very serious. I don't want to get into the story any further, I want to explain something else from the beginning of this morning's debate, which has nothing to do with you. Namely, in those lies and frauds, that bandit lobby... (President: Mr. Wolf, you've exceeded your time. I'm done, I understand, Mr. Mikhailovich, I'll finish as soon as I can. The bandit lobby, led by this pathological liar and psychopath Natasa Kandic, failed to coordinate its media, which is the main feature of being followers of Berija and Visinski, i.e. to violate the presumption of innocence and to seek proof of innocence and identification of suspects in Serbia. So that Nusic, if he were alive, could write a novel and novel today by watching B92 and listening to the head of the bandit lobby, Natasu Kandic. However, she failed to co-ordinate the complete bandit lobby and cracks appeared, so with those media that are protagonists of the idea of Berija and Visinski, I end in 10 seconds, information has appeared that it is true that Tomislav Nikolic left in December, but I guess by wanting to humiliate Tom Nikolic, wanting to humiliate the radicals, they say with a joke that everyone is generally known that Toma Nikolic did not fire a bullet. It's Kraguje's Light, and you can see, the latest...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16282	Mr. Wolfie, please, really bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16283	I can't comment, something was really funny, but I can't blame whoever threw it. So that's, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the bandits are recalculated. As for this bandit lobby, here's to cheer the citizens of Serbia, a criminal report will be filed on Monday, and next week the process will begin. We count, if there are rights and justice, and if Minister Stojkovic does not stop it or anyone else, and I hope not, Serbia will be very pleased, at least for a time Natasa Kandic will go on an official trip to Kinsas, happy her official trip to Kinshasa, for at least a year. And if Serbia rests... (Chairman: Time, please. )......................................................................................................... of the bandit lobby and that Serbian citizens can breathe and live like all normal citizens of the world. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16284	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, since this is slowly getting away from the agenda theme, I have a duty to say a few words about the mention of the SPS and these events in Srebrenica, and to mark that terrible date. Terrible for the reason that many people have been killed, and this event is being used and being politically manipulated, and apparently wants to make a political point. We Socialists have no reason to worry about these events. I have to remind these concubines of something that is part of our modern political history, but it is obviously not mentioned, because it cannot be politically noted that the 1994 peace plan on stopping the war in BiH, where the leadership of Serbia-Yugoslavija then stood behind it, and President Milosevic, was rejected in 1994 since the then leadership of Republika Srpska at the Palace, and that a blockade was introduced on Drina on 6 August. At that time, we socialists were criticised by all these now-in-the-murderers for giving such moral lectures. We were criticised for not helping the Serbian people, etc. And we delivered huge amounts of food and medical supplies. There is a report by Swedish General Bob Pelnes, who says Serbia has done nothing against the deal reached then with the international community. We have, unfortunately, these terrible crimes from 1996 and we have a report from the Dutch government on 7,600 pages, where it's irrefutable, and one government has fallen for it, according to several facts. One, Serbia has nothing to do with this. Under two, a partial responsibility is borne by the Dutch government, a partial responsibility is borne by the UN, and because of the way they were treated and treated in the action, and that responsibility is borne by the Republika Srpska Army. Serbia isn't here. Why are we against declarations that, I say, only talk about one crime. Just because our country is absolutely trying to get into something that it's not responsible for. It bothers us socialists to talk about one crime. It bothers us when it comes to the state of Serbia that has nothing to do with it. Why not mention some other crimes that have happened or the responsibility of everyone, why we're allowed to have some so-called. The nurses from the international jury are saying it's moral to condemn her. None of them condemned NATO's aggression against our country in 1999. Why, for God's sake, the logic that we need to talk about crimes in another country, because BiH is another country, whether we like it or not, and we don't have a need, moral or political, to talk about the crimes that have been committed in our country over our people. It's something that socialists distinguish us from these newly-compromised concubines and Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16286	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16287	I'm reporting under article 100. Rules of Procedure. I hope it's the same member after this change. I'll point to one thing that happens when Mr. Markovic comes out. He just said, why am I getting involved in something he's arguing with Mr. Wolf? He's trying to forget the fact that he called me by my name first. People's MPs should also have different political views, and they should bring up and conflict these political views from these speakers, but they must never deny any MPs the right or the question that some MP has no right to come out and talk. That's why I'm reporting, and that's why I'm pointing to this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and this is about one manipulation. The man caused replicas, so it doesn't fit him if Krasic comes out on the line, because he knows that Krasic knows many things very precisely, factually, so few who can replicate the harsh and general facts. I have to remind these great mid-supervisors, who are representatives of the character and work of Natasa Kandic, that during 1999 a particularly formed commission, which was formed at the time by UN tribunal prosecutor Luiz Arbur, made a report on NATO bombing on the 28th page, as there were objections and demands that the UN tribunal be included. The recommendation at the end of the report is that there were no acts committed in this area under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, but possibly acts: a crime against peace and aggression, which is not the authority of the UN tribunal. But in 1998 the Roman Statute of the Permanent Court of War Crimes was adopted. You see, that question is not being raised there either, although the text in 10 places finds that all rights of humanitarian rights towards civilian victims have been severely violated, and in the end it is said, in a comment by the White Paper of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where all civilian victims have been given, there have been only 500 civilian victims, and that is not enough reason for the tribunal to continue to engage in this consideration. So I really ask you, when you go out for this pay phone and you want to give a political qualification of something, look at the facts, the acts that regulate these things, because we have media dominated by these yellow ones, who are able to repeat a thousand times a lie, and then we who know the facts can't convince the public that the truth is on the other side and that it looks completely different. You have seen for yourself, what they have shown to be Srebrenica, on all the media is spinning and day-to-day, but what the Serb has suffered, no one should announce, in Serbia should not publish. That's why we raise our voice. We ask the DS to accept Serbs as equal builders in the Republic of Serbia. We ask the DS to remember that Serbs are also people who must enjoy human rights. That's all we ask, but that's a lot for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16288	National MP Dusan Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16289	In accordance with Article 100. The coming of war crimes on the agenda of our public has brought great distress into this congregation. Obviously, those who are most upset have some reason to do so. As far as I'm concerned, we're having a hard time seeing hysteria spills from this pay phone, but that's what the public who's watching this assembly will know how to assess. It is not possible to deny the facts by hysterical statements and uttering complete untruths. It's important that we have a clear idea of what is indisputable. First of all, something that is not within this topic, and Mr. Vukic has opened and concerns some cars. Mr. Vukic, I don't know if you've started seeing any cars that are in the security of this institution or that institution, but you know very well, and I'm sure the citizens who are watching us know that the President of the Republic can't buy anything. First of all, I haven't heard from any citizen, or anyone who in one way or another could have anything to do with it, if there were any "audi", and especially the yellow "audi", put into any official use within the service of the President of the Republic. Whether it's "South", "half" or any other car, only the government of the Republic of Serbia's competent service, within the budget, can get any vehicle. Only the government of the Republic of Serbia can get a bicycle for someone who works for the state. Mr. Vukic, however you turn, what you said, and it doesn't look like you, is truly an incredibly illogical claim and is expressing your evil intentions towards the President of the Republic, which is not worthy of a single MP. As far as the declaration is concerned, and that's what's been said here, yes, the DS considers it necessary for this parliament to condemn all war crimes that have taken place and that it should especially condemn the crime that took place in Srebrenica. It's an indisputable fact. Not a single word of the state of Serbia, in any way in the text proposed by the DS, is included, it is a lie. In addition, what the DS suggested was in all the daily newspapers, and they are also citizens of Serbia. With regard to one of the claims made by one of these MPs who are present here, as it is so many times that some false things are repeated to become true, so this is one of the truths that is repeated, with a sad hope that it will become true. So it is not true that in the text sent by DS to this assembly anywhere in Serbia appears as an entity or as a state structure that figures in this text. We are in front of a valuable waterworks and politicians in Serbia, political parties in Serbia and Serbian citizens will in a very short time be divided according to what values are in their hearts and what values they share. Are we, as a state and as citizens, ready to condemn war crimes, and the state to arrest war criminals and to judge them by law, or, as it was in the 1990s, because of the godly patriotism that destroys the state, will be prepared to look through the fingers of criminals or even support them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16290	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he was a typical representative behind the pay phone earlier, as Natasa Kandic says "histerior beards, with where," what else he said and looked like one of those. That's how Natasa Kandic experienced them. I would never say that about Mr Petrovic, but that's what Natasa Kandic said last night. Mr. Petrovic looked like a prototype of a character described by Natasa Kandic. As far as the car is concerned, I metaphorically said the yellow "audi", and it is about the black metallized "audies", in the course of the break we will check and register, and we will say, there is no doubt that this has to go through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we have asked for such information either from the cabinets of the President of the Republic or from the Government of Serbia, to let us know who has obtained the new "audies" for the President of the Republic. That's our question. Nothing more. You didn't listen very carefully to what I was saying. As for the very stories of war crimes and hysteria, in order to make it clear to the public, we mentioned the crime in Srebrenica by name and last name in the SRS declaration, but we mentioned the crime in Bratunc, Klečki and the Serbian province. That's what bothered you. So, we want to condemn Srebrenica, but you didn't want to condemn Krajina at the same time, you didn't want to condemn Klecka and Bratunac. That's the fundamental difference. We want everything, and you want only Srebrenica and that's what the citizens of Serbia need to know, that's the fundamental difference between us. I don't mind that some media, which are followers of Beria and Visinski, will organize an attack against the SRS at 9:00 this morning, except they don't swear and I don't know what they're doing. It's their job. They can do anything, they won't scare Serbian radicals in any way, and neither can that white-world thief, who stole a diploma and forged what Slobodan Beljanski, president of the Vojvodina Bar Association, or many others. I have to inform some of the information they have that Barry died a long time ago, that they don't have to insist on his image and work, he won't come back, he won't be able to rule in any country on the globe of the Earth, and especially not in Serbia. As far as the SRS is concerned, we will continue to condemn all crimes, with clear consciences, because the SRS, unlike some others, but I will not talk about it until clean and accurate data arrive, has never been financed by a great criminal Milan Milanovic, the Scorpion commander, and you will see what political parties have funded and helped at the time of the execution and cover-up of the crime in Srebrenica. You'll be very surprised when you get the exact financial aid papers. As far as the SRS is concerned, we will continue to insist that justice and justice be served, not that Natasa Kandic and some of the officials from individual embassies, who will, after taking certain rulings, appear in the media and say that we are satisfied with the verdicts. Because it's the destruction of the legal order, it's a grudge to Minister Stojkovic, it's the destruction of Serbia. You can think that destroying Serbia is profitable, that you will continue to receive support in certain countries of the world. Perhaps you will, but you do not have the right to ask the citizens of Serbia, because Serbian citizens will not go on destroying or humiliating or destroying Serbia, the citizens of Serbia just want to be on their own and live like the whole normal world, and without the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16292	Mr. Petrovic, I assume you're looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16293	Article 100. Rules of Procedure. I'm glad you're getting closer to reality, Mr. Wolfie, and I assume that your path will continue in today's day and future. So it's not a yellow "audi" anymore, it's become black. It is true that if something was purchased, it had to buy the government of the Republic of Serbia through its administration. Not that you heard on the street, but you're going to ask for a check, and here I am, too, going to see what happened. I am convinced that there is nothing important or interesting about it, and I am sure, therefore, that is not even a question of probability, that nothing has been done that cuts the law, or something beyond the Serbian budget is possible to do, but it simply does not matter. Of course, it's important to determine what it is, it's not important for this war crimes debate, but certainly you and I will share that information and see what happened to each of the institutions' rolling stock. What is more important is that we have begun to draw closer to the truth and to the facts that are important to the declaration and to our debate. Unfortunately, here's the minister, and we went to another topic, but it's important for the public to discuss it all. Of course, in the text given by the DS state, Serbia does not figure anywhere. But it is also true that on behalf of the DS, I suggested that on the anniversary of our people's exodus from Republika Srpska, from Croatia, this assembly bring a declaration, and that was the topic in the discussion of the heads of Parliament's parliamentary clubs. So Srebrenica became a symbol of the destruction of modern mankind. It is not only a symbol of the death in Bosnia and Herzegovina, nor anywhere else, but one of the symbolic points that marked the end of the 20th century and the whole 20th century. The question arises whether the Serbian parliament, as a body representing politics in Serbia, because it is the people's representatives here, is able and has the strength to share the value of modern humanity. It is the only way and way that we, as a state above all, can succeed to protect the memory and moral rights of all the victims of Serbs from these unfortunate 10 years, to preserve the memory of all the sites where Serbs were killed in those 10 years, including Bratunac and all other sites of the great casualties of our countrymen. But it is also the only way to preserve the memory of the crimes that took place against our people in World War II, and in Jasenovac, and in Jadovna. If we are not able as a congregation and as a state to become part of the system of values of modern mankind, we will lose our right to both our history and our victims. It will be a waterhouse that is now happening in Serbia and the DS there is no dilemma whatsoever.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16294	Replica, Alexander Vukic, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all around these "audies." So, I didn't make anything up. Two new "audias" with these smart guys from Cambridge and Oxford arrived, and I immediately said they were black, and the yellow ones are people's, and big and too big, because of all of that. But let's get back to these crimes. We handed over a declaration about the persecution of the Serb people from Republika Srpska, the text. You can sign for us, we just need three signatures, so we can go to an emergency meeting with the team. I doubt you'll do it before 11 July. I doubt you'll ever do that, because there's talk of brutal persecution and killing the Serb people. On the other hand, this waterhouse between us is exactly what you don't want to say is that the same crime, at least the same, was committed against the Serb people. The most suffering people in the past 15 years, not to say for the past 65 years, are undoubtedly Serbian in the former Yugoslavia. I don't think there's any dilemma. When you talk about Jasenovac, how is it that you who have such connections and so much power have not grown old and made the paradigms of the modern world's crimes are Jasenovac. My father, by chance, I don't want to talk about it personally, because there must have been worse tragedies and bigger ones, he never met his father or his uncles or any man in the family, because the Ustasha killed everyone. I ask you, who condemned you, did he ask for anyone from the separatist leadership of Vojvodina to be the day of mourning when the camp of Jasenovac was created, did he ask for someone from the separatist leadership of Vojvodina, since today there are many exiled Krajisniks, right in that part of Serbia, did he ask that August 5th be the day of mourning, or May 4th or perhaps May 5th? Not unless, perhaps, some would ask for Tito's birthday to be a day of mourning. I mentioned this date in May for "Blash", due to Western Slavonia and then the persecution of Serbs, when that Ustasha criminal Robert landed on his plane and blasted the columns of Serb refugees. That waterhouse shows that we are the ones who want to condemn a crime, no matter who committed it and who it was, but we are the ones who don't want to close our eyes and we don't want to be afraid of the media pressures of those who want to say there's only one crime, a crime against the Srebrenica Muslims, and that's the key difference between us. That's why we invite you, you're welcome Mr. Petrovic, you're welcome, everyone, on July 9th, we organize in the grand hall of the Sava Center at 12 o'clock, it's Saturday, it's a day off, to come and see the footage and photos of the crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia area. So, not to be ashamed of television, the media, not those who are followers of Berija and Visinski, but those others who want to see what was happening against Serbs, not just against some others, to come and see, so that they can inform the public whether a single crime was and whether it was only Srebrenica, or if we could find more symbols and more paradigms. Because of what you say is a paradigm, we asked it to be Krajina, because it is the biggest crime that has happened in Croatia, and Klecka, we could have put Stara Graco, where the young boy was ripped out of his heart just because he was a Serb, but we took Klecka in Kosovo, we took Bratunac, Kravica, and we could have taken Sarajevo, because it is the place of the great suffering of the Serbian people. We could have taken some more places where they cut off the heads of Serbs, played football with Serbian heads, we could have done it all, but no, we took one place just as symbols, and we put Srebrenica on, and that wasn't enough for you, because you wanted it to be just Srebrenica, and that's the difference between us. I am proud that this difference between us is such, I am proud that no one will tell us that we have forgotten some crime, proud that Serbia wants to condemn all criminals, those individuals who have committed crimes against the Srebrenica Muslims, but wants to respect both their dead and their people, and their children, for our future, for the future of our generations, and yours and my children. Without that, we won't have a future like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16296	The word is from Ambassador Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16297	I'm reporting under article 100. Rules of Procedure. We fight to preserve the symbols as much as we can, however we know. So, within the difficult heritage and the last decade of the 20th century, she left it to all of us together, and now in Serbia, of course, it is important who is guilty and who is right, but anyone who now participates in leading the state and in political life, including the opposition, is obliged to fight for the interests of the state in the context of his abilities and with the best intentions. That is why the President of the Republic was on the anniversary of Jasenovac's release, so that the state of Serbia would bow down to hundreds of thousands of unfortunate people who killed Ustasha in Jasenovac, which is why the President of the Republic was in Žitometić, so that the state of Serbia would bow down to the heart of a monastery and to the people who died there, and that is why the President of the Republic will go to Srebrenica. So, to bow down to the victims who were killed there. In this way we struggle never to repeat the crime, and the truth is that we do not care about our victims' memories, and the truth is that the moral rights of the victims' families are not taken care of, either, but there is, and there you are right, Mr. Wolfichu, great, and perhaps insurmountable, the difference in our efforts to fight for the interests of the state. This difference is neither today nor yesterday, the difference between us existed in 1992 and 1995 and 2000. With the good part of that ten-year-old you took part in the management of this country. In those ten years, a large number of Serbs left Croatia and their estates, and therefore we opened the topic in the talks so that it would be more than necessary for this assembly to adopt one act on the day of the celebration. During that period, the foreign army also reached Kosovo and Metohija. Like today, this congregation has listened to all ten years, and the public of the Republic of Serbia. The results of this policy and speech, and they are the character of this policy, are that we have suffered the greatest national and national losses in our modern history. We were different back then, and we're different now. So, as I said, trying to bring Serbia into the value system of modern humanity, which is what it is and cannot be changed by eight million Serbian citizens, we are also fighting to preserve the memory of all our victims and we are trying to make out of our accidents and strategies symbols, but respecting the symbols of suffering and others, because this is the only way to fight for what is most important in the future, never to repeat itself again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16298	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I knew that somewhere, when there were no more arguments and there were no more facts to be called on by Mr Petrovic, that the general story would go, we knew ten years of these and those, and you were in the good part. We were part of the government of the Republic of Serbia for two years, and until then you ruled far more over Serbia and Yugoslavia, and via Milan Panic and Miodrag Perisic, vice president of the DS, back in 1992. When you talk about the 1995 crime, you can talk about it in one of your local stands, but don't talk to Serbian radicals. In 1995, when Srebrenica took place, Voja Seselj and Toma Nikolic were in Gnjilan prison, and you were roasting ox at the Palace, so you gave up both the ox and the people you went to to roast the ox. That's the difference between you and me. Those who boasted that you were received with great enthusiasm, that you were their biggest friends, and we were waiting for them in the fifth room, when it became difficult, we didn't say that we were no longer interested in them and that we were not interested in Serbs through the Drina, and you were just waiting to say that and you didn't do anything else. What do we have to do with Srebrenica or anyone, because they were both in jail? When Krajina fell, you burned the American flags in front of the American reading room, so now your policy has changed, do you want me to remind you, because it's completely different now. In 1995, outside the American reading room, DS members burned American flags because Peter Galbright entered Knin in the U.S. tank. Is this about the consistency of your policy, and you're talking about Kosovo and Metohija and foreign troops. We were against the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, you were in favour, you supported the Socialist Party of Serbia. This is where Vojislav Seselj came out and talked about what would happen and how Serbs would avoid Kosovo and Metohija afterwards. You supported it. Every time there was any move against Serbia and the interests of our people, you supported it, as you did today. The biggest problem today is that you want to bring the country down to the end. It's no problem to say, of course, there's no one normal who's going to say that it's not a terrible crime to shoot people like that. Yes, no doubt. You have to match their boss, too. You'll see soon whose money he was. Our parties certainly don't. I'm telling you, on Tuesday, and at the latest on Wednesday, you'll get accurate information on who, as well as how much money he financed, to cover up the crimes. One key question arises: What did we do to avoid condemning silver crimes? What are you giving us? We will and we condemn the crimes in Srebrenica. If you want to hear it again, yes, we condemn the crimes in Srebrenica, but unlike you, we wanted the crimes in Krajina against the Serbs, the crimes in Klecka, the crimes in Bratunc, and you didn't want it. That's the only reason you didn't want to accept the text of our declaration. Otherwise, it was completely copied from what he said and written by Predrag Markovic. Tell that to the citizens of Serbia. Why didn't it suit you and why didn't you want to talk about crimes against Serbs in Krajina? You say he went to Jasenovac, Žitojsic. It is, which did not then bring the declaration of Žitojsic, Jasenovac and what must happen today in Žitometić and Jasenovac. Which doesn't say that Serbs today don't even have the right to walk, let alone talk about Jasenovac, who once was, you know, a Serbian place per capita. I'm gonna think I'm not talking. There's a huge break-in between us. Unfortunately, we only have one idea we have to agree on. The idea is that we have one Serbia and that's why we can't rip it up and split it in two. That's why we're going to have to or you're going to have to accept something everyone in this country wants, which is to condemn all crimes equally, to condemn Srebrenica, but also to condemn Krajina, Klecka, Bratunac. Only then, and as a nation and as a state, will we be able to have a future, only then will something remain for our generations, and only after that will we be able to say that all victims are equal. (President: Mr. Wolfie, time. I'm done, Mr. Mikhailovich. And that Rade Rogic, who I didn't hear about, did you ask if his killer, who had been slaughtered after the shooting, had ended up behind bars. I haven't heard you're interested in the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina whether that puper, that butcher, is arrested or not. Here, let me tell you -- it's not. No one in the Hamza squad is. That's not what you were interested in, because it doesn't occur to you to engage in it, but only how and how much it takes for Serbian citizens to pay war damages and how much it will cost Serbia's future, how much Serbia's children should suffer for Srebrenica alone. I'm telling you correctly - Serbia has never had anything to do with Srebrenica. That's the difference. That is why the Serbian Radical Party is stronger today, and more successful and larger, but unfortunately, Serbia will have to show that it can overcome all these conflicts and show that it can condemn crimes equally. It's our only chance of survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16300	The first to speak was the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic, followed by the People's Messenger Ristic, and then by the People's Messenger Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16301	I suppose it's article 101, but since we don't have a new Rules of Procedure yet, I can't say exactly who it is. The MP is obliged to speak the truth behind the pay phone. Mr. Petrovic, the foreign army did not come to Kosovo. Kosovo's 1244 resolution brought forces to the United Nations. Don't you, more than you need, paint and make it harder. You are not aware of the official state reports and reports of the NATO Alliance when it comes to NATO aggression and the failure of this aggression in the part concerning the fact that the infantry did not come to our country. I don't advise you, I don't have that ambition, and that's not why I came out. You also said that Serbia's state policy is responsible for what happened in Croatia. Just to remind the citizens of Serbia, you obviously know what this is about, but the reasons why you're telling me otherwise are not unknown to me, that's what I want to tell you. Serbia's state policy insisted that Serbs in Croatia be a constitutional people, not to be expelled from the Constitution and that a third of the population of a republic, or one state, could not be treated in this way, as was apparent to happen. Mr Petrovic, it started in Slovenia, to remind you, in rifles, mostly Serbian soldiers, which were empty, there was no hatred or any other emotion. They were shot in the back. The German foreign minister, who had a yellow vest, I don't know if it was any symbolism, asked Slovenia and Serbia to part in blood. I guess that's not unknown. It is not unknown to you or anyone else in Serbia. We can't agree to a nation stop favouring the right to self-defense. That's what we're different about. To talk today about this time that way, with a 15-year distance, is not correct. And those who talk about Drina this way today, and everything that's been going on out there, at the very least, have no best intentions. Drina is a noble border between the same people. If that's not the case, this nation has no chance of survival. A Serbian dictionary, such as the one that gave our respected writer high confessions, will write. It's about the Hazars.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16302	Mr. Baralich, you've overstepped a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16303	Five more seconds. Let's just agree on a minimum of national interest, national dignity and national need and that here, in this House, we can reach consensus in the most responsible way possible, if possible. If not, then we must try to change things in some other way, and I believe that it is possible. As for all victims, let them rest in peace, all morning we search their graves. Let's start doing the job we came here to do this morning. If something is worth my little, then may all those in that war rest in peace, and everyone believed they were fighting a righteous war, give their lives. Let them rest in peace, lest we politicize what they thought they were doing with a sense of duty and honor towards their country, towards their people and to their nation. If that's not the case, we're talking about deaf phones here. The campaign's been going on for days. Because of families that have terrible losses, because of everything that's so fresh, we stop doing it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16304	The word has an MP, Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16305	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in the same way my predecessors used to say, not calling for a concrete member of the Rules of Procedure, but I think they felt the need to report on this topic that was open beyond the agenda, but it is very important, which is driving all the citizens of Serbia, who have aroused the passions of the public, which is not being removed from the media and from the pages of written media at all. A lot has been heard here, should the resolution, what content, should there be condemnation of crimes, what crimes, whether all crimes are equal, whether the responsibility is individual, collective and where in this story Serbia and citizens of Serbia are? First of all, I believe that there has been a significant shift in Serbia and Serbia, and that is that we have finally begun to talk about the scariest side of our history. When I tell our history, I mean the history of all the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, of all the peoples of the Balkans. It was necessary to open up what was happening. The graves multiplied, people violently moved out of their homes, and it was necessary for us to talk about it in public once. It was necessary to admit what was happening, to admit what was happening to our citizens, to open our eyes to those columns that were coming to Serbia, when televisions kept quiet about it. It wasn't television that kept quiet about it, and it wasn't because of their desire, it was because it was one government that kept it from being talked about. The same government, which had very much support for the citizens at one time, was also an architect of many events in these areas. When we talk about collective responsibility in relation to individual events and the individual crimes that some have committed, it is not possible for individual and criminal liability of individuals who have committed various crimes to wash away the conscience of those who created it, those who have had the opportunity to influence it, and before these crimes they have murked. There are various kinds of responsibilities, political, moral and historical. I must tell you that it is not the same people in Serbia at the time when the crimes took place and those who are now talking about these crimes, and those who are now condemning these crimes. Those who were born after these crimes certainly cannot have any responsibility, no historical, no moral, no political, and especially no criminal law. But we cannot say that those who have had a political impact on events in Serbia and in the former Yugoslavia can be freed from responsibility, political, moral and historical, only because individuals in dozens and perhaps hundreds of those responsible will wash their conscience before the court. We must finally say that the crimes have happened. I'm glad that most of them who are publicly advertised confirm and admit that there have been crimes all over the place. Crimes should only not be equated for political purposes and should not be brought into a time-related relationship just to undermine the importance of individual crimes, and especially not crimes in Srebrenica. I want to invite all parliaments in the environment to, in the same way that we are discussing where we feel some responsibility, historical, political or responsibility because we did not have the strength to change relations in Serbia in a certain period and thus prevent events - I call on parliaments of other countries where their countrymen committed crimes against Serbs, to open the debate on the truth in the same way. Only those who are willing to forget the crime are willing to repeat that crime. In order for that not to happen, I believe that this parliament must bring a declaration of crimes that some have committed on behalf of us, in order to distance themselves from it, and in the same way we would strengthen both the state and its institutions, because ignoring the crime will not strengthen the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16306	The word is Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16307	I don't see Mr. Baralic, but I didn't tell him anything while he was speaking here, but another colleague, but it doesn't matter now. Of course, the forces of the United Nations in Kosovo and Metohija are not militaryly effective foreign states but international organisations of the United Nations, but it is certainly not the domestic army of an effective force that now controls order and peace in Kosovo and Metohija and, of course, is responsible for that. I would no longer burden the Assembly or the public by undermining the differences that exist in our views, and I am not surprised that the people responsible for the governance of the state are trying in one way or another to justify the failure of their policy. Of course, this is not a historic debate about causes, causes, events, but about one policy that, for 10 years, has led Serbia to the lowest branches since the First Serbian uprising, when this people were able to begin to make a state in the early 19th century. What I'm trying to say right now is that it's important again just to stick to the facts, because they're only important and important. The reason that led to the debate or discussion being opened in this assembly in general, to be precise, is the debate in this parliament, and the conversation was composed of parliament presidents and heads of parliament groups, is 10 years of Srebrenica. The occasion is a film shown on various televisions. He's kind of upset, which is completely natural, brought into the public, but the reason is to mark 10 years of that crime. In this conversation, various ideas, ideas that the Democratic Party has, and which I am talking about today, were brought up all the time in that conversation. Once again, Srebrenica has become a symbol throughout humanity for suffering and crime. We can talk about the reasons. Not a Bratunac symbol of death, and more than 2,000 people were in a terrible way unnecessarily before Srebrenica died in Bratunc. They did not become a symbol of the crime in Sarajevo, but for a long time Sarajevo was under one siege, which in one way or another caused an odyssey over the entire Serbian people. But even Sarajevo did not become a symbol of suffering, but Srebrenica did, as some other places in some other wars remained written in the memory of humanity as a symbol of suffering and crime. There's a question of what the state's interest is. According to the point of view and deep conviction of my and DS, the state's interest is what the DS in its text stated, to condemn all crimes, and Srebrenica in particular. Just for a very short time, there is no state-run talks between Serbia and states in the environment, and the topic is not a question of launching a process or completing a process against persons suspected of committing war crimes, either with BiH, with Croatia, or with talks with the international community when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. It stands before all of us, as people who do not have the ordinary responsibility of any Serbian adult citizen, but rather the responsibility of a MP, whether in BiH or Croatia the state in an insufficiently efficient way is running and implementing procedures, and I mean the police, prosecutors and courts, proceedings against persons suspected of committing war crimes, does this mean that we here in Serbia should also reduce efficiency or completely end the finding of guilt by persons who committed war crimes or there is a suspicion that they committed war crimes, and are found under jurisdiction, therefore, under the judicial authority of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16308	Mr. Petrovic, you've been over the clock for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16309	If there's a dilemma there, it's a civilization dilemma. What is our job, and above all people who have executive authority, and I mean the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the President of the Republic, is that in their power they put every kind of pressure in international relations and in bilateral relations that people suspected of committing war crimes on other countries' territory are put into court procedure and being tried. But our duty, our obligation to the lives of eight million people, to create conditions for a healthy public life and for the normal state of things in this country, to judge anyone who is suspected of a war crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16310	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16311	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Blazic, therefore, we in the SRS are not surprised by the language, tone, by the organization of an attack against the entire Serbian people and who will find him guilty in all things. It is not by any chance that he had just spoken to the Rules of Procedure Bosko Ristic among other things and said that the crimes were committed on behalf of all of us. I'm sorry, they're not. He who commits crimes goes to prison, and there are no false dilemmas. No one said he was hiding or hiding anyone for whom there was a founding or suspicion that he committed any crime, let alone one of the most serious crimes of war. No one has ever said that to us or to anyone. As for the fact that the crime was committed on behalf of all of us, it wasn't, and I will never let you or anyone else say that those who killed anyone in Srebrenica or anywhere else in that way and did it on behalf of my children, my Daniel, my Miss, even in the name of your children, because they did it for themselves, and they funded some others and gave money to others. Me and me aren't, be sure. We'll soon see who it is. Just this Milan Milanović Mrgood, whom and what political party he loves most, and not only loves it would be emotion, feeling, nothing special, but who he loves and the money to support and big money to cover something up or cover it up, and I hope it's not a cover-up of a war crime. You say, the siege of Sarajevo, so whether Serbs should have left places where they mostly lived, such as Ilidza, Podlugova, Rajlovac, Ilias, Mrakovici, Poljina, Lukavica, Gojkovica, just because someone said it was an siege. When you talk about the siege of Sarajevo, the campaign is under way, and in one day two girls were killed on the hump with sniper shots. I was doing news in English, and that contribution came to me. A contribution has come to me in Serbian that I should have translated. On the same day, they were hiding from Muslim sniper shots from Hotel Bristol, from Holiday in and other places, the possibility of seeing Serb civilians and Serb fighters. The girls were riding the bike and both were killed with one bullet each. Are you talking about this crime? Are you talking about mothers being killed when they're getting away from their sons because they can't perform physiological needs in the house, because there's no water, no electricity, so they go out to hide and the kids don't see them, and the Muslim sniper takes them down. That means killing on the spot. Is that the siege you're talking about? Is the siege that killed everything that was Serbian in the Popalics? Is that the siege you're talking about? Is it a siege, and that's what I'm asking those people who are journalists, when they killed my colleague Ljuba, and I don't think I'm wrong, I think it's B, but don't hold my word, TV "S" from the Palace, sniper shot at the Eight. Is that the siege? Or when the mujahedins of Ali Izetbegovic came and from Zenica broke the lines at Podlugov, Iliaš and elsewhere. I do not want to talk about only one crime, many crimes against the Serb people have been committed in order to overcome it. You say the paradigm is only Srebrenica today. Yeah, all they talk about is Srebrenica. It is said in the Council of Europe, believe it or not, and our media have lied to the public, as the members of the Croatian delegation have rebelled because Tomislav Nikolic is suspected, they say, of murder. That's not true. They rebelled because they say TV B92 says it has certain knowledge of Tomislav Nikolic, believe it or not. The Croatian delegation, you know, it's officially written, Tomislav Nikolic will bring in paper, I think whether Matosic or whatever his last name is, who signed it, he doesn't call on his organs, he doesn't call on his country, he doesn't call on anything, he calls for a TV from Serbia. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16312	Mr. Wolfie...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16313	I'm finishing up, Mr. Angelkovic. It is a shame that Serbian citizens cannot get a clear answer, and that is whether we condemn all crimes. Yeah, we're judging. Then don't, please, make a difference, because go to Vlasenica, not only Bratunac, go to Vlasenica and Milic, and between Muslim strategic Kasaba, go to Milic and Vlasenica, and you will see an endless field with crosses and killed Serbs in the previous war. I hope those Serbs aren't less valuable, I hope Rado Rogic's throat and neck aren't less valuable than all the other people on the globe. How come nobody's talking about the movie we showed, where there are much more monstrous videos, where besides cold-blooded murder, you see both torture and humiliation. How can you not be interested in that? How come you don't talk about it? It is interested in the citizens of Serbia and therefore I call them once again, on July 9th at "Sava Centre" at 12:00pm, all Serbian citizens are welcome to see, unfortunately, that terrible crimes have been committed in the former Yugoslavia area, because the truth is the most important, the truth cannot be hidden and the truth will always inevitably win, be sure of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16314	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16315	Let me explain. Perhaps you've selectively paid attention to what I've been saying. I was talking about Serbs who were killed in Sarajevo and I was talking about cannons that were going through Sarajevo. There were snipers from the valley killing innocent people in the hills and there were snipers from the hills killing innocent people in the city of Sarajevo. That's what I'm talking about. That every crime must be illuminated, that we must fight as a state that every unfortunate Serb who has been killed in Sarajevo is determined in what way he has lost his life and that we are fully prepared to determine what was happening around Sarajevo and what was the fact of all those troops that were Serb around Sarajevo. That's the point. It's an objective, equally civilized view of the matter of people who deal with politics. No citizens of Serbia, no BiH citizens, no citizens anywhere to be objective, because they have no responsibility for anyone but their families, but politicians must be responsible for having responsibility for the state and for those citizens they represent. That's my view, that's the DS position, and it's, in my deep conviction, the attitude that represents Serbia's state interest at the moment and the only way to become a valuable part of civilised everything and to solve all the troubles that we have left as an inheritance from those terrible 10 years from 1990 to 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16316	Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand very well what's been said here, and I understand very well the story of these cannons around Sarajevo. Yes, there are cannons in the war, there are cruise missiles in the war, and tamahuk rockets that killed little Milica Rakic in Batajnica, so I don't remember you ever saying it was brutal aggression and brutal crime, and you condemned it. I also don't remember that the same thing was done in Varvarin, where little Sanja was killed, nor do I remember that someone convicted of what those villains were doing to Mazreka, raping Serbs and killing Serbian children, Serbian young men. They publicly admitted it, directly, to explain how and how they did it. The Dossow government allowed them to be released and not be behind bars. Whether it was under pressure or not, I don't know, but it's a shame for this country. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Blazic, we in the SRS have a very precise and clear relationship: first, those in Slovenia who killed Serb soldiers, who had no chance, nor wanted, nor had orders to oppose them. They must respond to those who, above all, committed a crime against peace, as the most serious crime, caused a conflict in the area of the former Yugoslavia, those who wanted an illegal secession from the territory of the former Yugoslavia and succeeded in doing so with the help of certain major forces, and then began to implement an ethnic cleansing, harassment, shagging and killing of Serbs. I don't need to remind you that they're at the Koran Bridge of Karlovac, I guess you remember that crime, slit by the throats of all Serbs, all Serbian soldiers, and they left them in those tin crates, with windows where their heads are, to see how they were tortured and how they were killed. I don't need to remind you that it was the same thing in Gospić, as it was done in the village of Varivod, so striking that neither Croatian courts, which absolutely cover up all their crimes, and make it up to the Serbs, could have kept it quiet. I am sure that all citizens remember the persecution of nearly half a million people from their hearths from Serbia's Krajina, which had all the elements of the state: territory, the people, the sovereign government, which had 98% of the people's commitment to stay alive, as a obstacle to the right rather than the right of illegal secession in that state. These people were expelled from their hearths. These men have machine gunned down the criminal Ustasha squadrons, and my father and mother, I think Krapici or something like that, if I'm wrong, I apologize, and I'm sorry, killed three sons by machine gunning them with Petrovic, in Petrovic, Republika Srpska. It is a place that has nothing to do with Croatia. The Croats have never lived in Petrovac, not to lie to each other, perhaps one or two houses. It was all Serbian and some Muslims. But that's why they didn't mind killing whom they arrived and where they arrived. It did not bother anyone to commit the most terrible crimes against the Serbs, because they were not troublesome to anyone. It is only important that Serbs be convicted as genocide, because Serbs are only good when they go, when they take them by hand and take them to the pits. I always wondered, when they took the Serbs in 1941 to 1945, they stood up, how it was possible for three, five Ustashas to come and take 50 Serbs to the pits, without resistance, and kill them in the way they thought of it. Then I realized, in fact, that everyone would want it and that it was the only Serb thing to want. We're only guilty now because for the first time in history we didn't act like that, because we didn't volunteer to go to the pits because we didn't commit voluntary suicide. My father was killed by the whole family that way, everything, the whole village cleaned up, all the men killed. He survived because he was in his mother's belly. Since they rebelled in this war and started fighting, the genocide was immediately because they were defending their hearths, because they were defending their territory, because they were defending their country. That's enough, I'm not talking anymore, at least that's where you're the problem. There is much more powerful and serious pressure on Serbian public opinion. We have the heads of the bandit group, Natasa Kandic and many others who do so, to put a noose around the Serbian people's necks. That's what we're gonna fight for. We will fight not only with our own knowledge, but with our own skill, whether we have it or not, we will fight with all our heart, everything we have to defend and preserve what little is left of Serbia and the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16318	Are any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, answering for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 89(4), they are Article 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a joint principled search of the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs, except SP-NS. First, MP Rajko Baralic applied for the word, and next is MP Slobodan Pajovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16319	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, several laws that we need to regulate some of the issues that have been resolved differently so far or haven't been adequately resolved, ask us to be responsible and to address this in a way that we can help solve these problems. I'll just talk about a few questions. The court fees, and the one who prescribes them, and the one who adopts them, have one function, and for those who pay them, represent the obligation. The measure of things should be that court fees can provide additional or additional financing of costs, ensuring legal protection of citizens, but they should not become so high that citizens do not decide that because they are under threat some rights do not conduct judicial proceedings because they cannot pay a court fee. Mr. Minister, it is your responsibility to measure between these two sides what the environment is and to what extent the height of these obligations may compromise these rights of citizens, while being balanced to that extent, so that they can ensure a more favourable financing of what we call the judiciary. The former minister and former government significantly raised the level of court taxis. If I remember correctly, judicial fees do not enter the consolidated budget in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the judiciary has that money, and now that income is not expressed in the budget. We had an objection when it came to that. To those who spoke here this morning about the fact that it was not good for the finance minister to regulate all this, that the minister of justice should be asked about these funds or the courts themselves, I just want to say that the government, whose minister was Bozidar Djelic, in fact brought amendments to the law on the budgetary system and the vault, which practically happened that one man has all the funds in one day, at one point, all local self-government, all public enterprises, all the budgets, the provinces, municipalities, the Republic. It was completely contrary to what was promised in the election campaign, that conditions would be created among other things for decentralisation, which would give all those I listed the right to, to the extent possible, have their means. So, just that we have a consistent policy and we know who did what when he exercised power and when he was a minister. There are solutions here that provide for those citizens who cannot pay court fees under a special procedure to provide legal protection through certain state authorities, but I am skeptical that it is possible to implement it effectively. In any case, I have faith that this thing will be carefully considered and that if these fees can't carry out a time check, we can correct them, if we estimate that they prevent a number of people from seeking legal protection without having the means and that they can't provide it. It is very important that we have an independent judiciary, and that we have citizens who can provide themselves with this kind of protection, and that, if what we call a classic budget is possible, not all the funds for these costs, as was the case before. This law makes some peace. The next question concerns a whole new area, it is to ensure legal conditions for those involved in technical crime to be prosecuted, I would refer specifically to those people who deal with piracy, which is one difficult form of theft. When someone has God's gift of art, to be a composer, interpreter, painter, ballet champion, etc. And then someone, completely without any scruples, steals what it is his art, his work, and that he can't answer, then it's scary. As technological development progresses, as technical and technological resources are perfected, above all in the fields of digital systems, we have virtually no chance of people I'm talking about stealing from mercilessly without anyone answering. We started a campaign, and that's what we were talking about on the Committee on Culture and Information. The National Television of Serbia, Second Channel, is doing one campaign about it, and we are responsible and we need to do everything we can to prevent this theft, which is no different from stealing, from stealing people who rob someone's apartment, or stealing a car or endangering them by electronic means, or by taking money from their current or gyro-accounts, or by making ends meet their obligations from other people's accounts. All of this needs to be sanctioned so that we can deal with a new era in the sphere of crime, which exists everywhere in the world, even here in our country. We started working at 10.00 today, we didn't say too much about the laws that are here in front of us, but we said something else. I believe that the amendments, the additions or these new laws that we're dealing with will help us to act more effectively in this area. There are no colleagues who have said something that I would like to draw attention to, to replicate, using this regular time, that nothing else has been done in this government and in this ministry. The debate of Serbia's judiciary has been done. I remind you, it was the minister who suggested that the death penalty be returned to Serbia. It was the minister I called Sirano de Bergerak of the Serbian government, who did everything that no one has ever done here, and if there are any valid reasons why me and the party I belong to define to support this government, then it is also that I can't imagine the government of the Republic of Serbia in which Vladan Batic is once again the minister of justice. I couldn't stand it, because that kind of torture and violence, that kind of non-critical jurisprudence, and that kind of total supremacy of the executive authority over the legislative no one in normal Serbia could stand it anymore. Since I'm not a Justice Minister's attorney, he doesn't need my protection. I'm talking about Mr Stojkovic and it wasn't my intention. I just want to remind you that we chose prosecutors, that we chose judges, that the elected contested prosecutors, that those who didn't mind Branislav Ivkovic's support at that time for prosecutors chose people with no business ability, so when there were not enough guarantees that the matter would not go well, Branislav Ivkovic carried out part of the parliamentary group that he had influence on and thus knocked down the quorum. It's the time we're talking about. I'm sorry there isn't a colleague here from the DS, there's actually no one else in the O.R. right now, and that's good. I hope it will be a trend in Serbia. So I'm talking about just reminding ourselves of what time it was and what time we don't want anymore. That's why we're going to vote for what's been proposed here, and that's why, to the extent that we estimate it's necessary, we're going to remind ourselves of this time that I've been talking about here, which wasn't so long ago. Normal conditions are being created, a normal atmosphere, but a more normal atmosphere than it has been in this House, MPs of the opposition normally chair the most important committees, in this House some committees don't have the government's majority, and that up to a year and a half ago here was unimaginable. If we moved into something, then we moved. I appreciate the opportunity to say this here, and, of course, like all the other SPS colleagues, we'll vote for what's been proposed here today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16320	I thank Mr. Baralic. Mr. Slobodan Pajovic has given up, and now he should be at the work of Marko Krstin, he has six minutes, but I don't know if he's had enough, and if not, so I don't interrupt you for half the discussion, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16321	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, we have a package of law enforcement before us. These are the short regulations that were obviously necessary to be passed right now and are therefore under emergency procedure at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to start with a topic relating to the draft law of the competent state authorities to fight high-tech crime, as I consider it most important in this package of laws. By amending the Criminal Code, we have arranged crimes related to the protection of computer data and copyright in the area. This is a new regulation that shows a serious relationship between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this new form of crime, which is not as new as we are now settling the issue. He's been there for years, maybe he should've done it before, but we're setting him up now. This regulation allows special professional bodies to be formed that will be able to fight these new forms of crime. So, there's this crime, but we haven't had any specialized organs that could be affected by these forms of crime so far. I mean here in the D.A.'s office on special prosecution, in the context of judges of a particularly large and police special service. This shows a serious attitude of the state towards new forms of crime, and the new authorities should enable it to actually be implemented in an efficient and rational way. With regard to the rules governing the issues related to the salaries of judges and prosecutors, due to the situation which so far existed in this area, which proved unsustainable, the budget could not finance the salaries according to the manner in which their height was arranged, so that there is a difference between the rules to which the Constitutional Court acted, putting certain acts out of force, and this is one normal way to comply with the regulations and the system. This is how judges' salaries are arranged with special departments and prosecutors. I think it's very important to say that the salaries will be expressed in a realistic way, that it won't be just a mere matter in a regulation that won't be implemented. The judges and prosecutors were kept on making the payments the way they are, and none of those payments were received. I think this is the way to where we really get a real relationship to evaluate these judicial functions and that it would be very good if this law had arranged what is the coefficient for individual salaries, and we don't have it here. That would be very good, if we didn't let it be done by sublaw again. I also believe that this should be the first step towards the goal of establishing a special judicial budget, which is quite fine and which is necessary from the point of view of the constitutional principle of the division of power. This should exist as a special judicial budget, as the Assembly should have its own specific budget, where the president of the assembly or the president of the court would be a authorising officer for such a single budget. I think it's very important that I stress here that this will go through this realistically and raise the salary to the judicial and judicial workers, and I welcome the minister's announcement that he will indeed do so. I also call on the Assembly and suggest that our president be put on the agenda of this assembly as soon as possible, because that is a very important issue. We have the High Council of Justice and he suggested it, but I want to tell you that Novi Sad is eager to wait for 10 judges in the municipal court, I mean that judges at the General Referred, in litigation courts have 350 to 400 cases in work, and it's not just a court of judges, it's a court for people who seek their right, because such a man, to whom a judge who has 400 cases, won't come in line until November. Let me remind you that the judges have scheduled a hearing for November and December. I call upon the Assembly to put it on the agenda as soon as possible and to choose those people. I would also draw attention to certain phenomena in the judiciary, which I think the minister can implement through the issue of judicial administration. Not all judges work neatly and in good time. That's one problem, then, to separate those who work effectively from those who don't work effectively. There we can do much more, and it won't just be enough for us to really express our wages and get judges' salaries, but rewards for those who work, and punishment for those who don't work. I think the minister can do a lot here and I suggest we work on it. Furthermore, when it comes to the Law on Court Taxes, it is related to this problem, I think it is very important that in continuity we achieve the essence of the court fees, these are the revenues of the public service authorities, and this would further mean, without any great interpretation, that the full revenue from the court fees belongs to those bodies that have achieved it. We now have an increase of 50%, as far as it was, to 60% that belongs to them. So it's a justice system to improve the material position, as it's popularly said, of the worker's function, then of the organ equipment and of the material costs. However, I suggest that in the future the new regulation be 100% and that, in practice, the judiciary is even more stimulated, that it works better and more efficiently and realizes all of this. As for the shifts for the increase in taxis, I think they're justified, they only included a correction for the value of inflation for the last three and a half years, and that's fine. On the other hand, there are instruments in procedural laws that allow people, who don't really have to pay these taxes that are once high, to be released, and these rights should be used. That would be brief on all of that. Laws aren't more extensive changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16322	There you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16323	It'll pass this afternoon's part, so I don't forget to answer. Regarding the increase in taxis, it's only half the inflation that won't work like before, that four or five times the taxes are raised, but 50% of the existing inflation. As far as the questions of the judges are concerned, as you say, there will be no threat to the citizens' right to judicial protection here, because everyone can come forward and we have several opportunities to protect them. One of these is to release taxi payments if they are unable to pay them, and the other side is if they succeed in the dispute, and the right is violated, the opposite side is required to return. Thirdly, most importantly, you have passed the Law of Mediation, and as everywhere in the world, an increasing number of these cases end without those expensive litigations that last longer than in the process of calming down and the parties come quickly and efficiently to the protection of their rights, so that it will be provided. As for this proposal of yours to elect judges, I appeal not to allow half of Serbia to remain in V.D. a condition, and then you pass it on to me as it suits me. I'd like to really do that, and I don't think it's going to take much time. In the end, just to say this, it's true that not all judges are doing the same thing, it's true that you should be given an independent budget, but for you for information and now the government determines the basis. Let me tell you, if you change the budget, they now have that item four in the budget and that's their money. I will be the first to vote that they get an independent budget, that the President of the Court or the Prosecutor's Office is responsible for what they spend, because today we have a reverse situation. They spend on the field, I don't know what's going on, and I need to be guaranteed and take responsibility and watch the legality of spending. Therefore, I will be the first to vote to bear responsibility for what they spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16324	The word has Minister Slobodan Vuksanovic. It's an hour's break, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16325	Thank you for giving me your word for both the MPs and the public. I just wanted to inform you about the agreement we reached, the President of the Assembly and I, on behalf of the Government, on the immediate and temporary withdrawal from the agenda of the Higher Education Act for the reasons of respecting all parties, who have submitted a large number of amendments, an unusually large number of amendments. We want to put as much or almost all the amendments as possible, and to be able to achieve that, we need a few days, a certain time, because the Higher Education Act is neither a party nor a political issue, it's an academic issue. In his writings were attended practically by representatives of all parties, deans, professors, all rectors, all representatives of student organisations. They have reached agreement in terms of this basic text, but I would like to, and we all agree to respect all 250 MPs, regardless of which party they are from, so I ask for your understanding. It's about a short space of time needed by both our Assembly Committee and the people of the Ministry. Simply, it needs to be updated, because it has my information close to 200 amendments and we want everyone to enter the text of the law, which is our international obligation, and it is very important to bring it before the school year begins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16326	I thank you, Mr. Vuksanovic. Mr. Sarovic, did you stay in the Rules of Procedure or did you give up? You gave up, thank you. I've been setting a break for an hour. We continue at 3:05 p.m., and the first for a word after the break is the People's MP, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16327	Good afternoon. We'll continue our afternoon work. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, George Mamul. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16328	Ladies and gentlemen, today we seem to be starting with the Rules of Procedure on time, also according to the Rules of Procedure with 50 members of Parliament present, and we think that this is really unacceptable. That's what we said when it came to the Rules of Procedure. I have a need to point out today that this is playing with the National Assembly, such as the government's relationship to this Parliament playing with this Parliament. It is obvious that the Serbian government is unable to propose a serious law to parliament. We saw that at the end of the afternoon, when Minister Vuksanovic appeared here, however, there were only a dozen MPs in the O.R., so many did not hear. He's here to say he's withdrawing the Higher Education Act. He says, "In agreement with the President of the Assembly, briefly." What does that mean? I've really never heard of it before. The law is in procedure or retreating from procedure. Is that short, is it long, I guess we'll see about that. Minister Vuksanovic explained that the law was withdrawn because about 200 amendments were submitted to the law. Of course, it speaks of the quality of the law, but also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the minister could consider these amendments, possibly some to adopt, which he thinks should be adopted and that they should become an integral part of the law. I'm saying this because I didn't believe Minister Vuksanovic that what he said here was the reason why the law is withdrawing, but when it's on the agenda, that law, which was already in this National Assembly once, will magically disappear in 12 days. But good, about that – then. So, when it comes to this set of laws, pretentiously, about the judiciary, it is that we are here today discussing seven legislative proposals, while we have essentially only one new law, and everything else has been amended and added to the law, which is also, according to the position of the Serbian Radical Party, inadmissible, because for a year and a half this government has been able to do really seriously, not every month or two days, per se to existing laws. Well, then we have one or two members, or three members, that's the amendments and the additions of the laws, and then when one of the representatives of the assembly's majority, or the president of the assembly, in the media is talking about the work of parliament, he says that we've brought 400, 500, 600 or I don't know how many laws, and within that, more than half of them are where one or two members change, and that at a certain point, it seems to the government's representatives that it might be good to have eyes on the citizens of Serbia, and then come up with some laws that essentially don't mean anything and don't solve anything. That's right with these laws of justice. Of course, the result of the bad law on justice, and we've been saying it since 2000, is such a bad state of that very important area of social life, and it is the consequence that everything that has been debated here in the afternoon. Of course, I have no intention of returning to the subject again, but I stress that the judiciary is well-faulted because we have phenomena like Natasa Kandic in this society and that after such lies, which she has made, the public prosecutor is not responding. It is simply incomprehensible for us Serbian radicals, but apparently it is not yet of interest to the prosecutor. Several months back, Minister Stojkovic and other government members speak and promise to raise salaries to judges. Of course, it is a reaction to the demand for judges to increase their salaries and we Serbian radicals are convinced that judges in Serbia do not receive adequate compensation for their work. Also, we are convinced that salaries should be increased by all the employees of the judiciary, therefore, both to dactylographs and professional associates, advisers, and to all those who are employed should be paid to increase. But we believe that what is foreseen by the budget is the obligation of the Serbian government to secure that money in the budget and not to happen, when at some point Minister Dinkic finds that there is not enough funds for the judges' salaries, then only to agree with the Registrar to get the law here on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees. Then it can really go wrong. Whenever the government needs money to fill the budget, then they'll say, "Let's impose on the villa." I really think so much has been taxed in many ways that this is, at the very least, impertinent. Insolently because we have in one part an increased tax, in another part a brand-new tax, which has been collected under various laws that have been passed in this House, which envisions various crimes for the violation of these laws. Of course, when it comes to these laws, we Serbian radicals have warned, and now we say that criminal matter should be codified, that we have in one place all the crimes, that we have in one place all the court fees and that we are not misleading the MPs or the public of Serbia. You know, if this law on amendments and additions to the Law on judicial fees had to be seriously reviewed, a large number of laws had to be transposed into this law. That is why we from the Serbian Radical Party have submitted a number of amendments to this law. Of course, we won't vote for him, as well as for these other laws, because we think they're completely unnecessary, that the government could have solved the pay issue in the judiciary without this. I'm looking at this argument of the Court Tax Act. The government says, implementing this law does not require the provision of additional funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but it is necessary to provide additional funds from the pockets of Serbian citizens. That's what we in the Serbian Radical Party disagree with. A special story is the charge of a court cab. It's a hoax and all the judges know it, all the judges say it, that this law doesn't really mean an increase in the salary of judges, because even now the court fees don't charge, there's no way the court can make them pay court fees, citizens don't pay them because they're still too high court fees. The court is under obligation to act on the case, whether or not the tax is paid. Is that right, Minister? So, there's no way to force some extra tax to pay to fit into the budget and raise the salaries to the judges. Of course, we don't mind all judicial fees being directed at judges' salaries, but these court fees have to be moderated, they have to be tailored to the economic power of Serbian citizens, because we can't get into a situation where high taxes on Serbian citizens make them solve their own, say, property relations, because they don't have the money to sue, and then you know what that can lead to. In the reasons for the adoption of the law, it was said that the increase in the amount of court fees was last implemented by the law on amendments and additions in 2002, and since there has been a mutilation in the past period of the amount of court fees due to inflation, their correction is proposed in line with the inflation rate. I'm afraid this has not been seen by the finance minister since he tells the Serbian citizens a completely different story. He doesn't say there's inflation, nor that there's been such drastic inflation in these two years that it's also reflected in court fees. In an analysis of the effects of the law, it is said that applying the solutions proposed in this law will generate additional costs for citizens, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, but will also contribute to the increase in budget revenues. This is really inappropriate. So, this government is fully aware of the negative effects of this law, but regardless, the government needs money, the budget needs money, it doesn't care about any of the citizens of Serbia, about medium and small enterprises. On the one hand, we say that we want to develop medium and small enterprises, and on the other hand, the promoter says that this will be an additional imposition on these companies as well. In the end, you say what are the reasons why this law is adopted by emergency procedure - since the funds from the court taxis are used, in addition to that, to improve the material position and conditions of the work of judges and employees in the judicial bodies, the adoption of laws by emergency procedure would result in adverse consequences for the work of these authorities. This really doesn't make sense. If they could work with such wages as they're working with today, there's no reason not to have it for the next month or two days, if there's no other way to raise their salaries. I say, you will see that even after this law is passed, there will not be an increase in salaries for judicial employees, at least it will not be something sensitive, or close to what judicial employees expect from this government. I'd like to, I think I've talked about this before, that the Resort Ministry once, when it comes to these fees, would like to give us a precise specification of how many of the court fees are collected in Serbia, how many of them are not charged, how many of these charges are actually paid by judicial employees. I think we'd be surprised by the results of that analysis. As for these other laws, which have also been amended and complemented, we have amendments to them too, because the principled attitude of the Serbian Radical Party and the attitude towards the High Council of Justice has been expressed through all these amendments. We will, of course, assume that soon it will be on the agenda and the choice of judicial functions and the election of the president of the courts, and then we will discuss more and more in detail the High Council of Justice and the relationship between the High Council of Justice towards judicial functions and the judiciary. We have a new law here, and it's a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities to fight high-tech crime. Since we have submitted amendments to this law in the sense that the proposed members are being deleted, I think I am obliged to explain to you why our view of this law is. Of course, not because we don't think these crimes should exist, as you said, against high-tech crime -- they should, too. In the current Criminal Law, there are these crimes, and that is why we think it is completely unnecessary to bring some new Lex specialis, and that is again our principled position that we are against the Lex specialis, that we are to codify criminal-legal matter, that this is the only real way to regulate this issue and that this is the only way to lay the real foundations of the rule of law. But why did you propose this law? Because in this law you have provided for another special court, another special prosecutor's office, another special administration to fight this type of crime. That's what we from the Serbian Radical Party were up against now, and at the time when the District Court Special Branch was formed. So today, Minister, when you were saying that you had no idea that this court was abolished, I threw it out of your bench and now I'm telling you in public that it would be better if you had had that idea and had abolished that court. We don't have the need yet, especially for additional special courts, because their specialty is that only elected judges are taken to these courts. It's known how you become a judge who could go to a special court, who needs to be close, how you do it, etc. Of course, there's a special salary in that special court. I am really asking the question – what is the difference between a judge of the Belgrade District Court, who is doing some guilt, and judges of the District Court of the Special Crimes Department, who exist in this court, or this new special judge in the fight against high-tech crime? Why, in what way and on what basis do we demean judges who are other judges of the District Court? If they're not good for these special functions, then they're no good to be judges, if they're not good to be judges, then I don't know what they're doing to us in county courts. Of course, I don't think so. I'm convinced that there are much more high-quality judges left in the District Court than those who went to Special Branch. For this reason, we from the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for this bill, because we are sure that the fight against this type of crime can be done at the level of regular courts, with judges who judge in regular courts. There is no need for any special courts, no special prosecutions, no special institutions to fight this or that kind of crime -- simply every crime should be incriminating in Criminal Law and that, by law enforcement, courts, prosecutors and administrations, they are fighting all kinds of crime in the state. At a time when the District Court Special Branch was formed, you might have been able to tell us that we are wrong, that we are predicting something that will happen one way or another, but after experience with this special court, I think it is clear to each and every one of you that further "specialization" of prosecutors and judges are completely unnecessary. I think this law, like all six or seven of them, may be too harsh, but it's really a waste of time. Nothing essentially improves by passing these laws: neither will judges and court employees nor will Serbia's citizens be better. I do wonder what the motive for this and any law is, if no one in Serbia will be better than one such law and why we are wasting our time, you Ministers and the Government of Serbia. Instead of really taking this seriously to solve very important problems, which is the problem in the Serbian judiciary, that this is done in a comprehensive way and that we once pass laws that will not change every two months, such as this law on judges, because I just counted that this is his tenth change today. We feel that this is truly unserious and that it can be done in the first month or two of the government's existence, but for a year and a half since the formation of the government, they change again with one member who, as I said, means nothing, which is unacceptable to us from the Serbian Radical Party and that is why we will vote against all these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16329	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Mamula, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared. Just a moment, Mr. Mamula, at the same time I'm informing you, according to Article 81 paragraphs 5 and 6, we'll be working today until the end of the search. Here you go, Mr. Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16330	This package of judicial laws proposed should be adopted as a whole. I would particularly refer to the proposal for a law on the organisation and jurisdiction of state authorities in the fight against high-tech crime. In 2003, the Criminal Law was amended by amending some crimes previously related to computer crime, and the latest changes in 2003 took over solutions from the Convention on Cybercrime, which was signed in 2001 in Budapest by the Council of Europe. These crimes have been accepted on the European continent and cannot be prosecuted in any other way but precisely through the provisions of new crimes in the Convention which has been ratified. This crime has spread very quickly over the last 15 years, and some countries have invested heavily in computer equipment. In the 1980s, in addition to the national income criterion per capita, a second measure of the state's economic power began to be used, which is investment in computer equipment. So did Japan at the end of the '80s. For years he invested $120 per capita in computer equipment, America around $90, Western Europe about $80 per capita per year, and the rest of the capitalist world around $50, Eastern Europe 30, and then Yugoslavia below $10. However, this crime has begun to develop and tend to some thinkers of the time that our advantage of being left behind is no longer to be respected. So that's no longer an advantage. We must follow the world to which we belong. We've recently had some crimes of computer crime associated with pornography, and I'm referring to the case in Capco. Recently in Zagreb, in the neighbouring country, a work of computer crime with political motivation was discovered, so thanks to experts, a newspaper revealed who was behind it. The whole region, which respects this legislation, must be prepared specifically for the fight against this crime and that legal experts, judges and prosecutors who are going to push this far seriously to overcome. I was able to see a textbook for law school students, besides the literature list, there are no European search engines in European and world legislation at the end of the book, and on the constitutional courts of Europe, the world, the Supreme Courts in some countries. We, first of all, need to change the way we study in law schools to educate people to fight crime. That is why it is necessary to adopt this bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities to combat high-tech crime, in order to have a special prosecution and special courts, or a special district court according to the Belgrade proposal and the Belgrade District Prosecutor's Office for the entire territory of Serbia, because it is indeed necessary to have very much knowledge to oppose this type of crime. In the Bill of Criminal Code, as you could see, there are the following crimes related to computer data security: damage to computer data and programs, computer sabotage, creation and introduction of computer viruses, computer fraud, unauthorized access to a computer and computer network and electronic data processing, prevention and organisation and restricting access to a public computer network, unauthorized use of computers or computer networks. It's a lot of serious and serious crimes, and some other crimes are being committed. I don't think it's left to our will, but it is necessary that we adopt this bill on the organisation and jurisdiction of the state authorities to fight high-tech crime, because it now requires us and the world. No one can justify any more that there was no knowledge or way to organize a state in the fight against this type of crime. I think it is very good that the bill stresses that in a special prosecution and a special court, prosecutors or judges who understand computer data security, i.e. information crime, and who will also have to learn about the technique of detecting these acts, the method of detecting this type of crime. Also, since there were some tones here during the debate and compared the judiciary since March 2004 to the previous period, I think we should remind ourselves that there have been such changes in the judiciary that more than 120 prosecutors could not be re-elected, which has caused great damage to Serbia's judiciary, of which it still cannot be repaired. Large court shifts also led to the election of many judges completely unprepared for judicial work. So those shifts, which were then done and when they actually wanted to extend the emergency after the suspension, can't be removed that easily. I couldn't respect those objections from my colleagues, Markovic. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16331	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic, and let MP Zivojin Stefanovic be prepared. Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16332	Chairman, I'm asking...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16333	Wait a minute, Mr. Markovic. So, in the order of the list, and now I've taken over the chairman's seat here, the president has shown that you have no right to the line, which has led the session so far. Here you go, in order from the list. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16334	In the last sentence, Mr. Mamula mentioned me and said that part of his exposure refers to me. What does the President of the Assembly have to do with him leaving the hall now, whether you're going to give me the right to a replica, how you can even think about whether you're going to give me the right to a replica. Mr. Mamula, please tell me if you mentioned me now in the last sentence of your presentation. He misread me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16335	Mr. Markovic, here's what I believe, and I'm saying I didn't hear. I believe you, please. Replica, Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16336	As far as replica rights are concerned, I won't be using a lot of time for replication. I don't understand, Mr. Mamula, that DSS problem with the Sabela action. Everything about Sabela's action has already been debated a thousand times. You as a party have a problem with Sabre, as others here have a problem with Srebrenica. I understand the DSS and her problems, but my God, time is going to sort it out in some way and I'm ending this replica, and I'm not going to go into that question at all if we were supposed to be doing this or that. I must remind you that we have been admitted to the Council of Europe during the Sabre, and no one has respected any lawlessness or any violation of human rights. So much for the Sabre action. I'm finishing the line, so I can get a word in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16337	Here you go, Mr. Markovic, now in order from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16338	So, in the opening statement, on behalf of the DS, I made our views on the amendments and additions to the laws proposed here. These amendments and additions to the law are nothing more than a further attempt by Minister Stojkovic and the government of the Republic of Serbia to subdue the judicial authority to the executive authority. I believe that since 2000, there has never been this much influence of the executive authority over the court, as it is now, and this is only going to expand further. However, the whole act towards subjugating the judicial authority to an executive here is carried out in one direction that can be very dangerous to the state. That's what we warned you about in the morning. It is, in fact, that the position of persons acting in special departments is worsened, i.e. in so-called ‘species’. Special courts, or special prosecutor's office. The position of those persons, who are faced with special responsibility, with special risks and with particularly complex criminal acts, with the elements of organised crime, is changed in relation to the position of other judges, and they lose the motive to adequately perform their duties. Taking into account all that has been heard in public, since the coming of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, in conclusion with this today, it is justified that there is a public suspicion, which is that there is a proper relationship between the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the organised crime trial, especially the trial for the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. In that sense, I would like to remind you that Minister Stojkovic spoke publicly about the Special Court and that the Special Court should not exist. Here, fellow Serbian radicals say it's true. I know you and the DSS agree. Furthermore, I remind you there was a lot of noise about the alleged shift of Jovan Prijic, the special prosecutor. Mr. Secretary here replied that he wasn't the one who was being replaced. Mr. Minister, it's for a lot of naive people to trust you. I just can't trust you, because I know what your influence on the judiciary is and on V.D. Public prosecutor, I forgot his name, Jankovic, who was so prominent at the time and it sucks that I can't remember now. I especially remind you of the intercepted talks between Dejan Milenkovic Bagzi and his lawyer Biljana Kaiganic, and that the issue remains unresolved. Also, I want to remind you of the problems that existed at the route Minister Stojkovic - the Supreme Court of Serbia, and all those problems concerning payouts and in the Supreme Court, and for the Special Department, which would deal with second-degree organised crime. If we accept that from some principle point of view Minister Stojkovic's remarks were correct, in that sense whether special departments should be separated and made in one country, we do not need special departments, etc., we can say that Minister Stojkovic is not directly responsible for this. Minister Stojkovic is, above all, a politician, and he must see the overall political context in which he operates. The overall political context in which we all act as politicians as politicians is that we live in a country where crime, particularly organised crime, has released deep roots in the past 15 years and it is justified to ask whether the Serbian state is capable of coping with this crime. The DS position on this is as follows: it is clear that such actions by the minister question the work on organised crime cases, and thus weakens the ability to fight the competent state authorities, primarily the judiciary, to combat this type of crime. The DS also issued a statement on this occasion, part of which I have now read. In the afternoon discussion, I resented Minister Stojkovic for this: the minister certainly, as we do, shares confidence that the judiciary budget should be independent and that it does not need the Ministry of Justice, or the executive body to be the commanding officer for the implementation of the budget. The truth is, he's a member of 15. The budget law provides that the commanding minister is to implement the budget, but that is no reason for the minister to obtain that authority through these amendments, even when it comes to determining the salaries of prosecutors and judges working in organised crime departments. In relation to regular judges, they are being brought into an unequal position. What's done is done, what's a little bit of difference they should have, they only have if the minister himself agrees with it. I honestly think that neither the minister should have taken the responsibility, nor should we as a society have further deepened the suspicions of the government's good intentions and of Minister Stojkovic when it comes to the organised crime trial, and above all to the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Mr. Secretary, the answer to me, has made an effort to explain that I don't understand these things. It is not disputed that Mr. Minister knows the right far better and has great knowledge and great experience, but that does not mean that he uses it properly. And with much more modest knowledge and much more modest experience, you can make more correct conclusions and decisions and carry them out in action. Mr. Minister, I am fully aware of what independence is, what independence is. I'm surprised you even thought I didn't know that. As for your government's connection to organized crime, I didn't say you had anything to do with organized crime. I just said that we meet daily, in the press, in public, with various statements and today's DSS officials and the Prime Minister's Council on the fight against corruption and many others that corruption has reached its limits in this country. So it burned to the nail. The day cannot pass without the opening of a newspaper without mentioning corruption and affairs concerning the Yugoslav Army, corruption and affairs concerning the Ministry of Finance, Corruption and the affairs concerning the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, corruption and affairs, I don't know who and I don't know what anymore, because that's no longer normal man can catch it. In that context, I was saying, Mr. Minister, that this government has a serious problem with corruption, which appears as a priority topic, a daily topic, whatever topic you want in our society. From morning to night, from show to show - corruption, the story of corruption. The politicians' face-to-face with corruption in the government of the Republic of Serbia are the most visible shows on our television. It's more difficult to tell who's in charge of that story, when a DSS official and a G17 plus official appear and rings on all sides who stole more money, according to their statements. Of course, whether or not someone did it will be decided by the competent authorities in this country, if they ever do. So in that context, I mentioned organized crime and your government. I don't even know how you can ignore the fact that daily ministers from your government are on the front page of the paper. The discovery of the affair, that's what we had controversy about in the morning. I cannot believe that for all the problems in Serbia your related parties, the SPS, the DSS, the SRS, will accuse the DS. Well, is DS guilty of everything in this Serbia? Since when, from the migration of Serbs to the Balkans, from the 6th and 7th centuries and beyond, it's always the DS' fault. It's an honor to meet you. Continue to make the citizens of Serbia happy. Here, they love you, keep making them happy. We've seen what that looked like since 1990. It's a strange form of patriotism. Sounds nice, but it gives bad results. As for the discovery of affairs, how do you even think about saying that affairs don't reveal themselves, because the DS allegedly has contacts in the judiciary. What kind of contacts do we have in the judiciary, Mr. Minister, when it's a public secret that the DSS, the SRS and the SRS are fully in charge of the Serbian judiciary's staff policy? What kind of contacts do we have in the parvosidium when General Obradovic, who was the leader of the fight against organised crime in the "Sabbe" action, holds 60 days in custody. A few lawyers, especially a citizen, can believe that it wasn't revenge, or that it wasn't political revenge for what he was doing in "Sabbe" action. You say, "Honor, honest and professional people, "to come to justice." So what is the criterion with us to bring honest, honest and professional people to justice? The criterion was this: if a member of the Justice Committee says he is a candidate – he is yellow, or he is close to the DS, he cannot pass. So, being a member of the DS in Serbia, which you would like to create, is to be left without the right to work, and probably without some larger, more significant rights, if that possibility is given. So that's the frameping either. What kind of personneling was there, what was the dispute in the first place, I'm specifically asking these parties that aren't DSS, these other two? What was it about? You've voted all the personnel changes in Serbia's judiciary. The President of the Supreme Court was voted by Socialists, Radicals, as well as other changes made by the Committee on Justice. Is it true or not true, whether he may have the intention of a colleague now to come out and say that it is not true that you voted for all of this or that you otherwise allowed a vote for those holders of judicial functions. What does DS have to do with the situation in the Serbian judiciary now? Either these two or three years, as long as this party was in power, you're going to use the next 20 years to explain, it's all because the DS was in power for two or three years. You say -- we changed the laws that you proposed, and we adopted them in 2002. We've changed them, and what we've changed is back to the old ones, and it doesn't matter, there's not much that's right, we've established here together, we've supported you when you've put a part of it back to the old ones, but the legislative framework, the justice system works according to the laws that you've proposed. You've proposed here, blackmailed us and said - we won't vote for the Labour Act unless you vote for us this set of laws. It was here in parliament, MPs who were in the last session remember, and since there's the DSS, we, when we voted you this, you cheated on us and didn't vote the Labour Act right away. But, well, my God, you voted afterwards, when some other things ended up being said. But it doesn't matter, I've never negotiated with you, nor taken part in those negotiations, so I've had a problem with that from the beginning, let me tell you right away. (SRS emissaries get the speaker, but he doesn't understand. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16339	I ask the MPs not to get a speaker to get serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16340	So this was funny, it was a time when radicals were less close to ruling foreigners, so they were watering the chairmanship of the Parliament. Now they're close, you're making a deal about the judges, so you won't be watering Predrag Markovic, but I'll tell you something else. So, in that sense, I want to respond to everything that you, Mr. Minister, have told me is appropriate to my exposure, which had no intention of insulting you, nor of hitting any fight, but that's how you responded to me. As far as the Tax Act is concerned, it will go to harm, i.e. it will only go to the expense of the parties, because the Tax Act actually raises taxis, but not with regard to the increase in the value of the dispute, but in the same value of the dispute, the tax increases by 30%. It is the gathering of bigger money, but it is practically a kind of taxation of those who intend to go to court and seek some of their rights. But if you don't have a different way, a different source of income, then obviously this is the only way and you have to make sure that these taxes don't just lead to people resorting to different ways of solving problems, or out of court to solve problems, as we've already had. Because, among other things, after that study I read to you earlier in the afternoon, it is said that in most countries in transition, it was done around 2002, it took more than 200 days to collect debts without cover, which is twice as long as in developed economies, where it is 100 days, and in Serbia-Montenegro is about three years or 1,000 days. Now that you take it where it takes 1,000 days, when you consider that taxes are too big, people can turn somewhere else, not into courts. I hope that's not going to happen in principle, we don't need that. In the end, I'll just repeat a few key things. I think my colleague Bosko Ristic will talk more about it. The intention is to have DS after two years, or three years of this experiment that we have, which is the DSS project in solving the problem in the judiciary, with certain additional experiments that we did in the previous period in order to fix something there. If they were not successful, we intend to go before the citizens of Serbia and the Serbian judiciary with a new set of law on justice, which we will try to arrange for the judiciary in a way that is no longer a topic, or the pain of Serbian citizens, and which we will try to give the judiciary a chance that Serbian citizens have more confidence in it than it is now, and now it's all about 10%. We will insist that the judiciary be truly independent and on the other hand be responsible. We believe that independence will be ensured by the different arrangements for the choice of members of the High Council of Justice. We believe that members of the High Council of Justice from the public prosecutor's office should be elected by the public prosecutor's office holders, therefore, deputy public prosecutors and public prosecutors in Serbia. In particular, whether it will be directly or indirectly, through some assembly or some other body of self-government of the prosecutor's office, it is not very important, but it is important to make territorial representation and to make representation at all levels, so that it is representatives, three in the order of the municipal, two in the order of the district and one in the order of the deputy public prosecutor. We believe that when it comes to the holders of judicial functions that their representatives in the High Council of Justice should also be elected in the elections they themselves will organise in accordance with the law that will be passed for that purpose, that is, to treat that matter, and normally they will choose their representatives in the High Council of Justice again by the same principles. There's no need to do that to anyone else. Let those people choose those who represent them there. Why do we propose this way of choosing? Because we believe that since 2002, a conservative judicial and prosecutorial oligarchy has been created in Serbia and that a practical centre of power, which may once have been a government, a policy, does not matter who, now it is the High Council of Justice. The truth in the past year has been little taken over by Minister Stojkovic, but in principle whoever does it is the same and we do not have an independent judiciary. The participation of the National Assembly should also be determined by giving a number of representatives to the High Council of Justice. The same applies to the Bar Association, which should also be given by a number of representatives, and the decision-making session of the High Council of Justice must be made public and a decision-making system must be established which means that the election and resolution decision must be given to not a simple majority, but by a majority that will involve most of the selected groups. So it can't happen that prosecutors and judges vote through these two groups, but everywhere there's something similar to what we have in the state community, that kind of qualified majority. Of course, it is all then complete preparation that tomorrow or when this change is already in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we should definitely clear up with the idea that the National Assembly is choosing the holders of judicial functions. We think that a clear system of responsibility must be established for prosecutors and judges, that this system must have a diapazone of measures, that these measures must go from the least financial penalties and warnings, etc. to the strictest, and that's a solution. But, of course, it's not just a question to establish these measures, it's a question that requires and answers in the form of bodies to carry out these actions. We believe that in the prosecutions there should be a special disciplinary prosecutor, we believe that it is not disputed that there is something like that in the courts, we see that the Great personal council and that the system provided under this law is not working and that despite the fact that we all agree that the situation in the judiciary is catastrophic, we have no responsibility, no one is responsible for the situation in the Serbian judiciary except the DS, which is guilty and when it rains and when the sun shines, but that's another question. As for the independent budget, we said, therefore, that is a condition for an independent judiciary, because the President of the Supreme Court cannot call the minister, to beg him whether he will or will not sign anything. True, I don't think this minister is causing any problems, but I am speaking in general and systematically, whoever the minister is, he doesn't need that responsibility, and he doesn't need to ever question his good will and his democratic principles. I wanted to say something that we said when there was a law here on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges and Public Prosecutors, when you replaced prosecutors who participated in the "Sabbe" action, and then I said, and I will repeat now, I have a part of that speech here, I believe that the deputy public prosecutors should primarily have continuity, and the public prosecutors can re-election when it comes to the public prosecutor's office. That a public prosecutor is elected from the ranks of deputy public prosecutors, so if he fails to comply with certain norms or standards, he returns to the position of deputy public prosecutor, because he was probably good, and if he was not good, some procedure of responsibility can be carried out in this regard. We have one reverse system here, our deputies are going to re-election, and the DA is not going to re-election. Look now, when the deputy is going to re-election, the logical question is why are we putting some deputy public prosecutor on reelection, and if he's not doing well, then there should be some disciplinary bodies acting and determining his responsibility and saying, for God's sake, you're not a deputy public prosecutor, you're doing a good job or punishing yourself with some other measure. If he is, however, good, why should he be given the chance that unless he may respect someone’s political desire or be a good companion with some within the justice system or the prosecution system itself, he will be resolved after eight years. So we remain on that proposal. When we end up adding all these proposals that we do not make for the first time, when we find a situation in our judiciary that is disastrous and when we know that citizens' trust in the Serbian judiciary is at an extremely low level, and therefore trust in the state, we ask why, ministers, we have this bill by emergency procedure, not a bill that would in a comprehensive way regulate the system of justice, where all together we would try to raise the judiciary in Serbia to some branches that would give a perspective to Serbia's development as a rule of law. By the way, this was also not in line with the current rules of procedure, you did not explain the reasons for the emergency procedure, this does not apply to you, Mr. Minister, the President of the Assembly should take care of these matters, there are no reasons for the emergency procedure. An emergency procedure, it says, can and can be justified, it is necessary that there are circumstances which could not have been predicted, etc., and none of these are mentioned here, only one general provision that there may be some adverse consequences if the pay is not reduced, or if the person who judges in the Special Court is not in an unequal position compared to the one who does not judge. I don't know who the bad consequences can come for then, because only justice can come about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16341	Mr Krasic first reported to the Rules of Procedure, so Mrs Comic, and before that he will receive the word of the minister, but please let me just give you three notifications. First, I ask the MPs to read, respect and follow the laws. None of these seven laws are under emergency procedure, Mr. Markovic, none. So, emergency procedures were withdrawn about a month ago, please, none of them are in an emergency procedure and don't worry. Secondly, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, I have two other notifications, one is - the 18th session of the Education Committee is cancelled for 27 June 2005. This is due to the fact that today, on behalf of the promoter, he was withdrawn from the procedure of the Higher Education Act. Please, you have no reason to throw it away, because now we're working on a new rules of procedure and the fact that the proposing's representative is withdrawing the law, and we've now defined the new Rules of Procedure, it can only be made out of the procedure, otherwise he would have to make a proposal to withdraw from the agenda and then the Assembly would have declared it. Therefore, any statement by the minister is a withdrawal from the procedure, otherwise a proposal would be sought on which the assembly would plead. So you know, and to be all ready, that on Monday, in fact, we're going to continue the debate in principle from points 9 to 16, and it's very important that you can prepare yourself, so that you don't have these mistakes to think that some law is an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. Excuse me one more time, Mr Stojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16342	I'll try to answer a few questions that are raised here as a problem and directly referred to me. As for the codification of the Criminal Code, I think we're getting it for the first time. If you have noticed, more amendments have been put in place, because waiting in the Assembly to be adopted for more than six or seven months, and we've adopted several more important declarations and international conventions, so we've had Naples, so we've had about cyber crime, so we've had about corruption in the civil law area, etc., not to mention. For these reasons, we tried to codify everything, but it's clear to us as lawyers that you can never codify everything, we have to codify those basic things, and life is something else, there's always new things, and they're regulated by the rule of special laws, that is, every law can bring a crime. The desire was to capture as many of these basic and essential things as possible by codification, and we did it. I have to point out the constant error that's happening here. When it comes to this cybercrime law, or organs, there's no talking about departments. I'm one of those supporters who thinks we can't rip up a court whenever something new comes up, but specialization has to exist today, and the court is unique. You also have today's departments, i.e. special councils for labour disputes, you have copyright and industrial property, but the larger ones that do these items, do some other items and there are no special departments. As far as I know, it's bigger. You have a special prosecutor at the D.A.'s office, but you forget that it's a law enforcement body and it's not a court, and we're trying to keep it. As for the issue of raising taxes, it is true that they are slightly raised, because half of them are inflation, not the whole, not five times as before, and ten times, but 50 percent of the inflation that was, counting that it could not have been raised, and given out of the budget, but then burden all the people who pay in the budget, and a good number does not appear before the court. In that sense, it was taken care of. As far as the remarks are concerned, which are essentially directly to me, to tell you the truth, I'm a little confused. I thought the laws were on the agenda, but I realized I was here on the agenda, so there were all kinds of objections. One of the ones that was put in, and I said it was incorrect, but it's repeated. I guess they heard what I said, but now I see they're not. I'm going to say one more time, when it comes to a special department, not a special court, but a special department, it says here that the executive government wants to impose its will, so I need to instruct the information and the citizens now, to see how it is manipulated. The salaries to the judges in the special department are determined by the government's conclusion and raised their salary three times, so the government, it has nothing to do with the law, because the government could, for example, work, and tomorrow to cut those salaries, so it doesn't have enough to say. If there was an intervention, it was then and then there was one major danger when the executive government rewarded three or four times someone, the basic principle that we accepted about an independent natural judge, and that's the judge who creates an image of independence. Whether I'm a defendant or a prosecutor or not, it must be created in citizens, but if I can give as executive power ten times a salary, then a picture is created of an addict judge and a rewarding judge. We wanted to avoid it and do it ourselves. As for the reduction, they say, the relationship remained the same. Now I'll tell you, the basic salary of these judges is 87,000, and the salary of the District Court judges in Belgrade is about 40,000; so one to two comas is a relationship. With these changes in salary, it increases with judges of the District Court in Belgrade to 52,000, and these judges will receive a basic salary of 114,800. So they're getting paid, too. Even the relationship keeps the same. So I'm asking you once to clear it up and not create an incorrect picture in public. My colleague said I was older, more experienced, and I had knowledge. At least he could have taken something or remembered what I said. He's hooking me up with Bugsy again, I don't know how. Maybe he could have been with that prosecutor they picked or with the ones who brought it up. Because it was said that there was a stenogram, said the journalist Vasic, and he played a stenogram. I really don't know if it exists or not, Mr. Vasic obviously has better relations with Mr. Prijic, and not me, because "Insider" announced, in a statement by Mr. Popovic, that Minister Stojkovic is pressuring Prosecutor Prijic not to release a stenogram. That's when I found out, so he's got a stenogram. But apparently people in this other branch know that, not me, because I didn't get a chance to see him, nor did I. That's when I made an open call - please, call Mr. Prijic, let him play the whole stenogram, let's see what it says, and let me get to know myself. He wasn't at Insider anymore, you noticed, after all the announcements and advertising, he was gone. Why? It speaks of a very clear situation. Since I don't know Mr. Prijic, it was obviously untrue manipulations, and it's happening again now. But other people obviously know him. It's said I asked for Mr. Prijic's shift. I said I didn't mention it once, and I don't care about him. That's why I didn't even meet him, I didn't even meet him, to come in and contact him. He's being appointed by the D.A., and may be replaced or extended at the end. I had nothing to do with it. I repeat that, but I guess someone will remember that now. When I get a chance to set it up, maybe I'll set it up, maybe I won't, but I don't have a chance right now. It's said in an affair, it's not a river, it says not for you, but for your government, and I'm a member of the government. I don't know what kind of affairs, if it's the one that comes out every day in the paper, none of them prove themselves. I even said in public - I'll take your oil. She went on a list. Which is why and his reckoning with some ministers, that's another thing. But if you think it's an affair, and the fact that the government allegedly founded a commission, self-control, is completely false. He was doing Ubpok, he came to the conclusion that it was even a good job, not to mention. Therefore, you can produce some falseness every time, but it really needs to be proved. Not to mention, don't tie me up, because I do care about my cheek. You said I had any effect on people during the election, and you said so yourself when you ask the question that he's DS -- that's out of the question. I hope that one day we will fight to choose people without having any influence from the party or, in my opinion, the judges and prosecutors should not be members of the DS, the DSS, the radicals. That's my money. So I'm surprised by your public opinion that he can be a member of the party, so it means we're re-elected by these same authorities. Finally, your proposal on judicial reform. After all, you have the Council of Europe's evaluation, how it was and where it was headed. You have one thing that surprises me. You said yourself that you could at least listen to what I'm saying, if you won't accept. But you said the prosecutors would choose themselves, punish themselves. Great, you're getting the State of Prosecutors. They don't account for anyone. Then what do you have? Obviously, you have misunderstood that this is a system to divide the authorities, but to divide the authorities in which the court, not the prosecutor, says nicely – the court; they are mutually pervaded and controlled. This proposal of yours would mean that they can do whatever they want, don't account for anyone. You're the only one who would have to explain who would provide funds for that state of prosecutors, since they would be independent and do what they wanted? I don't think that's how it works. However, I am informing you again that a national justice reform strategy has been made. There was a first draft, there was a round table, people put in objections and suggestions, there was a tender, international organisations, now you'll have a document in early July, you'll all get it, you'll be able to see what justice reform looks like. Under it, working groups will also work on basic laws. Right away, it's going to depend on the Constitution a little bit, because it needs to be matched by the basic principles that need to be laid down in the Constitution. As far as impeccableness is concerned, the situation is tragic, I agree with you, so we inherited it. But the situation improves with these changes and, I say, according to the latest data -- twenty percent is improved up-to-date. A good number of courts have managed to get judges to make judgments, which have not been done in a year or two or three days. So at least we have that satisfaction. The quality issue will be resolved by education and improving the knowledge of the judges we have found. What do we do, what do we have, and we have to deal with it? But I'm sure we'll do it. Once again, I ask that we return to the law, and if necessary, I don't mind sitting down and talking about me personally, but not keeping the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16343	Thank you. First, according to the Rules of Procedure Zoran Krasic, then according to the Rules of Procedure, the National MP Gordana Komic, and then Mr Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16344	I couldn't exactly tell which member it was, is it 101, 102 because of this situation because of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16345	Say, "The former 100, and then we'll see when we get the Rules of Procedure." I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16346	A terrible lie was made here from the pay phone -- that the SRS would influence and create what kind of human policy would be in the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia. I must say that there are no members of the SRS in the High Council of Justice, there are no members of the SRS at the Department of Justice. I must state that only against members of the SRS are still being prosecuted. It would be ugly, because it would ruin the principle, and I want to discuss it in principle, to make a personal example or example of some people from the SRS, who are in this room, which are the subject of interest, and that of official interest, against them and criminal proceedings, not only in Belgrade, but also in other places, from the period when they performed state functions. Here, for four or five years these proceedings are in the stage of an investigation, or you file criminal charges as a means of pressure. According to the one whose mouth came out of that false claim, now I see what that tactics is. It's a tactics -- you've been in power for 15 years, yes, for 15 years we've been in power, and while we've been in power, our people, our MPs, the party president, went to prison, and Gjilan, and here several times in Belgrade. They, as representatives of the government, are imprisoned and held in prison, all as representatives of the government, directed by the mental vision of the yellow Democratic Party. Let me tell you from the Democratic Party. It's just that a man can't make a mistake when he votes, just let him vote the opposite of what you vote for, and he won't make a mistake. Now, it's pretty wrong for you, because the government doesn't choose prosecutors anymore. You were talking about independence and independence, but then that Batic of yours, lustrated, in every way possible, wanted to implement the Sabre, to wave that saber wherever he arrived. He's been missing through the judiciary, and we really have a bad situation about our judiciary. But maybe it's not good for us to make as much of it as it is because of those people who appear in court with lawsuits, complaints and expect justice. I guess it's clear to everyone -- the Democratic Party's policy is destruction. The fact that you're arguing with each other in 2001, the way you've been trading, the law, that's your thing, your problem. The Serbian Radical Party did not keep you company, because we now believe that all these laws in the area of justice are deeply contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Arrange who has done more damage to the Serbian judiciary. Don't forget the Batic, don't forget the sabers, don't forget what you did, but don't just lie that the Serbian Radical Party determines who will be the judge, the president of the court or the prosecutor. It's such an orthodox lie that no one will ever believe anything you say again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16347	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16348	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of a synogram of the National Assembly session for today, on 24 June 2005, recorded between 13.55 and 14.05 hours, I point out the violation of the text of Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has not yet been confirmed at the session of the Legislative Committee, but it is assumed that both the member and the text of Article 143, which has been amended on the basis of amendments to the Rules of Procedure, will remain in the same text, and if it does not remain, we will have another kind of problem. So, Article 143(2) has been injured because Minister Slobodan Vuksanovic said at the time - "Thank you for giving me your word both for the MPs and for the public, I just wanted to let you know about the agreement reached by the President of the Assembly and I on behalf of the Government". This isn't a business mistake, but it's a mistake and it's a serious mistake, whoever knows the rules of procedure and the congregations. So, "the President of the Assembly and I, on behalf of the Government, on the immediate and temporary withdrawal from the agenda of the Higher Education Law, for reasons of respecting the MPs of all parties who have submitted a large number of amendments, an unusually large number of amendments, and our wish is to put as many or almost all amendments as possible. To achieve this, we need a few days, a certain time, because the law on higher education is neither a party nor a political issue, it is an academic issue." Article 143(2), so the new position in the Rules of Procedure, says "The National Assembly, on the reasoned proposal of the Proposer", in this first row of Article 143, it is not specified whether it is written or oral reasoning. I didn't bother you reading the stenograms till the end. The minister tried to explain how the president of the assembly and he agreed on behalf of the government. So, he can decide to withdraw a certain point from the agenda of the session, which the minister has said, which is in progress, until the start of the search of that point at the National Assembly session, provided that the sittings are attended by at least 126 MPs. So, this attitude has been broken. In an attempt to verify the data before I make any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because I consider it a very serious violation of the procedure of every violation of the Rules of Procedure, I received an internal notice, and then consult a stenogram, and officially by the President of the Assembly, that they interpret this as a withdrawal from the procedure, which is a confirmation that this member of the Rules of Procedure has been violated. So either the president had to schedule a voting day or had to warn the minister, if he had not already learned the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly before entering this hall and addressed us to the MPs and took the word, he had to be warned, or he had to act strictly under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I do not expect, of course, that the result will be anything other than the vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but the stenogram for the sake of and respect of the procedure, I am obliged to point out this violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 143, in this way. A mistake that is further made, that this is treated as a withdrawal from the procedure, is contrary to the constitutional explanation given by the minister, because he claims that he needs a certain time, a few days, a short period of time needed by our assembly board and the people of the ministry to get the amendments into the text of the law. PRESIDENT (Predrag Markovic): Excuse me, pay attention on time, since it has been one and a half minutes, and as you do, I hold every violation of the Rules of Procedure with a strict injury, so please keep an eye on it. One and a half minutes ago, you were supposed to be done. Please bring your presentation to an end, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. My apologies. So this is because it was not in time that the Legislative Committee came up with a consolidated text and now we have a problem with following, to see if the amendment was accepted on the matter of reducing the infringement of the Rules of Procedure from five to three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16350	I'm sorry, Mrs. Comic, the Legislative Committee won't be able to plead in this session. It's been three minutes before, and it hasn't changed at all. It's three minutes under the Rules of Procedure. It's five minutes after the amendment. It's probably a lapus. Be nice and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16351	The line to the replica is three minutes. I did not ask for a replica, but for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the Legislative Committee is obliged to vote at its session on the adoption of the consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The sooner he does it, the better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16352	Thank you. So once again I confirm, nothing has changed in this new Rules of Procedure or in the previous, and in the one before that, and in the one before that, and in the Rules of Procedure and in the line, there have been three minutes. Unfortunately, I wasn't following. I'm obliged to give an explanation, since I see that it has caused a confusion of the fact that the minister has given notice here. She has now read Mrs. Comic's stenogram copy, in which there is no score, and it is the impression that as president and minister on behalf of the government -- not, but the president and minister, on behalf of the government, because the minister is on behalf of the government, as is now Mr. Stojkovic. He's here on behalf of the promoter and has informed the Assembly of his withdrawal. If he suggested anything to the Assembly, verbally or in writing, according to the new Rules of Procedure, it could cause confusion, and you're right, because we still don't have a consolidated text. According to the new Rules of Procedure, the Assembly would have to make a statement, but in no way did he do so. He just informed about the deal, and that there wouldn't be any problem, because using the word "colliberal", you're right, is not explained in detail. There's no detailed explanation of the use of legal terms, and you're absolutely right about that. But, in order to avoid confusion, I once again informed the Assembly that it would be determined that the motionor had withdrawn from the procedure. Now, since it is very important that we do everything according to the Rules of Procedure and the Law, I once again ask - here on behalf of the promoter Mr Stojkovic, who also attended these agreements, so the Government is withdrawing, according to the Rules of Procedure, from the procedure. Thank you. You can consult another stenogram, we can repeat it ten times, but we're reasonable people and we know what the proposal is, and what the notice is. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Markovic, and then the replica of Mrs. Komic. Mr. Markovic, are you looking for a word from the Rules of Procedure? I'm sorry, I switched, I didn't know. Here you go, and then we'll take the order. Mr. Angelkovic led the session and will continue to lead, so he will know the exact order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16353	Mr. Markovic, for all of you, you just didn't want to replace me for two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16354	Mr. Angelkovic, that's for what you turned off my microphone a month ago, so we're on the same page. I answered the question because it didn't work out, Mr. President of the Assembly kind of replicated me a little while ago, when I said that the explanation for the emergency procedure in this material was not given, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I immediately said that I wasn't looking for an explanation, I'm not asking for anything. In order to avoid confusion, it clearly states here that it is in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, an emergency procedure, and then I said that there was no respect for the provision of Article 157, and only so much I wanted to show you, nothing more. I thought it was your fault and that in the future you should take care of the urgent procedure. I know what happened afterwards, but I'm telling you this is material. I'm just saying it says "emergency procedure" here, and it's indisputable with this back. No more than that, I didn't ask you to think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16355	The word has Mr. Markovic, Rules of Procedure, replica, to finish...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16356	Please, don't be afraid that Mr Milan Markovic is wrong, I warn everyone, take care of the MPs, please don't hide the documentation from Mr Markovic, he needs to be informed. Give him time, the ministry pulled an emergency procedure two months ago, he should have been informed about it. The whole service works, multiplys, spends money on this notice and ultimately does not give Mr. Markovic. Please, give it to him in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16357	Easy, let's see if there's anyone else in the Rules of Procedure first. Mr. Ristic, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The Rules of Procedure must first, then the replica. There's always been, first the Rules of Procedure, then the replica. That's familiar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16358	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a new member of 143, as Minister Vuksanovic withdrew the bill's agenda, and for which there was to be a condition that there were 126 MPs in the hall. This means that the chairman, at that moment, had to determine the quorum of 126 MPs, and what was not done. So there's a broken procedure. It is impossible now for the minister of justice to declare on behalf of the government afterwards on the statement by Minister Vuksanovic that it is clarifying and changing its legal fact. It is impossible now to declare a bill that is no longer in the process. The president of the assembly, Mr Markovic, again violated the Rules of Procedure, in order to deceive Serbian lawmakers and the public about the failure he, as chairman, made at that time. I cannot understand that the minister of justice can make a statement that has a certain legal fact in the procedure of this assembly, and something that his colleague Vuksanovic has already declared. On the other hand, the minister of justice is not an authorised representative to represent the government's proposal for higher education. All of these are the failures I point to, and I demand that the Assembly declare these failures. I would also like to add that the President of the Assembly, Mr Markovic, has again deceived the Assembly and the public regarding the material relating to the set of the law on justice. The material the MPs received states that an emergency procedure has been proposed, although no adequate explanation has been given. Whether it is an emergency procedure or not, we point to one consequence, we point to the way the government conducts itself, which here completely ignores the participation of MPs in the debate, because it does not give an adequate explanation for its request to conduct a session by emergency procedure. There are some unbulful explanations here that don't even drink water. As far as the MPs are concerned, which was spoken of by President Markovic, I have a public criticism to make. As an MP, I pleaded that in electronic form, I would receive notices of all the activities of the Assembly, fill out the form and form and declare myself whether I would be in electronic form, whether I would be at the post office and the home address or here via the Parliament club, and I had not received any information in electronic form so far, and which only shows that the President of the Assembly is in public... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... praises how he improved his work, and essentially his obligation, and the explanations and the notifications are not...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16359	Mr. Ristic, time. All right, does anyone else have business? There isn't. Before the replica, just a second, Mr. Wolfie, if you don't mind, just to explain, I'd like to ask you to wait. I have to be honest, when it's adopted, I've talked about it on the Administrative Committee, and I've warned about a problem that can come when it comes to the withdrawal of the bill. However, I think that the Administrative Committee needs to be heard before the Assembly declares that the members who are injured today are injured, that it should try another interpretation of this member and take a stand. But I remember what it says in that 143th article. In position 1, the lawmaker, means the Government or the Minister, has the right to withdraw the bill's proposals from the procedure until the finalisation of the draft law at a session of the National Assembly. This means, when the proposal is withdrawn by the government or the minister, that, in that case, he, or the act proposed, the law, or the amendment, are no longer valid. Everything has to start over. Paragraph 2 reads - when the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Proposer, withdraws the proposal with 126 MPs, the basic law remains, and all amendments remain in the procedure, with it no longer on the agenda. So it's not at that session anymore, but when it's put on the next session, and the basic law, and all the amendments that have been submitted by then are valid. That's what it says in Rule 143 of the new Rules of Procedure, but I think it would be good, regardless of my interpretation, of the current chairman, and given that this is not my amendment, because if mine, like those tens, I would be absolutely sure of the interpretation, it would be good before this assembly also votes to the Administrative Board to give legal interpretation because of future actions like this, or to state its position on this article. I think that's the way to talk about it. I'm sorry, Mr. Wolfie, to you, but the procedure is such that we had to do the Rules of Procedure first. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16360	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were mentioned by Mr Markovic, Milan Markovic, I am no longer able to remember everything he said until the end, but I managed to remember one thing, because it was an important and difficult accusation, and that is how we do humanization in the Serbian judiciary, along with others. It's just, it's a notorious lie and I have nothing more to add, everything else is on Mr. Markovic's soul. I came out to inform you that the UN tribunal has again unlawfully ruled against any contact with the outside world to SRS President Vojislav Seselj. That's the decision they made today. Based on which, how, no one knows, I told you this because we managed to get that information from within, so from those who know exactly what's going on in The Hague. Obviously, and I came out primarily because of Serbian citizens, to be led by a wide-ranging organised action against the SRS, and now I will read to the Serbian citizens that you see, the respected citizens of Serbia and you dear MPs, to hear what the request of this bandit lobby is based on, the lobby of seven NGOs, and especially at the head of the humanitarian law fund of the bandit Natasa Kandic, which is based on their request to launch some kind of pre-crisis procedure. They didn't even learn what sound equation is, so they don't know that D in front of K is changing into T, but I guess it's going to be described. He'll have plenty of time in prison to learn how to do it. Among other things, he says, imagine, that almost all the institutions of Serbia, and what VBA is, i.e. The military-security agency reportedly found it does not possess documents that burden or link Nikolic with war crimes, he said, once again points to the practice of concealing and denying crimes committed by Serb forces in armed conflicts. Evidence of this, he says, "In addition to this, the fact that Serbia's state summit has been hiding documents for 10 years on the participation of Serbia's MUP in the massacre of Srebrenica Bosniaks." What does that have to do with Tom Nikolic and anyone, nobody knows alive. Crazy woman completely. Just for the radiator to tie her up, I don't know what else to tell you. Listen further, so you don't get used to significantly reduced accountability, then you quote him from some interviews before and say, "This is shown in the war, on the principles of Chettice and it has arisen. When the war was over, when the Chetniks returned to Serbia, we officially announced that the SCP had been disbanded. We don't care about bar-reading. "That's another proof. Whoever is telling the truth, Tomislav Nikolic, who, says, has "exacted his war effort even from a Serbian Parliament speaker or Tomislav Nikolic, who now claims that he did not fire a bullet by chance". Can someone explain something to me in this? Listen to the key claim: "Nothing less is important to determine when he was really at the battlefield, because his statement and a statement by Alexander Vukic differ, one said on December 5th, the other said December 6th." A big difference, and November 3rd and 4th were the last murders. That's a very significant difference. Then he says, "The suspicion that Tomislav Nikolic participated in the killings of civilians in Antin has been presented by MP of the National Assembly of Serbia (imaginate which), Zarko Korac, saying in a statement to RFE that the data on what happened in Antin will be found these weeks (go Zarko to dig), as well as the head of the Bureau of Communications in the government of late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, Beba Popovic, in addition to "Insider" TV B-92. These are, my dear friends and respected citizens of Serbia, evidence. See what the psychopaths of Serbia are able to do. Look what a crazy lobby in Serbia is capable of. (President: Time) Mr. Angelkovic, I'm done. I know this has been very interesting to you since you've heard a lot of evidence. (President: That's why I let you go for a minute and a half more). Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. This Vojislav Seselj thing isn't random either. I just want to thank all the citizens for the very big and broad support they give us, to know that their media pressures, their lies, forgeries and deceptions we didn't fear, that we were going to fight these lunatics, that we were going to beat them and not worry about anything, we're going to save Serbia from these qualities and those who are trying to destroy Serbia. Serbia deserves much more, Serbia deserves much better, and those who do this in this way, those who read the newspaper, pass it on to them, and that's their main source, don't know what, or know how to name anyone, not when, or anywhere else, they belong somewhere near the radiator, but I'm afraid we'll spend the radiator for free. In any case, the competent state authorities will have to find a solution, and you, citizens of Serbia, will have to wait a little longer. These are the last occupation breaths, this is the end of them. Enough of their torture and abuse of the people of Serbia. Freedom for all of us is coming to Serbia soon, and for you, Mr. Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16361	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic, and then MP Gordana Komic to be presented to the speaker of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16362	Mr. Angelkovic, before I begin to replicate the current absence of Milan Markovic from the DS, let me tell you that there is no logic in this Rules of Procedure. It is that it is so strictly written now in the new member and in the previous one, but if you stick to the fact that the MP gets the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, you will bring in whoever is called and who should replicate, as is the case now that, after half an hour, I get that opportunity, in one situation that hypothetically he can do so even after a few hours. Because if 100 MPs apply for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's pointless. I wanted to demonstrate at the moment when I was replicating Mr. Milan Markovic was in the O.R., that from this place where Mr. Cvetkovic is now sitting he could extend two metres in advance and insert other people's cards into the identification unit, which he did during the DS and DOS in power, together with then Deputy Foreign Minister Aleksandra Joksimovic. He told me when he said it was very funny. I think it's pathetic and it's devastating that at all again in some assembly benches, and he, you see, is the vice president of the assembly, can sit such an MP. The one who said to himself this morning that he was a lawyer and legalist, the one who stretched two metres to insert someone else's card, to register it and vote for the various laws that DOS was making, the same MP who supported all decisions by then-President Natasa Micic. This same one, which is in a circuit with this unfortunate woman and this bastard Natasa Kandic, her namemaker, and I am here to defend my light and the name of all Natashas, in such a way as to tell you that Mr Tomislav Nikolic, in the context of this attack against him and against the SRS, is one of the most frequent citizens not only of Serbia, but of Kragujevac. We Kragujevcans know who Mr Nikolic, one of the founders of the SRS, is the man who marked the history of the newer Serbian parliamentarianism, as he has since the first called out an MP in the Assembly. Certainly an example of reputation, both as a father, and as a husband, and as a host. What you may not know, but with a set of circumstances, it is such that it is garbage and this unfortunate woman, the scum that exists today and who can report anywhere and say anything, Natasa Kandic, originating in Kragujevac. We honest Kragujevci, and that's where I count the representatives of the entire people who live there, who live very hard today, because he's miserable, who's poor, who doesn't have a job, such garbage as she is, we don't even throw in a croissant container, in which many are looking for a way to eat.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16363	When it comes to the Rules of Procedure, it is mine to apply the existing Rules of Procedure. In these changes, I have contributed to the amendments to correct some proposals that are not good. I would like to thank the congregation and the promoter for accepting them. I know that the best Rules of Procedure was when I was head of the Parliament Club and we had a parliamentary majority. That's when the replica behind the line could go right away. So, I remember, one month we were replicating each other, but new times, new rules. And those new rules in the new time need to be respected. According to the new rule, the word is made by MP Gordana Komic, a replica of the speaker of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16364	The president of the National Assembly, in an attempt to explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 143, which I pointed out, told me that he did not understand what had happened, because there were no marks and no points in the stenogram of the Assembly, so that he could explain it to me. So, I read the stenogram for 13.45-13.55 today; "Freedan Vuksanovic: Thank you for giving me the word both for the MPs and for the public (point), I just wanted to inform you about the agreement that we have reached, (on request of MPs, and on behalf of tolerance), the President of the Parliament and I on behalf of the Government on the immediate and temporary withdrawal from the agenda of the Law on Higher Education for the reasons of respecting the MPs of all parties who have submitted a large number of amendments (point), an unusually large number of amendments (point), and we would like to put as much or as possible all amendments to be classified and to be able to achieve (point), we need a few days (point), a certain time (tolled), (in the name of tolerance, and it would be good to apply, in the name of tolerance, a speech belonging to this Assembly) because the Law on High Education is not a political issue (point). "So, apart from the fact that the President of the Assembly is very difficult to bear personally when he has an obvious mistake and what he should try not to see so much at least, he does not know that the stenogram is done with the commas, the interpretation of the Serbian language and the spelling that implies text typing, as he does not know that he has also violated the 27th consolidated text of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which has not yet passed the session of the Legislative Committee. In its first position, Article 27 defines what the President of the Assembly is doing and, in addition to doing the tasks provided for in the Constitution, broken several times, chaired the National Assembly meetings, he did not violate it, took care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, which is violated today, taking care of the timely and coordinated work of the working bodies of the National Assembly, broken. National MP Milan Markovic pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure. People’s MPs received material for the National Assembly in which they wrote an emergency procedure. The fact that the President of the National Assembly does not have, or is not interested in harmonising the work of the Assembly's service and that the consolidated text of the bill referred to the MPs is the problem of the National Assembly president and his service, from the secretary, who is the most responsible and only responsible, but to him, not to us, to all those who have allowed untimely delivered solutions to the MPs, or the Government's decision to withdraw the emergency procedure. One more thing, I was interrupted by the chairman, and I quoted the stenogram, so I have the right to three minutes of clear reasoning and additional time to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure or, in this case, I was forced to quote a stenogram, so three minutes of pure speech and more time to quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16365	I think I've made it up to you for 55 seconds that Mr. Markovic took away from you, and otherwise when it comes to commas and dots, where Mr. Vuksanovic wanted to put the dots and the marks, I really don't know, it has to be when he does the authorization to see, and this service has put the dots and the marks, so we're going to ask Vuksanovic where he wanted the point and where the point is. Mr. Markovic wants to do business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16366	I just want to say a few things. First, about the presentation of the President of Predrag Markovic Assembly. That was very funny, and we all laughed about it. There's no need for him to try to make a situation right now so that the little ones around here don't know what we've got. I know exactly what I got. The material says an emergency procedure. I don't argue that another material has arrived afterwards that we've been informed that an emergency procedure has been withdrawn. I draw attention to the President of the Assembly that they are not in agreement with the first page of this material and the last one with Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, and that's all I wanted to say, and I said nicely, I'm not looking for an explanation. There was no need to make a comedy about it and make fun of me the president of the assembly or anyone else. So it's about that. My dear colleague Natasha, I would like to say, since she was an MP, or an MP at the time I was myself, the contentious photograph was created in 2001, or I think it was then, I can't remember. I was sitting right behind Mr. Cvetkovic. Mr. Cvetkovic doesn't have a voting unit in his seat. A colleague to Mr Cvetkovic, or place to Mr Cvetkovic, does not have a voting unit. The seat ahead, where the lady from the professional service sits, has no voting unit and the place next to the respected professor Simonovic has no voting unit. There was an important vote at the time. When we sit down voting units we used these out front and that was the only reason we voted like that. It is the result of working in this assembly, where the truth is 250 seats, but when ministers come, you know what the atmosphere looks like, very often the MP sits in places where there is no voting unit, and then he has to really stretch out and vote in that way. What I want to tell you is that and you know it, no one has ever slowed that vote. That photo was used, but you know that no one has ever disputed that I voted exclusively, thank you for that, with my MP card and I hope you didn't want to do it this time either. That would be all about this report from the Rules of Procedure's injury. I don't want to keep time, hoping we'll start discussing what the agenda points are, and that's a set of judicial laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16367	Mr. Markovic, or colleague Markovic, as you prefer, is better from the second order than from Bodrum, so as far as I'm concerned, it's forgiven. National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16368	Mr. Markovic, when you've been trying to prove to us all day that you're being so honest, that you're defending someone in court, God forbid you're defending someone, I see to defend them, then you should have prevented those who later were uncontested by the court, or you raised an indictment against them, in connection with the election of governors and the other thefts of votes in the assembly. As it happened in one cartoon, you're not Pera, but you're Milan, you go to the police in time to report it and say, "I've got thieves sitting around me, "honest people doing it to forge people's will." I don't understand how now five years of post-festum, you think everything's forgotten, nobody's anything. Now let me remind you of something else. At the seat where Mr. Kojcic was sitting, he was sitting in Mile of the Korean. He came in one day and said, "Hey, where are you, what are you doing, sitting for a while, an uninvited man, you don't know how you were, voting for one twenty, thirty laws and then told him, "Miles, go home." Was that the Assembly? No, please, Mr. Markovic. You today, imagine what you said, wanted to lute the minister, and then some others you didn't like, so you said that the SRS was involved in staffing the election of judicial officials. I'll finish with that, just to remind you, during the time you were in power and your DS harals with Serbia, the man who was V.D. The director of some failed tire factory around Surdulica or Vladica Han, you appointed him judge. After a while, you appointed him the same judge. And you had an attempt, so under the pressure of the public and board members, you gave up putting a man who tied his own wife to a radiator in Branič County. So, I don't know what you're talking about or how you're allowed to come out anymore and say something in favor of where you're honest and that you've done everything legally and properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16369	Now it's time to go back. It's not time to go back on time. Mr. Ristic, I realized it's not time to get back on the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, probably.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16370	The Honorable Chairman, it was a 100 before, now I don't know how.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16371	It's 104 now, but you act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and these are changes. So, by Article 100, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16372	Since changes and consolidated text have not yet been respected, we are merely referring to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which define the breach of procedure. In the previous period, the DS was dominant in the exercise of power and had the greatest influence in both parliament and government, but it is definitely true that the DS has led this country on the right path to European integration and has hit the foundations of European Serbia. It's funny to someone, like the funny ones and these crimes that have been smiling and spoken over the past period during the debate, but in order to get back to serious things, I have to say that DS did not staff the judiciary in the way you showed it, but every DS MP pointed to the functioning of the judiciary and clearly and loudly stood behind every proposal that was meaningful and to the benefit of Serbia's citizens. Let me remind you that this debate in replicas has begun. Mr Markovic mentioned that the SRS has also affected the staffing in agreement with the minister of justice and now during the work of this current government. You denied it, but I'll remind you, your votes were chosen by the President of the Supreme Court, Mrs. Vida Shkero, who you so vehemently challenged. And your president from The Hague also challenged Vida Skero on several occasions in earlier proposals in this assembly while he was an MP and sitting next to Miss Jovanovic. He challenged Vida Shkero and her choice, and you now took advantage of his absence and voted for Mrs. Vida Shkero as Supreme Court President. Mr. Markovic pointed out that and I don't see what's wrong with that. Look at the stenographic notes, you'll see how you voted, those who follow this Parliament's work know exactly your position in relation to the judiciary, and by defining the candidate for the Supreme Court president, you've also characterized the entire judiciary. So, you've agreed with all the solutions offered by the government and the minister of justice, and that's probably so logical and clear. Therefore, Mr Markovic presented one fact, truthfully and in line with your behaviour during the previous period of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16373	I've seen everything. It's okay. On 19 May, the government of the Republic of Serbia sent an emergency letter to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw the emergency procedure to six laws on which it is concerned, and already on 20 May, there is an act here, to all MPs, that act of the Government of Serbia was delivered, meaning that an emergency procedure should be removed from these laws, so that, please, it is a request from the secretary of the professional service, that it should not be that the professional service failed and that it did not deliver to the MPs. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Krasic, we will see if anyone else has, and the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16374	According to the Rules of Procedure, of course, the same member I called for the previous time, Article 100, and my predecessor was also invited to do so, although he did not explain what the injuries of the Rules of Procedure were being viewed, where he claims to have been done by Natasa Jovanovic, since she went on the line. It's all going through with us. I point to the continuity of the violations of the Rules of Procedure by the DS, once done by Bosko Ristic, next time Milan Markovic, and after me will probably do it again. The starting point of my apparition at the violation of the Rules of Procedure, when I was just behind this speaker, was that the MP said that the SRS was humanising in the Serbian judiciary, so I tried to point out the general facts about the continuity of the persecution of the SRS, the continuity of the persecution of the people most seen in the SRS and the fact that there are and that there are criminal proceedings against both members and MPs. I pointed out the fact, look at all the minutes from the National Assembly, when the SRS voted in favour of some of the bills on the judiciary, when the SRS voted in favour of the proposal of the High Council of Justice, how much we challenged, some of them accepted, and some did not. They draw the whole story of SRS personnel at one vote, they make an exception rule and it's simply DS manners. They support everything, and government, so when they disagree with the government, then they say they're some opposition. They are calling for votes for their presidential candidate, and when selecting "Pick the dots, it's not valid". It's such an DS, it's such a structure of personality, understanding, it's a problem of one value in society. Of course, if, at the meeting of the Justice Committee, the representatives of the DS on that committee in challenging a candidate go so far as to ask the question, did the candidate possibly pass the judicial exam, so ask these same people the question, and well, how did you choose in your day, so you chose a pensioner for the President of the Court, like the one for the District Court in Nis, so you heard this example of your great staff, and the women tied to the radiators, so your powerful experts who don't know how to wipe their noses, who destroyed the Serbian judiciary. You can't see that, you can't see that, but the D.S.'s way of getting out of here or any media just throws one lie, spits something out, and then everyone has to justify themselves. I have no intention of justifying myself to the DS, you and democracy have nothing but ties in name and nothing else, although that question may be a spelling error. You voted from Bodrum, from Thessaloniki, falsified here, I chased you around these benches to take out your cards when you wanted to forge because of your yellow Pitiæ, remember? We have trouble with you, do you understand, because you have a big lobby that supports you. The DS and its forces are located in NGOs and foreign-funded media. It's media like that Grujic Spasovic, so when you sue him for slander, then whine for two years, and bravely on his list to bring up everything and everything. Serbia is to celebrate, Popov got a verdict against that Peter Lukovic, you know, knife-wire-silver, white-world liar, that's our problem. We valuable time rather than devote ourselves to Serbia's development, we must defend ourselves against false accusations, because of every antidote that recalls to spit on Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16375	Replica, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16376	I replicate to Mr. Ristic, who has abused the Rules of Procedure to report for my discussion with nothing challenged and called, but now that you have already called yourself, Mr. Ristic, then let me remind you, as your colleague Markovic, as then one of the ringleaders of lawlessness at the time of the DS, what you did. I must remind you, Mr. Ristic, that the judiciary is its largest collapse, and that was during the DOS, during Batic's ministry, when you were all just his concubines, you who were your attorneys, experts, and you tried to court him at board meetings and when some law in the area of justice or the choice of legal holders was on the agenda. I must remind you that you are responsible, just like everyone in the DS, which after October 5th, that is, those days, and according to Mrs. Aregina's testimony, and based on what she did through the horrors she suffered in her book, she entered the Trade Court, the former Court of Commerce, and led by Goran Kljajevic. He didn't come there alone, he came with those who were very close to the leaders of the DS, accompanied by the Chumet and members of the Zemun clan. Since you know all this, and you know that you are the failed president of the commission who tried to write the constitution of Serbia, and from that there were only paths from Milocer to St. Stefan, then it is pointless for you to tell us about the Rules of Procedure. There has never been an SRS involved in the selection of any member, no judicial function holder in Serbia, nor when we were in power, never after that, nor we were interested in it, nor will we be in the future, because our position is, and for that we will fight for it. And you said, when Professor Vojislav Seselj sat in her seat; no, it's not, but on this side; and he'll sit down again, God will give it to you soon, but then you won't be in this assembly, and DS on the entire 2 to 3 percent, until you fall with such a policy of deception and lies that you and your President Boris Tadic have led.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16377	Thank you. Mr. Milan Markovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16378	This is a replica of Mr Krasic's exposure. So, below every level is what you just said. So, what you think we have is a mental circuit that is dangerous or harmful, or insane, thank you for that. Mr Krasic, one thing is certain, we from the Democratic Party have a diametrically opposite mental set of Serbian radicals, and we are proud of that. And whether he's like this or not, I don't think you're competent to judge, and I'm not even going to do an evaluation of that. As far as this lobby, which allegedly stands behind our party, the lobby is big -- it's 1,700,000 people who voted for Boris Tadic, for the president of the Republic. That could hurt you. That's funny to you. I don't think it's funny for you to bring out information about how many votes you have. I appreciate the citizens of Serbia, you're laughing at the citizens of Serbia, and that looks like you. So if that's the big lobby you're talking about, we're happy and we expect that lobby to be even bigger. I would ask you to really refrain from such serious insults as you just stated at the expense of the Democratic Party. Of course, what we can talk about here is the effects of the policy that you have and the effects of the policy that we have, or rather say, the policy effects that you stand for and which you are willing to support. I think this patriotic policy-making way, this strange patriotism that you've been exhibiting for the past 15 years, has given some effect, but I think that effect is very harmful. When a Serbian Radical Party MP said earlier, concerned about the fate of the Serbian people, as Serbia has fallen, has fallen to its knees, you should know that this is the result of your policy and your thinking and the way you conduct politics. We weren't involved in this. We participated in those two years when Serbia rose as much as it did, and as much as it went towards a better and healthy life. Unfortunately, Serbia was interrupted by those shots when President Zoran Djindjic was killed. Of course, there is still hope for Serbia and that hope is the 1,700,000 people who voted for President Boris Tadic; that hope is the Democratic Party, and we will do everything we can to bring together other political parties in this parliament, and parties outside this parliament, and to continue again a policy that was ruling from October 2000 to 2003.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16379	I thank Mr. Markovic. Replica has a National MP, Alexander Vukic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16380	I was hoping that Mr. Markovic would end his circulation for the 50th time about nothing, but I was forced to answer him. What are we to blame, Mr. Markovic? To Krajina? They were in jail. For Srebrenica? They were both in prison and Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic. That's the time, Mr. Markovic, when you made ox at the Palace, so you gave up your biggest friends, Radovan Karadzic and others, the first time they burned to their fingernails, so together with power, you started calling them gamblers, bastards, and I don't know how. That's the time you burned the American flag in front of the American reading room, and today you worship over the American flag. Mr. Markovicu, unlike you, we always had one flag, the flag of the Serbian state: a red-blue-white banner, we always wore that flag if necessary, in any way, and each time respected it. As for that - the diametric opposite, it is pleonasm, by the way, to learn it. As for the policy that is responsible and wonderful two years in which you ruled, are these the two years in which Chume became Serbia's first man? Is that the two years you've been doing what you wanted against political opponents and here in parliament told us an unprecedented maximum, I'd say, which will remain registered for all time, which is - the opposition can't bring down the government, because the opposition didn't even choose? As for the number of voters, I don't mind, you have a large number of voters, it's all 7,000, it's 5,000, it's nothing to underestimate. Every vote is of great importance, we highly respect every voter in Serbia, anyone who voted for both the Democratic Party and any other political party. Do not forget that the 1,700,000 you spoke of were given by asking Minister Stojkovic to vote for you, Palalić to vote for you, Kojčić, Miku Vlaovic and everyone else to vote for you. As you can see, Mike was the only one who wouldn't listen to you. So the free was both your requests and your efforts. In the G17, everyone voted for you. Here, says Branka Bosnjak, with her head and chin, confirms. Never again in life, like those from the SPI and other political parties. They all voted for you to get it. All those who voted, regretting it today. They regret it bitterly and would like it to happen again, to change their mind and change their decision. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today we have something more serious than that. Today we have an attempt on Serbia's part to be accused, to have Serbia thrown on its knees completely, to have Serbia declared an aggressor country. I expect soon from these bandit groups, led by Natasa Kandic, to accuse Serbia of throwing the bombs herself at the train in Grdelička Klisura, that Serbia killed Milic Rakic, that Serbia killed little Sanja in Varvarin, that Serbia was killing Serbs in Klecka, Stari Grack, that Serbia was killing Serbs in Bratunc, Sarajevo, Karlovac, Gospić and elsewhere in the former Yugoslavia's premises. That's what we're facing today, and that's what you know is happening. But that bandit lobby counted on its insolence, its impudence, its media manipulations, to scare people in Serbia, to make them do so that no one can tell them anything. As you can see, dare, no trouble at all. These followers of Beria and Visinski, who are asking citizens to prove their innocence and not to prove themselves guilty, will have to answer in front of justice. But Serbia is in a hurry and it is only in one thing, which is to get justice and justice, that those who took, on behalf of the state of Serbia, the ficus of 40,000 dinars and coffeespoons of 650 dinars should finally be behind bars. Like those who falsely accused, who spread false news and said yes, to God, some people are responsible for the murders committed, and the murders were committed and the evidence is such: said Zarko Korac, Vladimir Popovic on TV B92. We've seen and listened to these kinds of insolences. The time has come to finally go to justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16381	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16382	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. It is no accident that the ban on Vojislav Seselj to communicate with the outside world has arrived today, trying at all costs and in any way to do what they want against the Serbian Radical Party, and I must, since it is afternoon, so more people are watching, Mr Angelkovic, to tell the citizens of Serbia what kind of lies we have today in our country, in our media. These are the followers of Beria and Visinski. You can say Adolf Hitler and his Agitprop, it doesn't matter. They said the Croatian delegation complained about Tomislav Nikolic because he was suspected of murder. Notorious lie. The Croatian delegation did not say it was suspected of murder, but said it was spoken in Belgrade media, directly citing B92 television. We will bring you this document and present it here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Respected Serbian citizens, dear MPs, to see who we are dealing with today, how powerful and powerful the bandit lobby led by Natasa Kandic. But, as you know, fighting banditism is always hard, always serious, you always have to commit yourself to it, we'll do it. No matter how difficult it may be for us, especially because they, who so brutally accuse by counterfeits and lies, have children, and grandchildren, and their families. We will do it for the sake of Serbia's good, and the bandits, like everywhere in the world, will have to end up behind bars, and I would like to announce to you in advance the longer official route of Natasha Kandic in Kinsas and congratulate Serbia on that. That, I believe, is fair, if you do not interfere to defend the head of the bandits in Serbia, Natasa Kandic, she will have to go on a longer trip to Kinsas by the end of the year. Good luck to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16383	The word is made by MP Milan Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16384	I'll try to be brief. First of all, the one thing that's been heard here many times is about the supposed voices that we've been praying for, God forbid, for someone. I don't think anyone has the votes of the citizens that way anymore, so neither Minister Stojkovic, nor you, nor we, will vote to each other as if they were marbles, etc. Serbian citizens are responsible people, they can assess. There were elections, first round, second round of choices, and they decided who they'd support. I don't think anyone can have that effect on their voters and say, vote for this side or that side, and that's why I think it's empty stories. There is no need to challenge someone's victory or to defend someone's defeat, simply to reduce the importance of someone's victory. We had elections that were democratic, legal, legitimate. We've reached the President of the Republic. I really think that we have received the President of the Republic for the pride and honor of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that is why we should take care when we talk about the institution of the President of the Republic. I repeat, for the Democratic Party, citizens have their own consciousness, their knowledge, our responsibility, and we will never agree to such communication, which will manipulate their voices, which was a manipulative in some previous period during the 1990s, but I hope that time is behind us. Secondly, the work of the President of the Republic will be evaluated by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I don't share your opinion that citizens are disappointed with the work of the President of the Republic. And those who had a certain skepticism in the election of the President of the Republic, I think they no longer have it and that the work of the President of the Republic deserves a good, positive assessment. I think it is the President of the Republic that in this case, despite not being the holder of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, it is nevertheless the most dragging this Serbia forward and the most pulling this Serbia towards European flows. In addition, the President of the Republic, as well as the Democratic Party, strive to have normal relations in political life and normal collegiate relations between political parties, because I repeat what we have said several times - when politicians argue people suffer. In the end, I wouldn't go into this part of the controversy, because I didn't understand this part of the exposure, and I don't think it applied to the Democratic Party. This problem that has been mentioned here all day, I have the impression that it has unwarrantedly taken too many places in today's work, so if you think that the Democratic Party should in any way give an answer to this other part of the questions you have asked, ask them explicitly and I will be ready to answer you, but all in the hope that we will end this relationship replica and continue to work on the points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16385	I thank you, Mr. Markovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Zoran Krasic, a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16386	I'm reporting for the previous presentation of an MP who spoke before me. It's that same member again. You can see for yourself how it is, if necessary, and by some estimate. When you get on the field fact, then you reternize, and then you talk about another system of values, we're very different, so on and so forth. But what's important is that Serbian citizens find an answer to the question of what's going on with the Democratic Party, what are their archeologists -- it can do this, it can only happen if there's any interest, whether it's economic, political or any other sphere. For that to be understood, the Democratic Party in a coalition with NGOs and independent and free media, which were created at the time of the biggest economic crisis and became the richest media, is on the same path, which is to decantise Serbia, that not every citizen of the Republic of Serbia should raise his voice, that he feels guilty. For what? It doesn't matter why. That's why it's said that someone should apologize for being on behalf of all of us. No one's in the name of all of us. They're covering something with their own story that's very dangerous. Here's an example: Milan Martic is being held in The Hague. Two counts say: because he bombed Zagreb with rocket systems "Orcan", and on rockets were cluster bombs, and this is a serious crime against humanity, and they even found violations of the laws and customs of war. During 1999, NATO dropped 23,000 missiles. It was also found to have been with the poored uranium and the tape bombs. The UN tribunal's special prosecutor's commission said -- there is no war crime because the tapestries are not banned by any international act, such as bombs with impoverished uranium. Here's a double standard. Where do you think the Democratic Party defined itself? She's identified herself as NATO. Let's not talk about any other things that happen in The Hague, and I can tell you about any class. If the Croats are to be released, then the witnesses have not performed a positive identification of the attackers. But if a Serb is to be convicted, then also a pigeon lover, who came to feed the pigeons in a village allegedly occupied by Serbs, saw in front of some house in Dusan Tadic, so he's probably responsible for some murders that took place. That's that double standard. That double standard should be swallowed here. It is the function of the Democratic Party, Natasha Kandic, Sonja Biserko, this Vojin Dimitrijevic, who walks here in the Assembly and all others, that the Serb must not lift his head, that he must confess and what he did not do, in order to sink and not be anywhere. Where's the Democratic Party's interest? The West will stretch them out to be in power as exclusive, no matter what trust. Therefore, once it is a good voice for Zoran Stojkovic for Boris Tadic, and the second time it is not good. It's the Democratic Party, everything can only be seized by the authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16387	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. What's going on in The Hague, I invite you to come to the 28th Republic Square, Vidovdan, at 4:00 a.m. The Socialist Party of Serbia is holding a rally on this, and you'll find out everything. The word is Mr. Kojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16388	I think we all fought in 1990 to have democratic Serbia, to have democratic institutions of government. As a result, yes, and now I speak very personally, I am pleased to have such a congregation. I can't say that all discussions aren't on one high-level civilization and democratic level. I also enjoy Mr. Krasic's discussions, and you must admit that Mr. Milan Markovic's discussions are also very classy. These are the different sexes of our political continent. However, since I have been called on the issue of voting, I will say where our problem is. It is not a problem who voted for who he voted for, whether he voted for Boris Tadic, Tomislav Nikolic, but the problem is that Serbia's current political situation is affected by those for whom no one voted. I have to at the end of my short one, but I think quite clearly enough to give you one reminder from history, as a teacher of life. If you'll excuse me, it may seem so highly trained, but that's how it is. Rome was great and had its large and important political institutions, where decisions were made on the most important issues of the Roman Empire. There were magnificent avenues, squares, agoras. However, the institutions of the authorities in Rome have simply begun to decline. It happened that political adventurers from different buds, from then on innkeepers, had begun to define what the state interests of the Roman Empire were. Rome fell apart, the barbarians entered, and Rome could not resist. Some traveller 50 years later describes Rome and says: Where there were magnificent avenues and squares, now mastered by donkeys. I think we must be responsible citizens of our country, our own patricians, and not let the donkeys of Serbian buddhak rule this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16389	I thank you, Mr. Koicic. There's a word, a replica, a People's MP, Alexander Vukic. No, Mr. Vukic has a line from before, not Mr. Kojcic. Here you go, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16390	Ladies and gentlemen, it's no big deal, you know, donkey is a noble animal. Don't insult a donkey, a man has a lot of use and you can samaras, you can take sides and set big ones, for those of you who know what it is, a man can play a significant role in a donkey. Some in Serbian society cannot be approached by usefulness. I don't mean anyone in this room, of course. So, I don't know what to answer about these voice thefts that Mr. Markovic mentioned. I'm proud that the SRS never took part in any voice theft, marifettes. That evening, Tomislav Nikolic called Boris Tadic, tomorrow morning, also on the phone and congratulated, regardless of what you all went against Tomislav Nikolic, all together. You didn't say it at the time, so it doesn't matter to you. Of course citizens aren't marbles, we used to say that. You said then, it's important that the democratic bloc, it's important that the DSS and others support it, and now I see you've changed your mind. I heard, we were just commended, and especially I got commendation on the radio of the followers of Berija and Visinski, which was B92, the absolutely most disgusting person commended me, saying that I was one of the most disgusting politicians, some Svetlana, can't last name her, but you all know she's the most disgusting. When the copper said it was absolutely the most disgusting, then you can imagine what it was like. Thank you for your compliments. I'm very happy about that. This kind of banditism, which spills the lobby of Natasa Kandic, those followers of Berija and Visinski, who try to say that what they say is true, all others who have received millions of votes are, about, crazy and fools, and only they are very smart, I must say that they can no longer pass in the Serbian people. It can't go into the Serbian people and yet for one thing, because it doesn't occur to us to agree to their heifers and harangs, because it doesn't occur to us to keep quiet and lie to them every day, to make up every day, to do what they want and what comes to mind every day. I know that both Barry and Vishinski are rolling over in the grave right now, and especially Barry, they're rolling over in the grave because he realized that some of them came worse than him. He realized that some have come to insist that someone's innocence be established, because it is understood that they are guilty in advance. It won't be possible in Serbia for long. I know that they think that they will rule forever, I know that they are powerful today, that they are managing today, these followers of Beriye and Visinski, I know that they are in Serbia today and that they can do whatever they want and what they want, and that they are accusing whoever they want, of threatening whoever they want, and of saying what they think of, without any professionalism or objectism. I'm also asking this advice on broadcasting, if that's what the Assembly has chosen, that they support the followers of Beri and Visinski, and let them do, so they will. We don't mind at all. It's better to do it even harder, to show even more seriously what they are and how much pain they are when someone told them in person. What they need to know is that there will be no more fear in Serbia of those who support Serbia's occupation, as we here can speak and in every place in the country to stand up to them and to tell them that there are plenty of your occupation lies, your counterfeits, your distortions of images of those you don't like. That's enough. Now you will be the most disgusting, you who humiliate and destroy Serbia every day, to hear what the citizens of Serbia think of you. Don't worry, you'll hear it every day. You repeat through your box of lies every day whatever you want, and we will tell the truth in the people both about you and everything else, too, every day. We'll see who the people trust more, and if for nothing else, and because the truth always has to win and because the facts have to be respected, and in the end, you don't stand a chance. That day, the bandit lobby, headed by Natasa Kandic, in two directions, one in Kinshas and one in the back, and it's not in Africa, where they imagined, but, you know, where Kinshasa is already...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16391	We weren't, Mr. Wolfie, in Kinshasa.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16392	You didn't go? You've traveled everywhere, Mr. Angelkovic, and you haven't been to Kinshas. I'm surprised you missed it. Don't race for Kinshasa, there's a place for Natasa Kandic, so you know, don't even ask, but don't worry, we're honest people from good houses. We'll make enough apples and bananas and oranges and everything else that she doesn't miss there, and the broad offer will be, it's only important that you don't interfere with the authorities and leave it to the judicial authorities to act in accordance with the law and comply with all the legal regulations and then there won't be any worries. So, respected citizens of Serbia, since we have established that today we will do much longer than the government has planned, since we have established that banditism must stand in the way, I am absolutely sure and fully convinced that we will soon be able to free Serbia from the occupational disciplines, that we will be able to free Serbia from the fierce pressure and ideas of Berija and Visinski, because Serbia deserves to lead the ideas of Slobodan Jovanovic, Laza M. Kostic, those who know how to respect and rights...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16393	Time, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16394	... and justice, and politics and righteousness, and not lies, thieving and crime, as it reigns today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16395	I thank you, Mr. Vukic, I hope you, too, on Vidovdan, at 4:00 p.m., will join the Republic Square in that tone against those who kidnapped, but let's finish the session. Mr. Markovic has a replica. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16396	Just the correction, nobody here mentioned stealing votes, don't God, I'm sure there was no theft, I'm just staying on that claim. We from the DS and our President Boris Tadic, when he ran in the elections, offered the programme, the citizens voted in favour of the programme. In the second round of elections, another part of the citizens who arrested in the first round, who voted for other candidates, also joined. We are grateful to the citizens who voted for the DS and we will try to justify these votes with our work. Something else got in my way, and that's why I called, Mr. Krasic's not here, unfortunately. Mr Krasic said something that not only does not stand, but is very dangerous to exist in Serbia's political life and in our mutual communication. Mr Krasic literally said the DS is on NATO's side. So, according to Mr Krasic, the DS is on NATO's side and has told Serbian citizens. It's an accusation that's very heavy. It's an accusation that could be judgment against some when they get out of this room. Mr. Krassic, please come out and take back what you said. There's another thing that we want to tell you, and the other thing is that it's not the point of going out for a pay phone and being a hero here in words, so now we list all the leaders of the European Union, the United States, so start in line, this psycho, this guy's a maniac, like this, and that guy's like that. If that's the way to prove our patriotism, we can do it, but we think it's irresponsible to the state. That's what our country, our politicians, suffer our citizens for. Politicians, in principle, never lack anything. There was nothing wrong with hearing all those words from RTS at the expense of those people who decided, pressing a finger on a button, where a bomb would fall, and many of our citizens, who, among other things, also numbered a colleague, Vukic. That's the fundamental responsibility of politicians. All 80% of Serbian citizens believe our place is the European Union. Well, we can't bring them into the EU if we don't know if we're giving epithets to those in whose society we want, I don't know what kind of hohstapplers, bastards and the like. Don't use our civilized attitude that way. Don't say such terrible things from the pay phone - that we are for NATO. I'm not even going to say what could be said from this pay phone, which, of course, is not true; you are, I don't know, now to invent for someone who has committed some kind of crime to the Serbian people. Far from the DS being for NATO, far from the DS condemning the aggression that has been committed. Mr. Wolf, I said that in 2000, same as an MP, on TV. Yes, it was aggression both by international law and by our perception of rights. It was a big mistake for NATO, etc., but we can't race here to condemn it. We need to find the elements that led to this, we need to look globally at this situation. We can't just talk about it - bombs were falling. We can think about how those bombs went down. We can see what that policy looked like since 1990, when we used to fight America. It was easy for politicians to fight with the most powerful people in the world. You see how people got away with it because we were brave politicians and we were fighting. So don't ever say what you just said about us again. We have never been on NATO's side, nor will we ever be on anyone's side but on the side of our people. What you said, it's a crime. You defamed the DS, you gave the verdict to all of us here. Remember that. I'd like you to come out here and take back what you just said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16397	Mr. Krasic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16398	There's no need to explain anything, just to give some facts. The first fact is, aboutly, it can be concluded that Milan Markovic, as a representative of a DS wing, is against the NATO pact. But it can be concluded that the DS for NATO is a pact and it pushes for a Partnership for Peace, entering the NATO Pact. Tadic shuts down the army, destroys the army: we go by standards, we have civil service, we have military service in cinemas, in theatres, recruits change diapers in pediatric wards of hospitals, etc. But they're against NATO, so they're for NATO. How much is it against, how much for, no one knows in this country, nor can they conclude. It's DS. That's the characteristic of that group of people who run the DS. Furthermore, against NATO, however, in 2001, all the rightful verdicts against the NATO Pact leaders, 15 of them, who committed crimes against humanity, shot the civilian population, killed the people, they brought them back, the prosecutor gave up the prosecution and then DOS could say: Mr. Solana, welcome, you are no longer grounded, no need to be arrested here, you are a respected gentleman, so he became an integral part of the SRJ constitutional system. It's DS. The DS is against NATO, however, Mr Tadic had special advisers from the NATO Pact structure. The DS is for NATO, but Boris Tadic couldn't hold a session of a DS board in Kosovo and Metohija in 2001, so he was strutting for three days: he can't, it's a difficult situation, as he highly commented. It's DS. What do you want me to apologize for? Who should I apologize to? Why should I apologize? Because I take off my masks and show you who the DS is? When are you guys the real thing - at the pay phone here, in that assembly? Are you right when one of your MPs, the other or Natasha Kandic comes out? Please, the whole of Serbia is against going to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, because conditions are not met. Apparently, I learned a lesson because two years ago we also criticised them for making people vote. Apart from the resolution, past the National Assembly decision, Tadic calls. How much did he get out - 800. He took a picture with that waiter, Petkovic, and now they're against Petkovic. When you're honest, when are you true? Where's your line? Why are you confusing people? You confuse everything, you confuse the political scene, and when you go abroad, you go to hear your opinion and if you can spit out the radicals a little bit. You don't think we know that. Well, we know. They're all telling us what you're doing. "Serbia is unstable because of radicals," "radicals grow popular". And then your delegation says, "They're like this." And they say, "Is it possible, why do you say so? "They are disgusted when they listen when you talk about a political scene in Serbia. Who should I apologize to, what part of the DS, who is for the NATO Pact or who is against the NATO Pact? (President: Time) Or should I apologize to that piece that goes to talk to the Shiptar opposition in Kosovo and Metohija? You have this problem that's tearing your party apart, but that's your problem and I'm not getting into it. Don't blame us for that, but tell us where you are, show yourselves, what you're real in, where you're real, what your political position is. You don't have a political attitude. And Mr. Legion, and the criminal of the Legion; and Mr. Chume, and the criminal of Chuma; and Mr. Baby, and the criminal of Baby; and Janjušević, and Kolesar. Where are you, define yourself and say: we are in half, between these or those, or we are on this side, or we are on that side. You're confusing me. Of course I don't want to go with you. You guys found my own brother, and I'm the only one. I have no moral right to look you in the eye.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16399	Mr. Markovic has reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16400	Do not compromise the dignity of the National Assembly by twisting my words. You here in front of the public and in front of the MPs said that we were for NATO bombing Yugoslavia, that we were for NATO. I'm telling you that we weren't for the bombing of Yugoslavia, nor will we ever be for anyone who bombes or threatens our people. If you want an answer to the question whether we are for Eurointegration, for the EU, for Euro-Atlantic integration, yes, we are and there is no dilemma. Don't confuse, disavow here and twist my words. No one from the DS has ever been in favour of what happened to Serbia; it happened because of the irresponsible politics of other people, not DS. You see if there are any of your own in that irresponsible policy. As far as the EU is concerned, as regards Euro-Atlantic integration, as well as co-operation with NATO, of course we are and we will always be, because our society needs prosperity and peace. We've been killed enough. He's had enough of this people. He's quite economically exhausted. That's why we need to vote for the DS, and that's why we're going to fight to get the votes of our voters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16401	Mr. Markovic, thank you, but there was not a word here about who is in favour and who is against NATO bombing, but who has condemned NATO crimes in our premises and who is not. Mr. Wolfie, here you go, replica, and then you have your 10 minutes, as head of the Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16402	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't understand Mr. Markovic's day-long outing, but I'm glad Mr. Markovic said it was aggression. I don't know what happened in the meantime, Mr. Markovic, so you said some others were guilty. How can others be guilty if it was aggression? Do you know what aggression is by legal definition? How can someone else be guilty and someone else's policy if someone committed aggression? Looks like you've got something mixed up, but anyway, I'm happy with your attitude. I'm glad the DS thinks it was an aggression on the SRJ. It's one of the key points of view. We are confident that in foreign countries too, they will accept in the right and best possible way, because it is indeed true. We'll manage, defend and defend ourselves, and not only us, we knew that after October 5th, when we didn't want to go into any transitional governments, to hide anything, to guard ourselves, to go out immediately and when we told Djindjic and everyone else not to touch us, because we knew we were defending ourselves, and some didn't know. So we will know now, but let them know, now we will know that we are defending and defending Serbia from those who are trying to put genocide chains around its neck, those who are trying to the whole state of Serbia, all Serbian citizens, shackles of crime to hang around its neck, hang those crimes that the perpetrators know about, have a name and name, and they want to transfer to the whole country and to the whole people. We will know that, and we are calling on all citizens of Serbia to see what was really happening in the former Yugoslavia on 9 July, in the grand hall of the Sava Centre. So, on July 9th, at 12 o'clock, in the large hall of the Sava Center, they will be able to see a movie of horrors, but a film that speaks well and accurately about what happened in the former Yugoslavia, which clearly shows that everyone committed crimes. Of course, unfortunately for us, we will have to show a lot of sad and creepy footage from both Kosovo and Metohija, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia, in order for people to see what the crime situation was and against the Serb people. It is obvious that some media will not report and speak in Serbia, that some political parties will not hear anything about it. Serbian citizens are eager for truth, they are eager for justice and justice. Serbian citizens are sick of hickeys and harangi, some of whom have learned to lead, counting that today is October 5th, so they just think when they're going to break into someone's house and they're going to harass someone. So I hear that one of them is planning to take us all to some stadiums, like some big camps, all of Hitler's ideas, those heritage and many love them, they like Hitler's ideas the most. The only problem with them is that they'd put it on someone else, and only if they could do it somehow to the end, but they're a lot of cowards so they could ever do anything and do it themselves, but they're watching, let's use someone who's in power, let's order him through the pressure of our friends or I don't know who. They do not use the Serbian police or the Serbian army or anyone else, let them do it themselves, let them make these camps, and let them try to take someone away, and let us see what happens, but let them no longer play with Serbia, with those who no longer have the patience to listen to this nonsense, to listen to their madness about how the whole of Serbia is guilty, how crimes are committed to God in our name. On our behalf, they were not done, and we do not accept that anyone did them on behalf of Serbian radicals. Someone may have made them on behalf of DS, on behalf of the second, third or fifth, and on our behalf, there is absolutely no one. I have already announced to you, on Tuesday or Wednesday at the latest, you will receive accurate information, with complete documentation, on who, when and how the Scorpion Commander Milanović-Mrgud financed, which political parties in this country, with how much money; what were the terms and requirements of Milan Milanovic-Mrgood when he financed individual political parties; whether or not to cover up crimes or something else; I am sure that we will, in particular, talk about it. In any case, there is obviously a difficult time ahead, the occupier has completely opened up, decided to go to the end in dealing with the local population, it is clear that they will not give up any further hysteria and further persecution of different opinions. We don't mind, we're here, we're not going anywhere, we're going to stay here with our families and we're going to fight them, let them know it well, in every place, words and knowledge, and we're going to fight them, and make sure that we win, because justice and Serbia always win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16403	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Živojin Stefanovic. I've been informed that the length of working hours until the end of the debate, at 3:30, has been said. According to the new Rules of Procedure, he's right and we're working on it. Have him prepare after MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16404	The esteemed chairman, honourable MPs, this morning and afternoon were the words of a resolution that was not adopted, not discussed in this parliament. Thank you to Mr. Vukic for the only mention of the Grdelička ravine, and I received a phone call a few hours ago, that we are down in southern Serbia, otherwise from Leskovec, condemning all the crimes, but everything and all the criminals, but we are terribly bothered that someone today and in the media and that one of the political parties does not remember Grdelica that day. One of the hardest and darkest days will be on April 12th in the history of Leskovci and the environment. Just as NATO bombers shot that bridge in Grdelica with 66 missiles, and on that day with three missiles, one broke the power supply first, and two missiles directly into the second and third wagons, and it was a major accident, it was a crematorium for living people. Unfortunately, I was the first man to enter those wagons at the time, and there was nothing left. The bones and the meat were squandered with iron. In that second car, a professor, a graduate chemist, with a baby, or five - month - old fruit, and her husband died. It wasn't a military goal, even the infamous Albright admitted it was a crime. But no one mentions it today, but when someone wants to go to that Srebrenica and bow down, where we don't deny the crimes and confess them, and we accept that the crimes they need to answer for, why the one who stayed, and who stayed three or four times in Gredelica, or in the Wooden End, do not give them both the victims and declare their condolences and the families of those victims. That's why we'll always be for all crimes to be convicted and all criminals to answer, but not to cover up crimes and not to cover up the war crimes of the NATO pact that have been committed. It's one of the biggest crimes, and that's why I'm coming to see that movie on July 9th, and it's probably going to be shown again, and it should always be remembered. As far as this set of laws in the area of justice is concerned, our representative Zarko Obradovic expressed his position, namely that we will vote for this set of laws, because we know that the material position of the judiciary is very bad, but also for all the employees in the judiciary, not only the judges and prosecutors, but we expect that the amendment and addition of these rules will make the judiciary depolitise, to be impartial, to do its job, to bring judgments, to sue those against whom criminal charges have been filed. And not that there are judges and courts, I'm talking about my neighborhood, even some judges can't even call themselves that, and given how the judiciary works in Leskovac, I can tell if they should even stand and whether they should even bear the name of the judicial authorities. It's not a problem, it's not a problem if you don't make an unprofessional decision. And if a wrong decision is made, there are higher instances that will change it, but the problem is in failure, in dishap, in riding and in listening to a political powermaker whether or not a subject should be processed. This is where the robbery privatisation was mentioned. The association of small shareholders registered in Leskovac warns about this in "Health", and this is an obvious example of robbery, such a giant in southern Serbia, was purchased in a tender sale among the first in Serbia for only three million and 200 000 euros, and on that day there were 12m euros in supplies in ready-to-do drugs and drug repromations. They filed criminal charges against the then Minister for Privatisation, Director and some of the employees in "Health". No one with a finger moved to process it, it lies in the drawer. What makes such prosecutors and such judges, even though their personal incomes are small, should be far greater than what was proposed, if they do their job, but if they don't, they don't deserve that calling. That's why, faster and better, after October 5th, complete management of the judicial authorities in the impasse area was changed, thus also to the MUP. He may be the minister of the MUP from whatever party you want, while the structure, which arrived at the Leskovec MUP on October 5th, has no movement. That's why they arrested the director of Health, declared him the biggest profiter, he was prosecuted, he was tried, he was released and for those days he spent in custody has now received 900,000 compensations from this state. Three more processes will pass, led against former directors, who were in the breeding collectives by October 5th. An obvious example of non-compliance in the Municipal and District Court in Leskovec, the case under which it is tried, is civil litigation, partner or joint construction, and the court weighs 17 years. In the process of initiating the verdict, the executive order for execution, the Supreme Court judge in the audit, makes a decision that annuls the first-degree and second-degree judgments, the municipal and district court halts the execution, all now re-runs and will surely continue for another 17 years. Why? Because that man from the village, the miller, is described as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia. In order to show and equate to political powers, which they have chosen in a simple process of assigning apartments, or two apartments, where there is an institution of legal assistance, but to show the force, the walking powers in the judiciary are giving a warrant to bring in former Prime Minister Mirko Marjanovic, only to confirm whether or not the meeting was in the government. There's a record of it, a man had to come and say it was that meeting and only then could the judge judge judge it. As much as it costs, how hard it is, and the man didn't come once, and he was punished by 10,000, because he didn't respect the court's call. It's just to keep them going. When the Democratic Party gentlemen say that they do not rule, that the opposition, when it comes to the judiciary, ministers, if you do not do something, these changes, not to bring political people, but to professional people, will be even worse. Because the Democratic Party continues to rule right in the impudent justice system and the largest firms in Leskovac. I'd like to be the opposition in Leskovac as they are. The director of the power distribution, who excludes anyone who doesn't pay for a month, as the plumbing shut down the other day, but therefore the seat of the Democratic Party, which doesn't pay for two years, doesn't rule out electricity, because it's their candidate. The district prosecutor, who was the perian of the Alliance of Communists, ran faster and better in the Democratic Party after October 5th, becoming the district prosecutor, and in that famous lustration, Batic suggested that two, according to results, submitted to the proposals for suement, the most effective two prosecutors should be lustrated and left out of work. To further prove themselves, because this group of human rights and some journalists, so-called. Independent from Leskovec in the action "Sabbe" in a daily newspaper wrote "Is there no criminals in Leskovec", the prosecutor gave a faster-better warrant, one night 53 boys from the street picked up, who needed help, and none after that were processed. Could such a person be the bearer of judicial functions? It's just a disgraceful act for people like this who act in the judiciary. So someone doesn't think I'm telling stories, these are specific life examples. It's hard to speak here in front of you, in front of the citizens of Serbia and Leskovci. They know that. But if they treat a man who can say that about them, and I can say that for the local Parliament's pay phone and here; I've spoken there many times, and here once, I'll do it again; is it possible, in three months, it's been five years since I've been so-called. The Change Alliance set the house on fire after its rally, that in the municipal prosecutor's drawer still stands only one page - criminal charges, upstairs where there should be a reception press, writes - the unknown perpetrator. So he's still on hold. He waits to grow old, to do his time, to perform absolute obsolescence after that pursuit. Is it possible that the judge of the municipal court, because it is the president of the Municipal Committee of the SPS, does not resolve the case for three years in a lawsuit under my private lawsuit against the state of Serbia and the municipality of Leskovac to make up for my damage, because the Law on Bonds provides: in such events and demonstrations of property and life are protected. They won't, because they know they have to qualify for those who ordered the part. For such judges and for such treatment, which divides people by party membership, and I'm afraid we'll soon begin with some other actions, I don't think there's any place in the judiciary. I will present many facts when there is a proposal for presidents, holders of judicial functions in Leskovac. We were told that the court was politicized when we were. There's a lot more to it now. Mr. Minister, it's a hell of a lot more. After October 5th, one third went to the DSS because they expected, as the schedule was that the district court would be the DSS, one third went to Batic, judges for violations and the other, and the third third went to the yellow ones. Now they're the most dominant in the impudent justice system. I will vote, regardless of what was personally done to me, which has been done in many parts, for this law, expecting that new personnel changes will change the judiciary in Leskovac. They have led to that, the MUP in Leskovac, the Municipal Court, the District Court, and both the prosecution, to encourage the perpetrators of the crimes. Look, if the burning house of some Ziki Zmigavac, it's me, it's my nickname, it hasn't been processed by a court for five years, everyone gets the right to fire. Here, two months ago, they set fire to medical school. Ask if they found who set it on fire. It's just acceleration, reproduction, and it's done. They are now giving it to a man who has been wronged, a moral right to go to old customs, to take justice into his own hands, and, knowing part of those who were at my house, to burn down their houses. Will you be processing then? I'd be arrested right now. So we can't split up like that. I expect that, after these changes and those changes around the court personnel, in the judiciary, the relationship, that the judiciary should be independent, that the judge can act. There is no such thing in Leskovac, because they are afraid of the proposal made by the prosecutor in the prosecutor's office and by the president of the court, that is, their college when they propose it. How could all the judges have made progress after two months? Local elections were held on 24 September, only at the end of October, and the election rights processes are rapid, that seven polling stations are being annulled because of some formalities, not theft, because in one polling post it is not evident that the polling post is there, in order to possibly win the DOS. He didn't win again. Those judges stayed. How is it possible for the court in Leskovac to rule in one legal void, now that it has been called off by the president of the municipality, everyone says I am his political opponent, but that was true. The court ruled that the municipal electoral commission should act. It's okay. The municipal electoral commission is required to act, but not to keep the judge working, because he has already been rewarded, so it schedules the day and time of the vote. Then I suggested to these guys, don't, let the court conduct a vote, then be a complete thick stew. That is why I expect that the change in these rules, which I am going to vote for, will allow staff policies in the judiciary to change for the better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16405	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Zivkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16406	Your Honor, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 100, abuse of the pay phone. A good part of Mr. Žika Stefanovic's exposure was simply a premonition, and the abuse consists of talking instead of talking about what the agenda topic is, he talked about his private problems with the city, people in the city, institutions, etc. That's why I think there's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to the results of the election, Mr Stefanovic, which his party should know, unfortunately achieves poor results, because in the 2000 elections his party won 38 parliamentary seats, and in the last 12 seats, and therefore he should also ask himself, and the people in his party, whether the right policy is being led. Unfortunately, everything bad that happened in Leskovac between 1990 and 2000 personally binds to Mr Stefanovic, which I don't think is right, but Mr Stefanovic himself contributed to his public appearances that everything that bad happened in Leskovac binds to his name. But let him and his party worry about it. I don't want to be their lawyer, but for a fair reason, I want to tell them it's bad that they do it. Instead of dealing with development issues today, instead of talking about the law on higher education, which was withdrawn from the procedure, we seem to have lost a lot of time today, and by chance we've lost all day, dealing with some of the things we've overcome, instead of doing development. It seems that most still don't realize that time is an irreparable resource, and unfortunately, it is a resource that is common, which is irreparable to all of us and we have lost it today, apparently. But what we really need to take care of is true, and Mr. Stefanovic has brought forth a series of lies, and that's why I had to report today, regardless of how bitter I feel that I have to talk about one such thing. I thought I'd talk about very important and useful things for Serbia and this assembly. Everything that happens to Mr Stefanovic is bad for the Democratic Party. Fortunately, there's no truth to that. There's no truth to the arson of the house, because he knows it was the hooligans who were tried. If some aren't discovered in the case of another arson, which, of course, no one in their right mind can justify, it's for every conviction and of course these people need to respond. But they weren't found because the SUP probably didn't do the job right, and Mr. Stefanovic forgets that he did it there, because he did ten years in both the judiciary and the working organizations. If he was talking about "Health" and some other organizations, I have to remind him and all those who support him that in Leskovac's history, the biggest robbery happened during that period. I don't think Mr. Stefanovic took something personal for himself, but he has a very large responsibility for what happened, because he was the main humane. Today he brought many things into connection, and he also declared the Human Rights Committee to the Yellows, and what he was talking about, I couldn't even write it down, but it was mostly a lot of false. I think Mr. Stefanovic missed the topic, should have dealt with the laws. In the future, I would ask him to discuss the problems he has in the institutions that have caused him, if they have done him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16407	Replica, MP Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16408	It's not good when two people from the same place find themselves behind this pay phone and tell different stories, but the truth and time will show. Mr. Professor, I didn't mention you, you found yourself called, and that's your problem, and it's not my problem with Leskovec citizens -- and now to be elections, I will personally win you again. You know that well. The problem is, you couldn't figure out the number of 38 councilmen on September 24th. Your problem was that at that time the election unit of the three federal MPs elected two Socialists. Your problem was that it was then that Sloba Milosevic defeated the county president. You found Zika Stefanovic here and faster-better on stage, you win TV all day, you bring out the director of television with a knife, and all those who carried him out with a knife became functioners with you. You become the president of the municipality by buying votes, because you intimidate one, buy two from the SPS, once you promise to be the head of the SUP and then play it, and then the judge who prosecutes the case you're talking about, since 1999, Mr. Zivkovic, you propose to be the head of the county's MUP. It's a price to judge as you ordered. Let go of those stories, you're personally injured because you couldn't be the president of the minority community, so you're faster or better, with the famous Shabic, who's back in office, and I had to vote for it because of party discipline, and you're deluded by a forced administration, and you couldn't win there. In the proportional elections, we got 12 councilors, and the entire DOS budget got 15, so individually measure who's as strong as it is. In Leskovac, the next election will be won by radicals and the SPS together, so be sure, because I have other relations with these. I was just talking about the law. This is an obvious example of the lack of justice. I didn't abuse the pay phone. Otherwise, that the judicial authorities had worked, that they had reached a verdict and to my harm, I had the right to move on, but the failure to act prevents me from exercising my rights or that my error, if I was wrong, was legally resolved through the competent institutions. The president of the municipal court held the case for six months, didn't want to deploy it to the judges. The district attorney still keeps it in the drawer. The district attorney, who has the right to control, does not act because he is ordered not to act, because then many will reveal themselves. No man has been charged. Unfortunately, some more forces did their part, I pity these people, there were five young people who were on the roof of my house after that, someone got hurt because of the disease, some because of the sniffing, etc., but nature just did that selection. But unfortunately, both mine and theirs have not been discovered by the judicial authorities, because that day, the Yugoslav Assembly was burned. On that day, none of the people from the woodland, from the then opposition, who were believed to be the opposition, left Belgrade. They got a warrant, and tell them who gave the order from Belgrade to win television in a way that was won and who gave the order to burn the house down. The fact that the M.O.P. didn't participate, it's a string with you, which I've been talking about all along. Therefore, the MUP was supposed to stop it. So don't honor me bringing my private things out here, because this is the first time I've talked about it in this way, begging once to end the proceedings in the judicial authorities, to have the right to win this dispute or to break out my delusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-06-24-0.u16409	Since I've been informed that there's no more television transmissions, and under Article 169, we don't have any conditions to continue, we interrupt work. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours.
