ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-20-0.u11226	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 127 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. None of the MPs have reported a leave. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have called this session, in agreement with representatives of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, within a short period of time, set out in Article 80(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda decision, which was set by 222 MPs in their request for the second extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, which was called upon by 222 MPs, acting in accordance with Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the Second Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a decision approving the detention of Dragan Samardzija, judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca, who was submitted by the Administrative Board of Work according to the agenda. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE APPROVAL OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE SAMARDZIA PREPARATION, THE COURT OF THE PUBLIC COURT IN THE BAC PALANCE For this point of the agenda, you have adopted a proposal for a decision approving the detention of Dragan Samardžija, Judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca, submitted by the Administrative Board. I remind you, according to Article 156(3) and Article 90 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the representative of Proposer Tomislav Nikolic, chairman of the Administrative Committee, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since there are no voter groups registered, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 89. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. Before I conclude a unique search, does the motionary's representative want a final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a single search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the voting day. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session, pursuant to Article 81(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday, January 20, 2005, as the day for voting. We'll approach the vote immediately, at 11:57 p.m. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search of the motion for a decision, we move on to a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to approve the detention of Dragan Samardzija, judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. For 127, he did not vote one out of 128 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to approve the detention of Dragan Samardzija, judge of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 95. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Thank you very much, very much.
