ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14770	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a new tourism law that the G17 parliamentary group supports and will vote for. Tourism is one of the five most important industries in developed countries. In Serbia, unfortunately, there is still insufficient awareness of how profitable tourism is. Tourism should actually be one of our most important export branches. I'd like to point out here that it's a part of the economy that can probably be developed as quickly as possible in relation to all other branches of the economy, so that with the accompanying activities, it makes it possible to employ a large number of people. Examples and comparisons, I would like to suggest that in the world of tourism a total of about 500 billion dollars, which is a billion and a half a day, with more than $30 billion in tourism revenue in first place, etc. old tourist destinations such as Spain, Italy, France. However, progress in the development of transition tourism is evident, where I would first mention Hungary and the Czech Republic. Tourism involves the activities of the so-called "Tourism". initiative tourism, which means the organisation of travel in the country and abroad, as well as the sale of arrangements for travel organizers, then reception tourism, which means the reception and transport of passengers to the place of residence, excursion organization, catering activities in accommodation facilities (hotels, apartments, private rooms), as well as the renting of cars, etc. renter. In addition, tourism includes an administrative part that monitors, plans, promotes tourism economy, i.e. tourism organisations, starting with the Serbian Tourist Organisation, and beyond, through regional and urban tourism organisations. Serbia has a very high potential for the development of the reception work, primarily Banjska, mountainous, as well as river and rural tourism. It is not necessary to have seas in order to generate high revenues from tourism. The example is Austria, Switzerland, and more recently the Czech Republic and Hungary. Last year, the Serbian Tourist Organisation worked hard to spread a positive picture of our country, and I want to commend it here now. Contracts were made with pi-ar agencies to promote Serbia's tourist offer. Negotiations have been launched with several British, German, French and Israeli tour operators. This year, as a result of the work of the Serbian Tourist Organisation, the first foreign guide in the English language of the publishing house "Bradt", whose distribution in England has already begun and is expected since 1 June of this year in America. This publication has 310 pages, with excellent color photos, excellently done and transparent geographical maps and plans. On the front page is a very stimulating tourist photo of the medieval Golupec. The guide contains all the data needed by the modern traveler, data on geographical, climate, historical, cultural aspects of Serbia, detailed description of individual regions and cities, but also practical information about hotel accommodation, restaurants, internet cafes, tourist agencies and the like. The first step to bringing foreign passengers to Serbia has already been made. We have a prerequisite for the next one. In the world today is a very popular form of travel called Siti Brake. This means organization of weekend tours, where Europeans fly over the weekend for very small money to popular low cost companies, air carriers such as Easy jet and Ryan Air; those for two or three pounds can fly to destinations in Europe and hotels in the middle category have accommodations and spend weekends. The popular countries are now in transition, such as the Czech Republic, Hungary and Bulgaria. Given that our capital has an extremely rich restaurant offer, I think we could very quickly prove this claim with the beginning of the debate on how important tourism is in fact an economic branch. With this in mind, it was clear that the law on this activity was necessary to complement, modernise and improve, in order to establish a basis for improving tourism. The basic provisions of the law correct some irregularities in the previous business of hotel companies, such as The setting of prices for domestic and foreign tourists, where the new law requires that accommodation prices for all guests must be equal. A strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Serbia, as well as a strategy for tourism development, has been specified in the work on the development and promotion of tourism. The paper in the law is to define the tourist region and tourist resort. The tourist region, apart from being a geographical and spatial continent, naturally shaped, where an integrated tourist offer can be formed, must have at least 1,000 beds in basic accommodation facilities and at least 150,000 overnight stays in the previous year. It must also have an established tourist organisation at the level of the tourist region, as well as tourist information centres in tourist resorts. Another newspaper in the bill is the opening of a tourism development fund, a budget fund that is a condition for the more intensive development of tourism, but also the possibility of controlling the inflow of funds and their dedicated spending. The fund's revenues would be made out of the Republic of Serbia's budget, then part of the tourism fee, as well as donations and loans from the country and abroad. One of the newspapers in the bill is a tourist fee, which represents one type of tourist rental, of which 80% will go to municipalities, and the remaining 20% will merge into the development fund. These funds will primarily be used for advertising materials, propaganda and promotion. The effects of this law will be visible only at the end of 2005 because of the creation of a series of accompanying documents that will define the tourist compensation, whose height will depend on which tourist region the place belongs. Thus, for example, the tourist regions of the first rank will be Kopalnik and Zlatibor, which will be subject to a special price. The new law specifically regulates the activity of tourist agencies, in line with the EU Council Directive on organised travel from 1992. The proposed solutions aim to raise service levels and protect service users. Therefore, the proposal for a new law for the first time shows the division of travel agencies, i.e. travel organizers, to: the agencies that organise travel in the country, which are subject to licence B, and the organisers who organize travel in the country and abroad, which are subject to category A. We have so far had a situation where this has not been demarcated, so everyone has been doing everything. The new law accurately determines the conditions for obtaining a licence for both types of business, in the only right way i.e. the amount of the deposit, i.e. insurance or bank guarantee, prescribed by the law for the type of business it deals with. So, agencies that organise travel in the country have the obligation to deposit 5,000 euros, while agencies that organise travel in the country and abroad have the obligation to deposit 30,000 euros. What makes such a difference? Well, for the simple reason that the return of passengers, for any reason, from some destination in the country, takes far less money than it takes for the return of travellers from abroad. This way, the unpopular situation that happened last summer is covered. We all remember an affair with the Fantasy agency, where 200 passengers remain trapped abroad, without accommodation, even though they have made arrangements to fly in Turkey neatly. Besides, we've often heard from friends, or it's happened to us (not only to us experts from G17 plus, but I hope they all traveled here, or not only to travel but also to vote abroad) that we paid for the arrangement and that instead of five-star hotels, we got a three-star hotel, that, for example, instead of flying, from Hurgada to Cairo we had to squawk nine hours by bus, etc. So far, the cheated passengers have been able to apply for compensation to the agency they've travelled through. These disputes were largely not settled, so they had to go to the next instance, which is the Jute arbitration, provided that the agency was a member of the YUTE, and as a last resort, it remained a court case, which lasted and lasted. The new law regulates the conditions for obtaining a permit to carry out tourism activities that the tourist agency should meet. One of the conditions is precisely the provision of tourist arrangements, in addition to a guarantee deposit or guarantee of banks, which represents a financial guarantee and is used to recover in case the services from the travel programme are not implemented or have not been fully implemented. In addition, penalties are provided for the non-solid behaviour of tourist agencies. In addition to cash, the penalty for withdrawing the work license is scheduled, after twice repeated the same offence. The new law strengthens the control of the work of tourist agencies, which will be carried out by inspectors at the ministry level. In addition to protecting the users of travel agencies' services, this part of the law regulated the protection of the tourism profession itself. I would like to point out that this year we have the first major exam, which consists in preparing major international meetings, such as the European Bank's annual assembly for Reconstruction and Development, then the European Championship in basketball, as well as the European Championship in volleyball, which, if all goes well, will open the door for the reception of new guests from the world. Finally, I note that the government has already taken the first steps towards improving tourism, since the 2005 budget envisions the release of 280m dinars for subsidies to the tourism economy, which is four times more than in the previous year, and according to a proposal for a new tourism law for this economic branch, 500 million dinars were planned. G17 Plus will vote in favour of this law, because, as usual, it supports all the positive laws that lead us to Europe and that bring Europe to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14771	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Stevanovic, followed by Boris Karaicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14772	Ladies and gentlemen, the tourist destinations our country can offer foreign and domestic tourists are indeed numerous. First of all, there should be a large number of spas that we have in our beautiful country; at this point, I couldn't specifically single out any of them, because each one is beautiful in its own way. Unfortunately, lately, in the economic situation we are in and a major media campaign against Serbia, we have such a situation that our tourist facilities are half empty or empty. Also, we have a good number of mountains, and there is definitely a mention of Tara and Zlatibor, who have their own real soul, and there are people who can really rest, to breathe in, as they say, full of lungs of air. In particular, the Kopalnik, which meets all European and world standards, especially when it comes to active vacation, recreation, related to winter sports. Of course, Kopalnik has all sorts of ski paths and offers really great opportunities, especially for foreign tourists, who have a strong standard, but also for our domestic jet-set society, which only has opportunities, which is the only one we can see on the Kopalnik; we can only see Karic and the ruling set, Dinkic, Labus, Veli Ilic, while the average citizen of Serbia can really only dream of the Kopalnik, and many only Zlatibor. Unfortunately, with today’s standard, which the government offers to the public, it cannot afford even five percent of the people to afford their own vacation and their families. A certain citizen sends his child to sea, and that comes down mainly to it. In this bill of law, I would like to commend that there is a particular emphasis on rural tourism. Because we are faced with this artificial, concentrated food, and I think it would be a great propaganda for us to go back to nature and natural, healthy, domestic food, and for that, thank God, we have great conditions. However, one of the conditions for the development of rural tourism is the development of a travel network, which should be specifically considered, means that road repairs and road construction, so that foreign tourists, but also domestically, can visit our beautiful villages. For years, the media campaign against Serbia, which has been conducted by major world media houses, has been a major task for ministers, to break through the barrier, and to return Serbia to the place where it should be found in the world. There's gonna be a hell of a lot of work here. With regard to this negative campaign that's being led, I'm going to set an example. Look at "Blic," our daily newspaper, doing propaganda. Here's a map of Serbia-Montenegro (in the hands of the newspaper), without Kosovo. It means "Blic", and the Austrian company OMV, which, we know, has a lot of gas stations on all our roads; they show us a map of Serbia-Montenegro, without Kosovo; we give these people the opportunity to develop their business in our beautiful country, and you see how well they pay us back. Serbia's economic development certainly depends on the road network, where tourism plays a major role in this situation. When it comes to our long history of banish services, which we have at our disposal, it will certainly affect that. visiting foreign citizens for the further economic development of our country. One of the particular problems that needs to be highlighted is that we have a large number of tourist facilities still in state, social property and the privatisation process is likely to be imminent in order to speed up this branch, this activity. I can say, unfortunately, a negative case of Travellers, which has a large number of hotels and restaurants along the highway, as well as other places in Serbia. I think that's where the negative privatisation was made and that such cases should be eliminated at the very beginning of privatisation. Unfortunately, the catering facilities are mostly empty and half empty for now, because our citizens can't afford it because of standards, for many it's kind of a luxury. In this bill, I would also like to commend one proposal, which is said to be – 80% of the profits generated by the harvesting are obtained by local self-government, which, of course, has not been the case so far. The establishment of a local tourist organisation is certainly one of the good parts of this law. Bad things, I would like to point out, refer to Serbia's Tourist Organization and the Tourism Development Fund. Unfortunately, there are again additional difficult financial investments, as they rely mainly on the state's budget. We from the Serbian Radical Party have always been against agencies, including some other funds, etc., which are mostly a burden on the state budget. My municipality of Lazarec unfortunately does not have any special tourist destinations, except for the Museum of the Kolubar Battle, where we prove once again, by the fact that the tombs are common, where our and German soldiers are buried, how human and welcoming we are. So, this Balkan soul, hospitality has been adoring us for years, and our country's Satanization continues, unfortunately. When it comes to the tourism development strategy, it is said here that it is working in co-operation with local self-government. Unfortunately, I will show you an example – we have recently discussed the Energy Development Strategy – that this is not the case. Namely, it is not in line with this agenda point, but I must stress that we had a strategy for the development of energy, and a delegation from the Lazarec municipality visited three of the largest institutions: the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly, who is now out of place. They visited three of the largest institutions and said Prime Minister Kostunica would make a firm promise to form a professional team to work on a study of justification for the further development of spears in Vreoc, a surface spear, much of which depends on the development of our energy. I was showing this elaborate last year that we have coal supplies in the Colubara for 55-60 years and that our energy must be based on coal, because it is the cheapest energy. However, the import lobby is doing something else and the government wants to buy time, three or four more years, to challenge this. And it's a big problem, because environmental pollution is catastrophic in that very place that needs to be moved. Economic profitability is absolute; expropriation should be carried out, and the cost of the property of these inhabitants is only 6% of the value of coal under that place. The president of the Assembly, Mr. Markovic, visited the Vreocs for several hours and probably returned from that place with a full beard of coal dust. In the end, let me just say to Mr. Minister: do you consider, after that gay parade, you as a Democrats, that this show of eroticism should also be placed in our tourist offer?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14773	The People's MP Boris Karaicic has the word, and after him, the MP Goran Knezevic will be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14774	Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, the Honorable President, the tourism law is actually the law that we have waited most for in this assembly and it is a good thing that it finally came to the agenda. I hope that proves that the seriousness of this calls for greater. Of course, I can talk about tourism as a branch that in the last year achieved a clean $227m income, as a branch that is among the most profitable in our country and can talk about great successes, great work and repeat much of the words of my predecessors. But even though there have been serious shifts in the state's behaviour towards this branch in the last year, I'm still going to say some of the things that are missing, only to get to know the public and to speed up the further development of this branch. So tourism as a branch of economy in our country, with such income, cannot be measured with other countries in the environment, with Hungary, Croatia, Greece, and let alone with Spain and France, and it should not be a rapper for anyone here in the hall. I think that Serbia as a future destination has a great chance as a transit country and as a country that in the past was primarily known for its negative headlines in newspapers and on television and as such has some kind of advert, even if negative, which is why it can change that picture. So Serbia as such has several advantages. It is, above all, a Danube as a great European river and a transit route, a highway connecting Western Europe with the Middle East, or Greece. However, that part and those advantages are not used enough. I'll ask you here if you know how many active marinas there are today, where ships can dock during the summer season and meet our country? There's no one. Do you know how many hotels Belgrade misses, middle-class hotels? I don't mean Hayat, Intercontinental and those hotels where time still stands for 1989, 1990, but hotels of middle-class hotels where tourists who come for the weekend can spend money and spend their time. There are very few, only a few, and it is very difficult to find accommodation in Belgrade that looks like something. Not to mention that at major centres in Serbia, such as Nis, Kruševac, Kraljevo, Užice, Shabac, there are almost no accommodation facilities, except possibly in newly opened private hotels or in private management. Then, our big problem, which began to be solved during the Olympics, is unhygiene, uncleanness, especially in public toilets, public toilets. Last year, the ministry made a great effort when it warned all facilities along the highway during May that they should take more care of it because of the arrival of a large number of tourists who went to Greece in the Olympics. It was then and closing the facilities and punishing, but it's only the beginning and drop in the sea, day and day it's a proverbial and day-to-day legacy we can't get rid of. Enter any social firm, any social-owned catering facility, you'll see the terrible toilets and you'll see that this testifies not only to our unhygiene but also to the unculture and negligence that exists in that area. No one can be drawn to it, let alone someone who's used to spending money and having standards like he had in his country. Of course, despite the fact that the Ministry and the competent tourism organisation, TOS, have done much to present our country at international gatherings and fairs, and at the biggest fairs in London, Paris, Berlin, Frankfurt, and what has had a very large echo and Serbia has been included as one of the best destinations for visiting the coming years, it should also be said that, let's say, a tourist who comes into our country and doesn't know our language very hard enough to manage. It was only changed during last fall, when a signalling has been set in Belgrade in the capital, suggesting significant destinations for the visit. So someone who starts from Shida, say, south of Serbia, and doesn't know Serbian, can hardly find out where Ravanica monastery, where Zica is, if he knows about these monasteries and if he wants to visit them. So the big problem is this traffic signalling and it has to change soon. It doesn't mean much to us that we have very beautiful destinations that are valuable, if those who have to visit them haven't been informed about it. Of course, one of the most important things to mention – Serbia has an Obedic Bar and an Imperial Bar that has 80% of the habitats of all bird species in Europe. I think that information is very important and that it can be a fact that can attract a large number of tourists, especially from the UK. Then, hunting tourism in Vojvodina is not used enough and, in my view, is not sufficiently promoted, and can be of great importance to tourism in the coming period. When it comes to the law itself, I would point out a few things that are not mentioned. In fact, the law regulates a new area in a much better way, regulates the work of tourist animators. It's a job that's new, it started in the 1990s. It is carried out, above all, by young people in hotels, who have the obligation to keep as many guests in that hotel as possible and to provide them with as much entertainment as possible and to spend as much money in that facility as possible. I think it is one branch that is very important in tourism and it is good that in this new law it is adequately treated and what future animators must pass the test and one form of passing exams to adequately carry out this job. So far, the area has been left behind, as well as much, unfortunately, to the verse and improvisation. Then, we had, especially during the 1990s, a double price. So, for the services that we paid in one way, as a rule, foreigners paid twice the price or three times the price, not only on the highway when you pay tolls, but in hotels when you use any service. It was a very wrong decision, the wrong way of acting. I've always imagined us, what it would mean if we went somewhere and paid twice the price there than the Germans in Munich, the Greeks in Athens, what it would look like, so not only this law but the earlier decisions made that mistake and, of course, it should be commended. So, I think that's how I end up, except for this legislative regulation in this area, except that we have to take our behavior seriously, there's a great deal of confrontation and release from our delusions that only we have clean air, good food, an adequate offer. I don't think that's a good approach and that we can look up to other countries and make our approach to tourism very simple and rational. So if this year's income was 221 million, let's make it 10 - 15% higher this year, let it be 10 - 15% higher each year, let the number of overnight stays, the number of tourists will always be 10 - 15% higher, because that will satisfy everyone in this country, starting with the competent minister, from the Ministry, through the state, and also the citizens who directly through it make their income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14775	The word has the People's MP Momir Markovic, and let the MP Bojan Kekic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must agree with one piece of Mr. Karaicic's exposure. It is true, there is no marina in Belgrade, it is true that the port below on Savi is neither equipped nor clean, nor comfortable to stay there. Mr. Karaicic is absolutely right about that. The bottom line is this: Belgrade Mayor and that team around him, I don't know what his chief architect is called, is largely holding back all the forces from developing a tourist offer in Belgrade. A month ago, we had in the municipality of Zemun a delegation from Italy that is ready to literally finance the complete construction of a marina that would receive both medium-sized passenger ships and boats in the Danube, in the Danube Key, and for everything we have to talk to the mayor of Belgrade, all the permits go exclusively from him. We've had a lot of problems about putting Lido Island to the disposal of tourists; it's an extraordinary island, the pearl of Belgrade. In order to prevent us, given that there are also foreign stakeholders and investors who are willing to invest there, that both the island and the Danube and the Sava are approaching the citizens of Belgrade and tourists, they have invented a regulation that they have translated into some kind of legal act, where, for example, the Zemun municipality will be a user of the island of Lido, the Great War Island, and the tutor of the municipality of Zemun will be the Public Enterprise of the City Greens. The municipality will still be obliged to pay all the grants that go to the city and the Republic, and "City Greenery" will be the institution that will grant any permits and that the umbrella will be stabbed on the Great War Island. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another law that won't do any good, it doesn't mean anything, it didn't have to come to the agenda today, especially today, at this time when the state of Serbia has much more problems to solve. We have not adopted a common position on Kosovo, the consensus has not been reached. Some politicians met, certain officials at some night seats in some, probably appropriate, chambers and made some decisions on behalf of Serbian citizens, on behalf of the part of the Serbian citizens, because they could only represent the part they voted for, to hear... And this is the topic, and tomorrow, after they take away Kosovo, when they come to take away Vojvodina, then I'm going to ask you if this was a topic today and if tomorrow will be a topic. Thus, the existing law that has so far existed has been relatively well regulated by this matter. When the bill came out in the middle of last year, i.e. a proposal to amend and supplement the law, Serbian Radical Party MPs gave certain amendments that would greatly improve the text of the legal project. The other day, when we received amendments from the MPs, we saw that all these amendments were prescribed, that MPs from the parliamentary group were signed under them; those amendments were prescribed, other MPs were signed, and these amendments were adopted. So why didn't you say, Minister, we could have not signed, so sign whoever you want, but it's important for the amendments to pass as they are. The essence of this law, what is affecting the Serbian Radical Party, as well as the citizens of Serbia in the far line, because it goes out of their pockets, is the formation of a fund. Since a lot of funds have been formed and many abuses in the use of these funds have already been made public in Serbia, we do not think this is necessary. We cannot accept the formation of the fund, and unless the amendments that regulate it are passed we will vote against the law. Let's remember (when the gentleman who deals with agriculture – the topic) whether the loans from the Agricultural Fund are evenly distributed, they are given rationally and whether they are given to those who need them most. I'm afraid the next day at the use of funds from this fund will be the same – if his uncle, if he's closer to him, then he can go to Zlatibor and a spa to get a location and money to build an object. Tourist trends in every country, even in this country, depend on a lot of things. Depending, above all, on the political situation, on the economic situation, depends on the quality of what we offer tourists. The fact is that we have this corridor E10 and ten million people drive from Horgos to the end of the highway, to stop by, maybe, to have coffee or not to stop by. We don't have an offer that would attract these tourists to stay and spend some money. I was talking about War Island, I was talking about building a marina -- it's just one municipality of 17 municipalities in Belgrade. The Danube goes from Zemun to Groca, so many beautiful islands, beautiful beaches, beautiful beaches that can be exploited, of course, sounds empty and untapped. We have, in addition, very attractive areas that could be an incredibly good tourist offer. We have mountains, no matter what the predecessor said he couldn't accept that we had the cleanest water, we have the cleanest forests, the cleanest food. We have so many spas, which, however, are in quite a ruined state, but if these spas are equipped and arranged, there will be enough capacity to call and retain tourists. Why do tourists visit Serbia? Why do tourists tour Serbian areas that can be touristic attractive? First of all, this nadaadic, burazeric privatisation you've been doing since 2000, and it seems that the trend will continue to linger, was such that, for example, the best tour operator we've had in Serbia, "Putnik", former Prime Minister Zivkovic, will sell by hand to a certain Ilic, who closes hotels, fires workers, urns and destroys capacities, and now I hear he's suing the state and asking for extensive compensation. Gentlemen, when the SRS assumes power, each of these and other privatisation contracts will be looked down, so anyone who is not respected to the end will surely be broken up. "Inex Interexport", one of the biggest hotel owners and other tourist offers, a certain Sarenac, director (or else he is much more famous in Serbia as the bearer of the Mercedes-Benz affair than the director of the Index Interexport), has ruined. We have nothing to offer today. I don't know what the situation is in that house, but I think it's led to a beggar stick. Belgrade is a tourist attraction. Belgrade has been released underground these days, those lies on Tashmajdan. Many went away and came back, but some of the MPs I don't see, so I'm afraid they didn't stray there. There is one more thing, especially today, because Belgrade today is a tourist attraction; Star and Partizan are playing, and when you start from the last village on Belgrade territory everything is blue by specialists. Are we such a nation that we need special forces from us to guard? Mr. Minister, unless the amendments tabled by Serbian Radical Party MPs are adopted and thus improved this legislative project, the SRS parliamentary club will not vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14777	Right on the line, Mr. Karaicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14778	I don't think I've brought up any facts that are unverified and exaggerated. I didn't criticise it, I didn't praise it too much. I was talking about our delusions when it comes to us, and I also said what is good in this new bill and what has been done well by the Ministry in my opinion for the past year. If such work had been more than 1990s, today would not have been the income of 221 million but, say, half a billion. And because the increase in income in this branch, therefore in tourism, is noticeable, which is good and useful, I commended it and did not really say anything bad about this legislative proposal, because I have no reason to. I think he's modern, he's good, and I haven't found any regrets. I think every interpretation and calling is tending and serving something else, not finding the best solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14779	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14780	It's a replica, I've been mentioned. He said, a farmer from your party from Srem. I'm not from Srem. I'm from Buck. Keep laughing a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14781	Mr. Vlaovic, here's to the Rules of Procedure, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14782	Sir, you mentioned that there is no debate here on what is most important in Serbia. You're partly right. You're thinking about Kosovo. Did you think about the other day when you were talking about one amendment all day, and that insignificant amendment? Tell them what's going to happen to the farmers' loans. How did you get so much care for agriculture? During your reign, there was one brand for 100 kilos of wheat. Let me ask you something else: When you love farmers and agriculture so much, why do you not have any real farmer? Either you hate them, or the farmers are smart, so they won't come with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14783	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14784	It makes no sense, Mr. Vlaovic, that you are objecting to the Serbian Radical Party not to worry about peasants. Of the 1.5 million votes won by the SRS, I assure you, at least 700 thousand votes are from the village. It's not true that while we were in power we didn't take care of the peasant and you know it very well. As much as we could, we took care of the peasant so much at the time. They cared a lot more about the peasant than about the workers, and you know it well. Stay out of what we've been talking about one amendment all day. It's politics. First tell me, are you a politician or a peasant here? You don't let politicians be peasants, peasants be politicians. If you come out here like a peasant, don't ask me what I'm doing as a politician. If you come out as a politician, don't act like a peasant, because there's something wrong with that. We're destroying the government here. We want to bring this government down, because it's no good, Mr. Vlaovic. The government has not yet been fenced by Svilanovic, who teaches Kosovo and Metohija. That's our concern for Kosovo. We don't know what you're doing. If you don't give Kosovo and Metohija, if you won't agree to a change in borders, which nobody comes out here to say this government has nothing to do with Goran Svilanovic, those who negotiate the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija, those who destroyed the military, the police, that destroyed the economy. This government seems to have nothing to do with anything. It's the best government that has nothing to do with anything and you don't attack it for nothing. We need a government that will take responsibility for everything that is happening in Serbia. The easiest way is to attack the SRS -- six years ago, in a year while you were in power, you ruined Serbia. How can you say that? You know what's happened since 2001. And what was fresh and pure is completely corrupted by the way DOS came into power and the way it still rules. Who runs this country's foreign policy? A man who has four MPs. Who's running the financials? The one who has 20 MPs. And you want us to shut up and watch it calmly? That's what you want the SRS to be a record player, to win the most votes and sit in the O.R. and wait for what you're going to do. It's not possible, because the test for all of us is the election. Well, we won those elections. This is how politics is run, how we run it. You can't criticize us; beat us, then criticize us. Just because you're in power doesn't mean you beat us. Serbia couldn't let you beat us. Not personally, to you, it's an honor, this is the third party in which you manage well. I respect people who get along in many parties. No, Lune, I'll never say a word against you, you're my brother. I'm talking now against Mike Vlaovic. Politics is a complicated thing, everything changes overnight. What you did as an opposition, as soon as you become the government, you resent the opposition. Let me remind you, your president and your MPs were sitting in 6-7 seats in the second row and were worse when they were in opposition than they are now while we're in opposition. Here, Mr. Dimitrijevic, his party was the worst when she was in the opposition. Now she'd like it to be a quiet, quiet country where the opposition goes down the street, shut up, those in power come along, we move either against the wall or against the curb, just make sure we don't get hit by a car. But without this struggle in the Assembly there is no parliamentaryism, there is no democracy. You saw during the state of emergency - the most peaceful was the opposition, no statement, no show, nothing. Was it democracy? Has Serbia progressed then? It's not. You're putting up with us because we're putting up with you too. If DOS were in a situation where the SRS is now, you'd have demonstrations every day. (President: Time, Mr. Nikolic. I'm done, I'm sorry. Every day there would be harassing, scheming in front of the Parliament, in front of the government. We'd gather people, break, crash, burn. America would talk about a dictatorship that is ruling in Serbia, as those who have a third of the MPs are not in power. What else do you want from the Serbian Radical Party? We want elections. If you don't like it, say it straight. He said Vuk Draskovic – where to give the elections now, to win the SRS. So you don't give the election, it holds you up, and we want the election. The sessions will last while the power has the SRS. It's no longer up to you and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14785	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Shormaz reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14786	Of course, as a politician. Article 100 — every MP is obliged to speak the truth and respect this house. Among other things, there was no telling the truth about the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I would say, particularly, the Prime Minister, on Kosovo and Metohija. It seems to me that a week ago I read Mr Tomislav Nikolic's statement in a newspaper saying he believes the prime minister on Kosovo. So I read in the text. Is that what Mr. Nikolic said or not, I don't know, but that's what it said in that paper. The story of Svilanovic and how no one from the government reacted is also incorrect. Everyone knows very well that the government has fenced itself and has sought responsibility and that we, as the DSS, have called the DS and DS Parliament Club to take a stand towards Svilanovic. That's different. Thirdly, on Kosovo and Metohija, I think everyone should think a little bit more before they go out for this pay phone. If Mr. Terry Davis, as Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, said the other day what he said, and we all know what he said -- that there are no negotiations on the status of Kosovo without the participation of Belgrade in these negotiations; if we hear what the American ambassador has been saying lately, which is the first time, I would say, since Tito's death, that someone from American diplomacy is practically taking sides with Serbia as a state and that they support what the Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica is doing, I think it is correct at least that it does not comment or that it is not represented in a different light. As for what the opposition should do, I fully agree. The opposition does what it does, fully legitimate methods of choosing and has the right to talk all day about one amendment if the Rules of Procedure allows it. That's not controversial. That's what we did in the last term. Of course it's not a dispute. But if he can, brother dear, bring down the government, let him bring it down. If he can't, he can talk for four years about how he's gonna shoot her down, and the people will appreciate who did what. I'm just wondering if it's interest at this point, when the state is going like this, and it seems to me that it's going well, that this story is being told and that it's working so badly and slowly, while, let's say, Bulgarian and Romanian parliament are adopting a few laws a day, and we're talking about one amendment all day. That's not the point, but the opposition, Mr. Miko Vlaovic, has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14787	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Mika Vlaovic, and then Tomislav Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14788	I'll be very brief, just a few words. Mr. Nikolic, even you were in three parties: you were at Guberina's, you were a communist, and now you're a radical. Unlike you, I've never been a communist and I haven't benefited from politics. Tell them you didn't have any.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14789	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14790	First, I'd like to answer to Mr. Shormaz. If you'd read my statements, I said I didn't trust Vojislav Kostunica, even if he was sitting on the stove and the money was coming out of his mouth, I wouldn't believe what he was saying. I now inform you that last night I had talks with your president and that he firmly promised me that no state official would ever sign anything concerning Kosovo and Metohija, which would mean a change. Now I'm telling you the truth, I told him last night that I was going to bring it out in public and that I wouldn't stay here if I believed something the public might not believe in. So Vojislav Kostunica told me last night, as president of the strongest opposition and only one, he said, opposition parties in Serbia, and which is true, that he will never sign, not only him, but no official, anything concerning Kosovo and Metohija, which would mean a change in the border and thus prejudge independence, sovereignty, independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Now I'm telling you that I trust him because I've informed all of you, so if he cheats on me, he cheats on all of you, he cheats on all of Serbia. Mr. Vlaovic, it's no shame someone was a communist. It's a disease that, let me finish, you could get sick and you didn't have to. I've never been a communist in my life, never, and all my friends and acquaintances know it, all of Serbia knows it. I don't know where you got that information. If you tell Kostunica he was a communist, tell me, as far as I know, we were not the only ones in the Communist Union. And Leila Ruzdic was never a communist. I'm not ashamed of my friends who were communists. I never asked anyone in the SRS if he was in the Union of Communists or not. Our founder, founder, our President Vojislav Seselj was a member of the Union of Communists, so what, did it bother him to beat you all in turn whenever he appeared in the elections. For that reason, let's clear up with concern for Kosovo. When you convince me that this DSS member Todorovic, who is the head of the Kosovo-Pomorava County, as he is called, Milorad, condemned Svilanovic at the meeting and the crisis group for the Balkans, and whose member he is, let's see if you can convince me that this member of yours is concerned about Kosovo and Metohija and will fight, and he can discuss everything with Svilanovic, I accept that you are taking care of Kosovo and Metohija as well. When you put on the agenda the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, and it depends on you whether or not it will be, when you put on the agenda a single resolution that we will adopt here together, even if what Kostunica promised me yesterday, to make every politician, every Serbian citizen must never sign and accept at any cost the independence and independence of Kosovo and Metohija, then I will trust you. I am not a fighter for Kosovo and Metohija who would like Kosovo and Metohija to disappear and remain that I fought. I have scars on my soul because the fight for Kosovo and Metohija failed thanks to your helpers and thanks to you who have not condemned the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija and... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The signing of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement. No political party in Serbia, ruling or opposition, has stood up against the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, except for the Serbian Radical Party. None were against the assembly decision here to accept the agreement, except for the SRS. At that time, you condemned us to be war-scrapers, to be afraid of peace, we will not be able to deal in politics, we love war, let other people's children die, and we grow in popularity. When the consequences of that are felt, we now want to help you further. No one has convicted, I repeat once more, that no one but the SRS...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14791	Please, no throwing, and please, Mr. Nikolic, bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14792	I think this is a dialogue. Could not close temporary folder: %s
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14793	Yeah, but I run the Rules of Procedure and I don't accept dialogue from the O.R. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14794	No one has a dialogue with you. You don't have to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14795	Of course, that is why I do not accept your dialogue, because I do not participate in the dialogue, but I respect the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Be kind enough to finish your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14796	Mr. Markovicu, this is where the representatives of the two serious political parties are conducting the dialogue, really serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14797	It's perfectly fine, you have three minutes to do it with a pay phone or in a hallway unlimited. Be kind and end up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14798	When we move on to non-serious political parties, you get involved freely. This is serious now. So I hope we're clear on this. Make the speaker of the assembly put on the agenda a debate on Kosovo and Metohija, and I will admit that you are taking care of Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14799	Please, we will not discuss constitutional provisions that clearly define that no one can do things. Replication to what? To the presentation of a gentleman, to the mention of the DSS? Excuse me, you used the right to conduct the dialogue. Here you go. You're not, well, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14800	The members of the International Crisis Group for the Balkans are, in turn, Giuliano Amato, Karl Bilt, Jean-Lik Dean, Kemal Dervis etc. The only name mentioned in Serbia is Dr Goran Svilanovic, so Milorad Todorovic, as a member of the DSS, has nothing to do with members and the international commission for the Balkans. The real truth is that he once hosted Mr. Carl Bilt when he was in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't see anything disputed here. You, Mr. Nikolic, as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, met with all those people who came from abroad. I do not see it controversial that Mr. Milorad Todorovic had a meeting with Karl Bilt or any other international official, especially if I know the political views of Mr. Todorovic, who are also the political views of the DSS. The constitutional obligation of all of us, as MPs, is to advocate the immutability of borders, to safeguard Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia. That will also be discussed in the future, and this whole debate on the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, on the Kumanovo Agreement, etc. Reminds me of late-night news on Croatian television, where it was lamented over Croatia's fate for the award of the Order of Drazi Mihailovic by former US President Harry Truman. It was also said that Harry Truman was uninformed and partisan first fighters and bearers were brought to the studio; he returned to some period, in 1944, 1945 and 1946. Then I saw how sad it all looked. If we weren't aware of how sad it all seemed in the mid-1990s in Serbia, when we were more concerned with the past and less about the present and the future, now I just saw how sad it all looks. We don't want to deal with sad things from the past, we don't want to do some dirty stories. Serbia is looking into the future, Serbia is heading towards a European future; Serbia has found partners in Brussels for it, a positive feasibility study is only one proof of that. I hope such evidence will be much more future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14801	The People's Messenger Bojan Kekić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Radisa Ilic. Six minutes is available to the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14802	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, speaking of this law, which we can say is a system law when it comes to tourism, I will take the opportunity, first of all, to make a certain comment, given where I come from, and that is Braničevski County, which has a number of comparative advantages that concern tourism and everything else. My address to the minister will primarily refer to the tourism development strategy, which he praised yesterday, which was brought in 1997, in words that it was not bad, but perhaps the time distance made it a little different. To mention that Braničevski and Pomorava County's Chamber of Commerce spent six or seven months working on a document called the tourism development strategy of the two districts. In order not to enter the commentary of the law, given that the SPS will surely support this law, I will define myself, first of all, for that area relating to nautical activity, given that the Branič district is passing and the Danube River, that the three municipalities - Povorec, Golubac and Gradisture are firmly bound to the Danube, that in the framework of nautical activity in the Tourism Act are defined as a basic postulate, if I may say, positive-legal regulations, and that what has happened on the ground, or what has not happened all these years, certainly has not been defined. By believing in the Minister of Transport and also in the Minister of Tourism, I hope that there will be very soon the adoption of positive legal regulations, i.e. certain rules to define this. This is particularly important, given all the conditions that exist now in the Danube, and this is the situation where individual marinas, which were made by the residents themselves (I am familiar with opportunities in the municipality of Golubac), the residents of Vinac and Usi, within the framework of this nautical activity in the reception facilities no one maintains. Is this supposed to be held by ′′Đerdap′′ within the framework of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, or local self-government, municipalities, or is it, if it is related to nautical activity, the matter and local tourism organisations, and thus, the Ministry of Tourism? I believe that, by seizing out of these subsidies provided for in the budget of the Republic of Serbia for the financing of tourism enterprises, it might also be the pioneering venture of the Ministry of Tourism, that even if these two marinas were in the original state in which they were, that they were illuminated and certainly around 4,000 people, who are staying in these settlements as weekenders, would have the conditions to develop nautical tourism. Knowing the situation of the economy, and personally I was convinced that many people from the area went fishing, I would ask the Minister if he could be with the Ministry of Agriculture, because we didn't have a chance to hear the Minister of Agriculture, find a way to reduce so-called. Industrial fishing permits, because the ordinary person who eats pays 40,000 a year to set up nets (it's in Vinci, which is a little lower than 70,000), so I don't think we'll be able to determine that sports or fishing tourism, as well as anything else. When we move on to the amendments, I will report to ask a few questions; I am convinced that the minister knows that, so I would like, if he can, to answer our question – what about the Black Summit facility, which has not been working since 2000, and he would certainly represent, just so that my people from Žaguvica, as well as Bor, are not angry at the quickest time, Kopalnik in small. What is also characteristic of the development of tourism is that border municipalities also have good co-operation with municipalities from countries bordering us, because the idea that, in the context of sports and any tourism, no positive legal regulations have been defined will lead to certain interference. I noted that there is no gas station in the Danube, where nautical activity could meet its basic needs, so I think that the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Transport should discuss some tender for locations, given that much of the land belongs to the Ministry of Traffic, or otherwise define it. When it comes to Braničevsky County, it is also characteristic that through local tourism organisations, which are formed, certain orientations should still go directly from the tourism ministry. I haven't seen a clear regulation that the tax to be paid will be returned to those areas where it is collected. In this way, it would certainly be possible, through the control of this fund, and how good resources could be collected, and that the areas they give for tourism in their midst would be invested by certain funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14803	The People's Messenger Radiša Ilic has the word, and let Ivana Kovacevic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14804	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all the laws that have been passed in this assembly over the past year have been based on clearly stated directives, regulations, laws and decisions of the EU or its institutions. This law was not spared either, but in this case it was not overly stressed, and why would the government of the Republic of Serbia get a positive assessment of the feasibility study, so now to take a little breath. The tourism law is imposed as a necessary law, which prevents from considering the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, a report by survey committees on various affairs that seem to concern no one in the ruling structure of today's impoverished DOS. So we need to catch up with Europe and in the sphere of tourism. This, perhaps, also requires the adoption of all that this famous study of feasibility brings. And speaking of feasibility, this government was celebrated by performing on the streets of the flag workers, Jugormedia, Venčaca, "NIS", "JAT", drinking sellers, Kalemar, Malinar, Visnar, and has entered the history of the modern Serbian state as the first government against which the foresters rebelled. What is tourism in Serbia based on today? What may be perhaps the most profitable and more prospective thing in our Republic right now is Banish tourism. But what kind? Except for three or four spas, the rest are just abandoned townhouses, with a half-century-old infrastructure that only one who has to go to. There is no investment in the state, and its interest should be primarily a greater inflow of funds achieved than the paid tourist services. But it will not be the case in some future strategy of this government, which, fortunately, will not rule Serbia for long. Here, on one simple occasion, let me show you what our spas are like. A few weeks ago, I went through the Mataruska Banja, when I visited Serbian schools in Kosovo and Metohija with a group of MPs from the Serbian Radical Party. That way in the center of the spa, the dug streets, the impact holes, the asphalt in the rags, which would be said, would not be found in the west on any of the most remote forest roads. It is easy for us to organise tourist organisations, form funds, determine fees and fees, but we have nowhere to bring foreign tourists. Someone from the west, from the EU, won't come to some spa, drop his wheel when it hits one of the many holes in the center of the spa, and be harassed by receptionists with no language; bushes and weeds are around the bathroom, restaurants, to the hotel itself. The guest who brought the money to spend it here doesn't like it. Also, many springs of healing water are in latent danger of some smart-ass from power not thinking of selling them, i.e. that concessions on the use of that natural good. We have many examples, when it comes to drinking water sources in Serbia, in which the state refers to this natural wealth. Hotels in Serbia, except for a few in the well-known tourist mountain centres, are in poor condition, starting with outdated buildings, inventory, business losses, and down to total neglect by both guests and local self-government, which they see only needless waste of funds. A large number of hotels have been privatised over the last two years, where the most damaged countries and workers are. Let's just take a traveller's example and see how this company that's known beyond the borders of our country has been destroyed. Our cultural heritage is underexploited. It is usually about old medieval cities, namely ruins, where there are neither roads nor prospectuses to which tourists would refer. More significant places from our rich historical past are usually redecorated when the celebration of jubilee is 50, 100, or 200 years from the existence or any other event. The only thing to praise is our preserved churches, monasteries, old churches, out-of-work cells, which are well-preserved and dedicated to the monasticity of the Serbian Orthodox Church. But instead of repaying them because they work for their people, Dinkic introduced monks and nuns to pay mandatory health insurance. That's how we care about our national and cultural heritage. More of them seem to care for the Sejillas, for the ′′Erikson′′, for who will buy the "Knjiz Milos" than for what has kept us alive in these areas. Article 29 tells tourism organisations that they can be set up by local self-government units, i.e. the AP. So it's left to the municipality to assess; let's say, who doesn't have additional funding from the budget simply can't form a tourist organisation. There is no one relevant who will unite municipal tourist resources and create a tourism development strategy, and thus attract tourists with interesting offer of cultural and historical monuments, natural sites, traditional considerations and so on. More significant places from our rich historical past are usually redecorated, which doesn't lead to anything, given that it's worth something, which is how the state should treat it throughout the period. A lot of remarks, i.e. amendments, SRS MPs also had a section – The work of travel agencies or tourist agencies. This is exactly where the biggest problems arise when all of this is being done in a suspected reputation agency, i.e. in collaboration with someone who heads groups of workers, students or pensioners for a tourist trip. We've had a lot of examples, and we've been able to hear and see in the media what's happening as a result of the lack of monitoring and non-control of many agencies that are very easy to get money from gullible citizens. Remember only those tourist agencies that organized the departures of groups of workers abroad for employment, and then it turns out that there's no one waiting for them in another country; then the litigation starts, and it's proven to be who tricked them. Also, you remember probably our children's school trips to Hungary, Greece, where children are. parents paid for quality accommodation, and there they got some kind of barracks or something. The teachers pretend they're not guilty, the agency's representative usually gets lost and nobody gets hurt. What has so far been characteristic of tourist trips, especially student excursions, was the obvious intervention of some professors for individual agencies. All we can think about is writing in the press the last few months about it. Those teachers who rebel because of their students ’ mistreatment usually fall into school principal’s disfavor and end their careers at that school very quickly. What does it mean in Article 65 of the non-execution or incomplete execution of tourist travel services? So someone can only get the difference as a compensation for spending a vacation, instead of a hotel room with air conditioning, in a bungalow oronula, where it melts at 40 degrees, and it's possible that a lizard runs over your feet while you're sleeping. On the other hand, one can get ill with bad water or unhygiene. Who's gonna pay someone a ruined vacation? Such agencies should be closed if this happens again and again. In the organization of school excursions, nature schools and such problems arise, which are not yet correctly defined by law, especially when it comes to education workers' journals that participate in them and thus increase the price of the arrangement. It is also necessary to introduce an obligation that a licensed tourist guide monitors larger excursions, not, as so far, to be a road leader. This would improve the quality of the arrangement, it would also paint individual travel agencies and travel organisers, and would also contribute to greater employment of tourist workers, i.e. persons whose tourism is a profession. I would especially now stick to the section – Specific services of special types of tourism, where individual services are listed by name. Hunting tourism, as a very profitable type of tourism, is very little processed here, more precisely, almost by no means, just so much to mention. Hunting wealth provides us with extraordinary conditions for the development of this kind of tourism. The only thing that needs to be coordinated are the Public Enterprise ′′Srbijasume′′, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Ministry of Science and Environment Protection. A good part of the property, i.e. the infrastructure will probably be privatised. It is known that this public company has already released a large part of the machinery as an inert ballast for the total revenue achieved. Since a large number of hunting sites, hunting resorts, mountain hotels owned by ′′Serbiashume′′, it is not difficult to conclude that this resource will also be quickly privatised. Repeated is the old, many times proven, radical story – where the money is, there is also the G17 plus. Through the company ′′Srbijasum′′ individuals will get their hands on very valuable tourist facilities, at very favourable prices, and the story is already well known. As for congress tourism, it may be more said by representatives of those political parties who are paying for expensive multi-day party seminars in Kopalnik, Zlatibor or Palic. Rural tourism has fallen to the lowest branches. The peasants first destroyed this and that DOS power by importing agricultural products, expensive agricultural repromation and loans. Most of 'em were talking about which used plug-in machine and nothing else. These same peasants are now breaking their heads on how to pay Dinkic six figures for compulsory pension and disability insurance, and at the end of the day, it is not their idea to turn to rural tourism and take new loans for that purpose. At a time when the state offers far lower prices of raspberries, cherry, vegetables, fruits, cereals, as it is in the EU, peasants are simply left to themselves. In the end, I'd say something about nautical tourism. Nautical tourism is one of the most profitable tourism branches in the world. The Danube region in Serbia itself, if it were to be put into operation, would cover about 2,500km of waterway. Nearly 2,000 translators should be built, where boaters could leave their water facilities and tours, with the involvement of local tourist organisations, attractive and cultural historical sites on land. When the state does, it remains to be seen. But it is an irrefutable fact – apart from agriculture and tourism, Serbia cannot start anything else, in order to improve significantly and stabilise its position in the countries in the environment, as well as in the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14805	The People's Messenger Ivana Kovacevic has the word, and let the Messenger Anita Beretic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14806	Mr. President, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the tourism law. There has been a question here whether it is necessary to now pass this law when there are many laws to be passed in this House. Party G17 plus thinks it is. It is very important to pass the tourism law. Why? I'll explain. First, order is being introduced into this area. The rights and obligations are precisely defined, and with a special emphasis on ensuring passenger rights. Secondly, what is important, tourism should be observed in the light of the economy. During the 1990 ’ s, all the things that have happened have led to the fact that today, in many branches of production, in many companies, we have represented outdated technologies. All this reduces our country's competitiveness, and that is precisely why we are thinking about some new developmental directions. Global economic development shows that the world's tertiary sector in the overall economy plays a growing role, especially when we talk about the tertiary sector in the field of tourism. If we look at development potentials in our country, we'll all conclude together, that's for sure, that we have good potential for tourism development. We have healthy water, quality spas, many cultural facilities that we can offer, and yet that area is not sufficiently developed. Of course, we all know that our infrastructure isn't developed enough, but this is the right time to start thinking about it, so we're going in the right direction to develop it all. I want to put today's accent on rural tourism and small, undeveloped municipalities that deal exclusively with agriculture, and they have a chance to deal with rural tourism, and this may be a chance to survive our villages. In its pre-election programme, the G17 Group also mentioned various types of tourism that should be developed; I mean mountain, nautical, student, youth, congress, banish tourism, but also ethnic and cultural tourism. If we're talking about ethnic tourism and cultural tourism, I need to look back at Banat. When I mention Banat, I must mention the catastrophic floods that have occurred. Fortunately, the government has come to meet and every day they are in the field, which I have personally convinced myself, and I hope that they will keep their promises to the end. But these floods showed, in fact, how poor Banat was, because it was not known or ignored; it was shown how old the houses were. The people in Banat are the most agricultural people, and Banat is actually the real potential for the development of cultural and ethnic tourism, because there are many destinations, many sights, for which many do not know. I'll mention some, say, the Imperial Bar, the lake in the White Church, the Rusand spa, numerous castles, many events that take place in many places. In particular, in Serbia alone we have Đura Jaksic's home house, we have a church from the 18th century where the original iconostases were taken by Đura and Castle Kaštel. Why isn't this developed enough, why isn't it used enough? I repeat, it is small municipalities, which are hardly able to develop tourism by their own means. In this context, I must commend the rural development programme that exists within the Ministry of Agriculture and which also provides funding for the development of tourism in rural areas. The question arises which municipality even applied for and who created the project and tried to get those funds, because there are already some funds. Furthermore, the law before us in Articles 16 and 48 provides for the provision of funds from the budget, as well as the establishment of a tourism development fund. There will be a possibility for small municipalities to compete and speed up the development of tourism. It is also good that there will be a tourism organisation in Serbia that will help marketing activities and help design the programmes in small municipalities, but what we must say, municipalities must establish their tourist alliances, must perceive their potential and initiate those programmes, because nobody can do it for them. The tourism law defines very precisely, let's say, what services the rural household can provide, so it clearly says it can issue rooms, organise various activities, organise a tasting of domestic food and drinks, as well as the sale of handiwork. I would point out that it is good for farmers, because it will get a new market for selling its products, but it is also good for women's associations (there are almost every village in Serbia, Vojvodina and Banat), where they will be able to provide additional income for their family through the sale of their handiwork. I think a lot of people might be wondering if this is possible. I'm saying it is. Let us take an example of Hungary, which has just made a real boom in rural tourism in the last few years. The people of Budapest go to the country every weekend, where they taste domestic food, drink and enjoy fresh air, so I'm saying it's also possible for us. I know there's skeptics, too, but I think we all need to roll our sleeves together and use all the resources we can get. In any case, there is a rural development fund, which I have already mentioned, there is this fund that, when the law is passed, will be available and formed, and there are the funds provided by the Ministry of Finance under the self-employment programme, which can also be used to develop tourism in areas declared touristic. Anyway, the G17 plus party is always full of optimism and we think it can. That's why we're going to vote for this bill, and I don't see a good reason why the rest of us don't vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14807	The word is by MP Anita Beretic, not there. The word is made by the MP Ivan Zivadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14808	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, there is a decent law on tourism, which was prepared months ago, but unfortunately because of the extensive work of the Assembly, we were forced several times to withdraw it from the procedure. Fortunately, Serbia's citizens, this law will begin to apply at the end of this month and will bring several benefits not only to tourists coming from our country, but also to tourists from abroad. Finally, this law will correct the injustice that tourists coming from abroad pay significantly more services prices, I mean hotel services, than it does with domestic tourists, making discrimination among tourists and leading to a significant reduction in the arrival of foreign tourists. In some countries that have problems with a small number of tourists, there is even a practice that foreign tourists pay significantly lower prices than domestic tourists. What this law still predicts is the existence of a tourist region. So far, tourism activity has been organised locally, at the level of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina, and now, by some geographical principle, it will be able to form tourist regions in areas where there are more than 500,000 nights per year. As MEP G17 plus from Užica, I am very looking forward to this idea, because I already see that the first tourist region will form in western Serbia, a tourist region that will include Užice, Zlatibor, Tara and our new tourist child – the area of Wet Gora, which is very promising. The law provides for a new organisation of tourist agencies. Most of you have probably had a chance to travel either through Serbia or through domestic agencies in recent years and to see what chaos exists in tourist organisations. If you look at the tourist offer, if you look at specific arrangements for Egypt, the Czech Republic, Spain, France, anywhere, you will see that tourist agencies have different prices for these arrangements, but also that different tourist agencies are one airport tax, Belgrade, Roman or Czech, they charge different prices, although they are some standard prices. You will see that tourist agencies additionally charge some services that should not be charged; who travels in the Middle East, Africa is often faced with a problem of paying some tips, which is about 10, 20, 30 or 40 euros, and people are very uncomfortable when local guides from these countries come to them, and our tourist guides are being made foolish. The tourism law will favour some more tourist services. According to information provided by the minister a few months ago, there are about 800 places in rural tourism in Serbia. Unfortunately, we do not have the sea, but, as you have already heard from many of our fellow MPs from both the opposition and the government, we are favored by Banish tourism, mountain tourism, the problem that exists about the disorganization of tourism in the Danube. Serbia is a country that has 51% of the village population and transition is likely to hit the most people living in the country. There are very interesting tourist resorts in rural areas to be used. I would mention several very interesting tourist destinations in the Zlatibor region, i.e. in the pleasure area, such as: Wekra Gora, the village of Potpeć with Potpečko cave, Ribasevina and Lužnička dolina, a large number of places on Zlatibor, such as Sirogojna, Stepić cave, waterfall, etc. But we have a problem in Serbia that when someone comes to Belgrade on a plane and goes after Serbia, they find very bad roads and a road signalling problem. This law will also provide for a new tourist signalling. I think we should look up to our neighbours of the Macedonians and Bulgarians, who also write with Cyrillic. Also, in Greeks, which have a specific alphabet, which in each table has a pathway in their own language, but also a sign in English. When you leave, for example. from Belgrade to Užice you will find no sign of anything in English, and you will, for example, be in Cačka. find an indication where it says – Tito's Užice, although that city has not been called for about 15 years. So, for 15 years, no one's looked at that board. It is necessary to make new tourist guides, I have already seen that in our bookstores there are some guides in English that are very extensive, and it is necessary to further organize people in tourist associations. I think there is room for all of us as MPs and representatives of the people to go through villages and people to explain why there is a need for additional organisation in villages through tourist associations, where people through some training will be able to come up with new knowledge, but also to contact the relevant financiers who would invest in rural tourism and, of course, help them to exploit their capacities as much as possible. The G17 plus parliamentary group will vote in favour of the tourism law. We invite you to also vote in favour of the tourism law and to get to the next item of the agenda as soon as possible where concessions for highways will be voted, because unless Serbia makes highways, tourism will not be worth it. If the road is not made in Serbia from Belgrade to Užica, we will lose all of Western Serbia, and that is not our goal, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14809	Since MP Rodoljub Gačević is not there, the word has been made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. Mr. Stanimirovic, won't you? Thank you. Since none of the Serbian Radical Party MPs... They're coming? The electronic voting system shows very clearly that you are not here. Mr. Gačević is here. Here you are, and I hope that Mr Tomislav Penezic, Jovan Daja, Zoran Antić and Momcilo Duvnjak will come in in the meantime, because they are the next speakers. I ask you not to play democracy, but to respect the basic rules of conduct and our rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14810	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for some passive landscapes, such as Central Polimlje, the area from which I come, tourism may be the only economic branch that has perspective, a future that can develop and be the basis for the development of the whole region. Polimlje and Potari are God-given for the development of tourism of all kinds, nautical, hunting tourism, etc. Natural beauty, snowy mountains, clear rivers, Sopotnica waterfalls, the Apple Tourist Park and other areas attracted tourists not only then Yugoslavia but also Europe. The conditions for tourism development are all these natural beauty, untouched nature, clean air, healthy food and other things that can be given in a tourist offer. On the holy waters of Lima rests 70 old Serbian monasteries from the days of Nemanjic and before Nemanjic. The Miseva monastery is certainly one of those, which takes first place, not only in the White Angel, but also in the fact that there was the first Serbian press, which rested the bridge of the Serbian saint and the enlightener of the Holy Sava. They're slightly less famous monasteries like, say, David's. The Duke of Emperor Dusan Vratko, in a nation known as South Bogdan, and his nine Yugoslavs are resting right there. The monasteries of the region were something that gave the opportunity to develop tourism, especially if it is known that the Central Polimlje, Dabarska zupa and Budimlje were a space that inhabited the first Serb tribes without talking about these historical monuments and features that the valley of Central Polimlje was filled with. When viewed from that side, tourism should have long been a tradition in this area. However, this area does not have a tourism organisation yet, without talking about the formation of tourist regions and the like. We will be the promoters to live in these parts and to form this tourist offer. It could have been done a long time ago, back in the communist era. Why wasn't that done? For the simple reason it was necessary to restore these old Serbian monasteries, and old Serb monuments. In the environment as it was then, all politicians were afraid to do so, fearing the labels of great Serbian nationalism. They knew that with this label is the end of a political career, and not only a political career, but it is most likely to get a stay on the Gol Island, a tourist stay. Therefore, all of these were reasons that it was not long ago and in time developed this tourist organization, nor was any tourist offer made, regardless of the exceptional conditions of nature and that they may be such that they are not even Europe. As I said earlier, Polimlje and Potarje have such natural beauty as Europe certainly does not have. I'd just like to say some other things here that would be significant when it comes to the development of tourism. First of all, I would say, that these relapses of the past, from times of communism, avoid the restoration of these monasteries, that this is a cultural heritage that is equally important to all citizens of that region, regardless of what religion they belong to, so I invite them to do everything they can to restore this national cultural heritage, because it is common, just as it is common and language, history, anyway, everything but faith. These preconditions are precisely the ones that need to create good conditions for tourism, and tourism should be a basis, an incentive force, a generator for the economic development of the whole region. Article 12 of this law says it is necessary to form a tourist region, a thousand beds and 150,000 overnight stays. I couldn't comment on a thousand beds in terms of not a lot, not a bit, but 150,000 nights is big, because it's practically 50% capacity use. It is important here to have capacities and, therefore, I don't mind being 1,000 beds, but 150,000 overnight stays are much in the present conditions, and in some conditions developed tourism is already solid. Secondly, I believe that in Article 56 it is undefined and undefined, that it should be specified, when it is already spoken about the knowledge of foreign language, and that it is precisely said which world language, that it is not here to refer to the knowledge of Croatian language or some other languages and ex Yugoslavia. Practically, it would mean that everyone meets that condition.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14811	The word of the Messenger of the people is Tomislav Penezic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Jovan Daja.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14812	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS is always for good laws and respect for these laws, but it is not in agreement with the signing of laws and adapting to European conditions. That's why, as someone who's got a certificate that can grade, I don't have the right here to give a numerical grade, I can only give a descriptive assessment – you're not doing a good job. You don't do well to prescribe laws. Since the law is bad, I'm still going to talk about it, but I would stick to some problems that cause Serbia, especially the area from which I come. You know that Priboj, Prijepolje, Nova Varoš, Sjesnica will not count, the pearls of tourism are surrounded by: Tara, Zlatibor, Zlatar, from the southern side of the Frog, and on the west side is Republika Srpska. So somewhere in the middle, in this valley that no one notices from that height, there's a mine of tourist offers that no one sees. The war and the Pribojska Banja, for example, serve only those who come to promote, give good and fiery speeches, promise the people that they will give them this or that, that the spa will be in a function that needs to be done, and then some go away and cross and light the candle in the monastery of St. Nicholas, some antichrists bypass the monastery, go away and never come there again. I have prepared something similar to my predecessor, to talk about another kind of tourism that can offer our region, which is our region, which is, above all, fishing and hunting tourism, nautical tourism, and the kind of tourism that will probably be spoken about later, which is health tourism. Unlike my colleague, I brought here a photocopy, a picture of the monastery's schedule. In the last discussion, I said that this neighborhood of Metohija is small, that I don't read you all the significant monasteries. I can only tell you that we are so few away from Zlatibor that it is one of the most important monasteries – I will take what poets say to be the middle of the road between Zlatibor and Priboj. A little effort should be made to connect all these cities that I counted with the Uvac monastery, and then to Uzic and to reduce that share by 50 kilometers. However, in times past, when money was paid and when it was possible, someone did not want to work on tourism in the area, or I am talking specifically about the spa. You may not even know that this spa exists, but I'll tell you that you'll meet her when you need it. In the end, I'll end up with one message. FAP used to work, and that neighborhood was growing since FAP. It was a giant, which is now on its knees. When nothing could have been done at the spa, all that was left was what was then, maybe a little built up and nothing more. Let me just tell you what the potential is. I'm gonna have to read it from a little paper. The hot springs of the spa are 36-37 degrees Celsius; there are only four small pools, which were almost unusable until recently, because even during the bath, the treatment of patients in the pool fell from the roof, which collapsed. Furthermore, what others would use with extraordinaryness, and we don't know, is that the strength of the source is 70 liters per second, and the drills in which there are approximately 300 liters of water per second. This water is not only for the treatment of rheumatotic and skin diseases, it can be bottled and used to treat internal organs. Perhaps it would be interesting to tell you that in that spa, which may be unknown to you, I repeat again, and St. Sava treated tired and ill feet. Legend has it that King Urosh the First, called the Brave, was in the spa, or at these springs, bathed, had a skin condition. When he left, the toponyms that are still standing were created: so, the first place he felt improvement, that's Kratovo, that's some scavengers that appear on the body; the second place was Rutoshi, they started stealing, they say, they're going, which means they're getting sick; the third place, a very short space of maybe 20 kilometers, they're gone, and Radoinja was created. Let me introduce you to the region that there are four artificial lakes in the area, accumulations; these are Shadow, Kokin Brod, Radoinjsko and Potpečko Lake. I hope I've convinced you to come and visit that neighborhood, especially the minister. It's not popular for me to address the minister right now, but I'd like to ask the minister for some attention. Obviously, the minister is persistent and won't turn around. These days the association of fishermen, sports fishermen "Mladica" from Priboj, who is a user of the Lim fishing area and all of these lakes, made an appeal. This is very important and needs to be heard by the minister. The lake is being cleaned these days, i.e. the water is being released from Lake Potpeć. You know that this is the only way – spa, monastery and lakes – to survive that end because industry is on its knees. Water is released from the lake to clean the bars. Some of the officials addressed by this alliance say – is electricity or fish more important to you? I think it's possible to do it in another way. All the ministries were sent this memo to save the river, so I wouldn't quote here what they wrote, this poor thing and a warning; don't be surprised when there's a living shield and when the fishermen take HE Potpec, that they don't let it be done. So as not to cause a scene, I ask all the ministries that have spoken to the fishing society to do something. Let the divers clear the bars so that the fish fund stays, so that the fauna doesn't die in this lake, because then there won't be any tourism. These memos have ministers... I see I've been ignored by the minister, it doesn't matter. They also have a memo from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and, not to mention the full names, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, and possibly the Ministry of Tourism. Now I'm going to tell you something educational. Since all of you, pardon not all of you, most of you, middle-aged people, come to Pribojska Banje and spend 10 days, because the rheumatism is coming safely but slowly, so if it doesn't help you, local self-government and I will personally pay you the costs. If it helps you, help develop Banish tourism in Priboj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14813	Thank you very much, Mr. Penezie. We'll make a deal on the date. The word of the messenger of the people is John the Day, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Goran the Prince. Did he give up, too, you don't know? Let the People's Messenger Goran Knezevic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Daya.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the White Church, from the tourist resort. The White Church is an underdeveloped, poor municipality, but it has huge potential for tourism development. It is known to host nine white-christian lakes, where sports tourism can be organised on water, nautical tourism, fishing tourism. Near the Danube, fishing tourism, water sports tourism, and the bringing of tourists, both domestic and foreign, also enables the White Church. I'd like to mention a deliblatte cave that allows hunting tourism, which is not foreseen by this tourism law. The deliblatic pedestrian has a rich flora and fauna, as well as high savages. The deliblatic sandman is famous for the trophies of deer savages, deer savages and wild boars. The White Church cannot develop itself in this direction because it is poor. Of these residence fees provided for by this law, there will not be enough funding unless the Ministry of Tourism has singled out financial resources and helped develop tourism in the White Church. We see that you have allocated some funds to this law, so I ask you whether small environments, like the White Church, will be able to compete equally with their projects to obtain these funds, or whether the environments where tourism is at some higher level will be privileged. It would be important for small communities, such as the White Church, to help financially and professionally to develop tourism in these small environments evenly and evenly, as it happens in Serbia's centres. The White Church is known for its carnival of flowers, for its tourist manifestation of the capture of Bessi catfish, as well as Vršac for its grape harvest. I think we can go the way of tourism development in the White Church and that the White Church can develop touristically, but we need financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14815	Thank you. So, MP Goran Knezevic is not here. MP Zoran Antic is not here. The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go, Mr. Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14816	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs are having a principle debate today on the proposal for a tourism law. The subject is good, but the law is bad. I'll tell you why. Serbian citizens are the biggest tourists, have left the country, lost their jobs under this democratic authority, in search of bread travels around the world. There are them on all continents, and most of all in our future community of Europe. The tourist facilities are empty and there is no, unfortunately, who can work, so I wonder who will plan to develop tourism, conditions and how to perform the work of travel and tourist agencies, catering and other services in tourism, when our young people leave the country. This is all in Article 1 of the proposed law. We need to adapt this law to the young, present and future generations, not to say that we have defined it in accordance with the European Union Council Directive on organised travel, rest and circular travel. The draft law in Article 6 states that integrated planning is provided in the context of a strategy for spatial development and a strategy for the development of tourism in the Republic of Serbia. The document should be brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, doesn't this state have this document, is Serbia from today a state, have we forgotten that we have hundreds of hotels, motels, churches and monasterys from the Middle Ages, Zlatibor, Jasrabac, Fruska Mountain, Divcibar, corridor 10, spas, water rivers and others? If the legislator didn't know about it, he had to ask the Serbian Radical Party, which in this area has a defined strategic development of Serbia; money should not be spent on this strategy, but include Serbian radicals to show how it is done and how it can be moved forward. That is why, when it comes to areas of importance for tourism and their sustainable use, it is as if it is ashamed to point out anything Serbia can in front of the world to boast. When it comes to this in Article 8. The bill should be more precisely explained and defined what these are, out of importance for Europe, the spatial-cultural and historical continents and the sights. This general provision should be clarified and incorporated into the law, for the reason that this will be given in future by some tenders to use economic operators. Are we going to turn these complexes of Studenica, Ravanica, Kalenić into business entities? I'm asking for an explanation from the Minister and the Proposer. The Serbian Radical Party and its MPs warn that the provisions of the law hit the Serbian citizens' pockets. Do we need a special tourism development fund besides the government, the competent ministry? Fund provisions should be deleted from the law. We have a fund for Serbia's development and it is enough for him to take care of the development of tourism, not -- the new director, the new service, the new impose on citizens. When it comes to the spatial organisation of tourism, I also point to a proposal, an opinion. It is said – tourist region. The word "region" is of Latin origin, according to Vuk Karadzic, it is an area; ′′ the Serbian words that the world understands you;". A tourist area, which would cover today's Serbia's districts. However, it must be complicated for the promoter, not simply. Therefore, the word "nautical" tourism should be replaced by the word "ship"; the word "animator", which is of foreign origin, should be replaced in the law by the word "starter". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a tourism law has been established by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, SRS MPs rightly wonder how much the Ministry of Education and Sports participates in drawing up this bill. Will this law stop student field trip, recreational class, excursions and so forth? Where are the current incentives for organized transportation and travel of students and students, for accommodation and nutrition, or will we continue in the humble and empty pocket of parents? How much is the Ministry of Health's participation in the development of Banjsko and health tourism, recreation and rehabilitation of the sick? Is there also a category of certain stimulating measures? How much will the Ministry of Agriculture stimulate rural households to develop rural tourism and stay at individual households? How much will the Ministry of Faith, SPC and others invest and create conditions that church facilities are trained to accommodate young people and others in these facilities? How much is the Ministry of Culture today and tomorrow ready to place numerous monuments from the history of our people in the role of raising and education young people in the development of tourism? This is just a small number of questions that the tourism law proposal does not provide the right answer. That's why he doesn't have our support. Thank you for your attention and goodbye, when the SRS will propose a much better tourism law than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14817	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a tourism law, although even now we have a law that is not so bad, which, with a few changes, could continue to be applied. The fact is that this law has allowed some qualitative changes that we can support, but most importantly, this law will not solve problems in tourism. It will not solve the problems of tourism businesses, as this law is insufficient to solve these problems. In addition to this law, we had to have, already mentioned in the law, a tourism development strategy. We had to discuss it, too, when tourism was put on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament. Given the fact that one-third of the night stays in Serbia's spas, it was very important that we also have a law on spas, and we don't have one today, unfortunately. What may be most important in this whole business is to redefine the Privatisation Act itself, which so far has done nothing to bring the tourism companies that are privatizing into the situation to function. On the contrary, we have come to the point that none of the tourism companies that are privatized under this law today are functioning and none of these privatisations can be identified as successful. The importance of tourism is exceptional for Serbia's economy. It was an opportunity to make it possible through this law to reduce the external trade deficit, which is extremely large, to achieve a certain foreign exchange inflow, because we have a much greater number of departures from the country than the arrival of foreigners in our country. Obviously, one of the great financial potentials has been spilling out of this country and so far it has not been, we are in agreement with the promoter, enough hearing for tourism, but, as I said a little while, I don't think we're going to get a better situation now. It is an opportunity to promote Serbia through tourism, to bring down all the prejudices that exist on Serbia and eventually attract foreign investors, it is a huge flaw in our economy, to enable those potential guests and to present our economy, and through the development strategy, if it is comparative and if co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, possibly for capital investments, to have a significant impact on Serbia's regional development. Even though we do not have a strategy right now, it would be possible through tourism, which drives and agriculture, perhaps primarily organic agriculture, that even undeveloped municipalities have better status in this country and that at least in some way come up with the necessary income and thus prevent migration from more underdeveloped municipalities, which is increasingly evident. None of it, unfortunately, is allowed by this law. I'd like to mention a spa. Like I said before, one-third of the night stays in the spas. We don't have a law on spas. We have high capacity, but a pretty bad situation in the facilities. By law on spas, through the Law on Privatisation, which had to be amended, it should have been possible to revitalise these facilities, remove unfair competition that exists in Banja tourism, and put a large number of employees in a situation to earn income. I would just mention that we have a lot of health workers employed in these spas, which may be where we are in a better situation than many countries in the environment, and we could offer a better service. All of this, unfortunately, is gone, and neither has this government been acting reformably in the past. The best example is poor privatisation carried out in tourism companies. First of all, we have a chance to hear about the Traveler every day. One of the fundamentally bad concepts of privatisation may have shown the worst effects in catering, commercial, tourist companies, and "Pautnik" is certainly one of those, where a bad assessment, the evil intentions of the tender commission and the incompetence of those members, as well as the then government, made it impossible for a collective, which could have been a driver of tourism in Serbia to have liked the right hands and enabled us to infuse foreign guests and affirm a complete tourist offer. Through the Privatisation Act, first of all, we had to obligate the buyer to continue to work, for a long period of time, because for tourism it is very important for investment to be long-term, and to make sure that the buyer is from that branch. We don't have it, because it's done very superficially through the current law. Tourism economy, tourism privatisation had to be excluded, and it wasn't done. It seems to me that this is quite a reason not to be optimistic when it comes to this law and that we question the effects of this law. Without the following laws, he will not solve the problems of the tourism economy. We have to hope that some next government will offer a more complete and better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14819	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before the opening of the original search whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. Please, the word is Arsen Đuric, an authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14820	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really like to express my great satisfaction that after more attempts at the tourism law finally came before the MPs of the Republic Assembly. Before I move to law alone, I want to highlight a few positive things that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services have done in the previous year to create better conditions for further and more intensive development of the tourism economy. When it comes to legislative activity, in addition to the tourism law that lies ahead of us in the assembly procedure, there is also a proposal for a law on public ski resorts, and in the final phase there is also a law on spas and I hope that this law will be found very quickly in the assembly procedure. When it comes to funding for the promotion of tourism, these funds were twice the amount in 2004 over 2003, and by 2005 budget they were planned at 280 million, four times more than the previous year. These days it will be placed in the tourism economy, partly through very favourable, cheap loans, and partly grants, through subsidies to stimulate tourism development. The introduction of value added tax in hotels and resorts is reduced from 20% to 8%, and when it comes to private issuers dealing with the issue of domestic beds, they are granted a normised cost of 50%, instead of 20 so far, which is certainly a major subsidy for the development of this type of tourism. Also, this year the development strategy for Serbia's tourism development is planned as a basic and starting document for the further development of the tourism economy. All these tax incentives, subsidies and stimulation have created a more positive environment and better conditions for further development of the tourism economy as a very important economy of the branch. The current tourism law has created legal standards for the development of the tourism economy, however, has shown a number of shortcomings in its application, which hopefully through the adoption of this new law will be removed. The proposal for this law views tourism as an integral activity, which is adapted to development needs and opportunities, where the conditions for carrying out activities and services in tourism are clearly defined and all jobs affecting the tourist product are defined. It is important to stress that the text of this law is in line with the European Union's legislation, as tourism as an economic activity exceeds national frameworks. The bill creates conditions for further development and promotion of tourism. All activities and services in tourism have been defined, measures are defined to protect users of tourist services, but also measures to protect tourism professions. In order to preserve tourist spaces as essential resources for further development of tourism, certain activities have been planned to identify these areas by adopting acts on their declaration, protection and measures and conditions for use. This law clearly defines the terms of the tourist region and tourist resort. The tourist region, except for one geographical and functional continent, must meet certain conditions regarding capacity and transport, which means that it must have at least 1000 beds in accommodation facilities and at least 150,000 nights achieved in the previous year, but also an established tourist organisation at the level of the tourist region and tourist-informative centres in tourist resorts. A much more significant role has been given to the national tourism organisation, where its role has been highlighted in further improvement and development of tourism, in coordination with tourist organisations of cities and municipalities and other tourism entities. Serbia's tourism organisation provides guidelines for the development of plans and programmes for promotional activities of local and territorial tourism organisations, exploring the tourism market, promoting Serbian tourism on foreign markets, and all in order to create a unique picture of Serbia's tourist product. The bill plans to adopt a special act on the appearance and content of tourist signalling, with the aim of standardising signs and symbols, and this year's budget of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services has been designed to implement the project, so that I agree with my colleague Zivadinović, and I hope that by the end of the year there will be a tourist signalling in English towards our golden end. The paper in the law is also a tourist fee, paid by legal and natural persons and entrepreneurs who perform tourism, catering or other activities related to tourism. In fact, business operators who operate in a particular tourist site use the special benefits and development of tourism infrastructure, which brings them greater profits, leaving the possibility for local self-government units to write the amount of tourist compensation, with the obligation to return those funds to further development of tourism infrastructure and promotion of the site. A very important newspaper is the establishment of a tourism development fund, as a budget fund, where clearly defined sources of funding and how these funds are used. The fund would be financed from the republic's budget, from a 20% share of the tourist fee, from loans and subsidies. The funds would serve as support to the tourism economy for the implementation of some priority projects and would be placed in the form of co-financing, with very favourable and low interest rates or in the form of interest subsidies for bank loans. When it comes to tourist agencies, the distribution of tourist agencies to travel agencies and travel agencies dealing with mediation has been carried out. The travel organizers' agency has been divided into country and abroad travel organizers (these agencies belong to category A) and country travel organisers (they belong to category B). On the basis of this division, the Minister responsible for tourism affairs is also licensed by the agencies A and B. In terms of staff, there is no difference between agencies in category A and B. In order to protect the users of tourist services, it is planned that agencies must provide certain financial guarantees in the event of non-execution of certain contractual obligations or travel programmes, so that four alternatives are left to provide these financial guarantees, so that agencies in category A can have insurance policies for each tourist trip separately or provided funds of 30 000 euros or a bank guarantee of that amount. The same conditions apply to agencies in category B, with a sum of 5,000 euros. For the first time, the catering facilities subject to a categorisation obligation are provided for certain criteria in respect of staff, so that the hotel or motel manager must have at least a higher level of professional catering training, at least three years of work experience in the catering and knowledge of one foreign language, while in other catering facilities subject to the obligation to categorisation, the operator of the facility must have at least a mid-term professional training, at least a year of work experience in the catering and knowledge of one foreign language. All of this is prescribed in order to raise the quality and level of services in tourism and catering. Also, much greater powers have been given to the tourist inspection, which is very important, because it should nevertheless act primarily preventively, but also in order to raise the quality of services and protect the users of tourist services. This is why the DSS supports this bill and invites all MPs to vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14821	Do any of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups want a word? MP Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14822	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and respected viewers at the end of the small screen, we have before us the tourism law and the SPO parliamentary group to vote for this law. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Which part? ) Part belonging to the SCI. So Serbian Renewal Movement MPs will vote for the tourism law and have made their contribution to this quality law through several amendments. We have heard good discussions during today's session, and it certainly is not too much to say that Serbia has real potential for tourism development and that these potentials, as one of the most important economic branches, should be turned around as soon as possible, so that the law is adopted as soon as possible, so that the budget will be filled and from the resources generated from the tourist part. What is very important to say is that the law includes a strategy for tourism development, a system for planning tourism, establishing jobs and the competence of tourism organisations and determining the activity of economic operators. A very important item in this law is also a member who regulates the establishment of a tourism development fund, which will enable better development of tourism in Serbia and turn to all the activities within the framework of tourism that have not been represented so far. I come from a region where rural tourism could develop in a much better way. It is that all our villages have bad infrastructure, but I hope that this tourism development fund will help develop the infrastructure in a better way. The capitals of our villages are not only seen in the development of rural tourism in terms of issuing rooms during vacations; let's say, the area from which I come is known for its highly developed and quality wine-making, and I think that the Ministry of Trade and Tourism could in one specific way commit itself to regional wine-making and help the end through tourism and trade, I think of eastern Serbia, to find its way to Europe. Since the concentration in parliament is extremely poor, I will talk more about the law under the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14823	Since there are no more authorised presidents and representatives who want a word, I'm concluding a principled search. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Ninic, Sanja Cekovic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14824	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to Article 26 is something that we have repeatedly disputed my MPs of the SRS and my littleness and resolution minister, but not just us, but also the representatives of the profession from the association of tourist agencies, the association of agencies in our country. In the true sense of the words in tourism, this represents a kind of institution and it is not only for us, but also for any developed country in Europe, in a country that has a quality and developed tourist offer. So, the national association that brings together tourist agencies is an association, specifically in Greece, Spain, wherever you want, which is wondering when it comes to tourism, because people representing the business of tourist agencies are relevant and competent to take an active role in creating a legislative area, not in a direct way, because they are not politicians, they are not MPs, but if individual ministries are repeatedly calling for a profession and what are the objections of those who have certain problems, then it was incomprehensible for me to represent it in the board of directors of the Tourist Organisation of Serbia do not have colleagues from the aforementioned association, and I have just asked it by amendment to Article 26 of the Law. So that's not the key reason why we're not going to accept a bill like this, but it's really something that I'm not, not as an MP, not as an ex-boyfriend of those people, I could understand. In particular, at a very unpleasant meeting, i.e. at the first session when the draft law was discussed in September, one rigid position of the minister, primarily towards the director and association, and then to the present colleagues, who did everything, during the sanctions and in the period thereafter, in this period so-called. transitions, to help improve tourism through quality work. Not all tourist agencies are members of JUTA. There's a new association that started business a few years ago, which wants to be a pandan for this one who already has a long tradition. I am not familiar with the number of agencies, i.e. this association and its business, but I can very responsibly argue that JUTA, as a national organisation which is an association for tourist agencies in our country, is very good at doing its job in the conditions and opportunities that allow it, not because people, or owners, especially private agents, are members of that association, have some interference, but because, with the resources they have, both with the people and with the staff, try to be representative in this regard and have hearing about the problems that travel agencies have. You cannot, as an individual tourist, come, for example, to the Greek embassy; for example, Not one of you colleagues who wants to go on vacation with his family to knock on the door, take a form and say – I want to go with my family and on my passport I need an individual tourist visa for Greece, visit a destination. You need to have an authentic voucher to stay in one of the Greece resorts that has a contract with the Greek Embassy for certain facilities and certain dates of departure. If you have booked such an arrangement as a potential passenger (and indeed there are a small number of Serbian citizens who can afford it, although they say there are even more favourable arrangements, nothing is favourable in a country that has 980,000 unemployed people) and if you happen to raise that money and the agency to offer you a favourable offer, you have a voucher, and the agency is not in a situation and there is no direct passage to the embassy, you can do so through this association such as YUTA. Therefore, it is not true that these people, with what they are doing, are not required to be involved, that association as such, in the administrative board of the Serbian Tourist Organisation. With my amendment, I have made this very point, and colleagues present at that first meeting have been thinking in that direction, therefore, members of JUTA and the director themselves feel that this is necessary. The Ministry wouldn't accept it, we'll change it when we're able to change the legislation and intervene in all areas of our economy, including the tourism law. It is necessary to respect what is truly a proven quality and agencies have to go through certain restrictive, say, filters, in order to, in the right sense, deserve that epithet of a representative agency or to come into a situation that, by human resources, by what they can offer and by insolvency, enter into this group that the licensing of agencies is now carried out, that those who organise travel in the country and abroad, intercede, and that subagents, or this other group, of course, do not belong to another category of people who do this job, but are not yet at that level that they can work so well and offer a quality offer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14825	The word is made by the People's MP Veselinović. Miss Jovanovic, I ask you to hold tight for five minutes in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14826	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as previous laws, as well as this law on tourism, to which you pay great attention, generally solves nothing, nor improves the previous law we had. This provides for the establishment of some new funds, simply, the decommissioning of this business and the decommissioning of the competent ministry's intelligence. Namely, the establishment of a tourism organisation in Serbia, as we can see, creates a new tourist body or a new bureaucratic apparatus financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We also see at the very establishment of a board of directors that the Management Board is responsible for the Ministry, although there are supposed to be members from tourist companies and other organisations. I must begin with that saying that our people have—God gives us, nature gives us gifts, and the devil brings us a bag. What do I mean by that? God has given us everything we need for Serbs and Serbia, a natural gift for beauty, and in that devil's bag there are some valuables, sometimes there can be cake, but most of the money. Unfortunately, the question is who today carries that money and that bag in the state of Serbia and who has the money. That money, people's money belongs to an expert group that abuses money, and in every branch of Serbia's economy it will also be in the tourist branch, as it is mainly distributed in all bodies and organisations where financial transactions are carried out. This people's money is not directed where it's important and for what the people stand out for, but for many other irrelevant things, travels, sale property and money laundering. I mentioned these natural resources, our beautiful mountains, clean springs, lakes and banana springs, which are difficult to reach, although you boast you will create a travel network, that you will make some highways; this is what Vela Ilic says regularly throughout Serbia, that all villages will be connected, even in the backdrops of Golia. So far, we see that all you are predicting is the harmonisation of the law with some European regulations, the award of concessions and so on. What will happen in the area of tourism? You predict regions, the award of concessions in the region, depending on the conditions that meet the tourism capacity in the region. We'll just give it to the alien again, so he'll sell his goods, sell our water, and we'll have nothing of it. Many workers will lose jobs, as has happened so far. In that sense, I believe that you had to accept the amendments of the SRS and Miss Natasa Jovanovic, which would improve this law, remove these doubts and disburse the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14827	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Just one notice: if we were to finish, if we had serious access to this agenda point, today we wouldn't start another agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14828	Given the number of amendments, Mr. President, and the fact that Serbian Radical Party MPs are going to mentally defend all the amendments they have proposed, I think you will begin next Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14829	I'll give it back so you can use a lot of time, Mr. Markovic. It is my duty to inform MPs of the way it will work, and of course, some MPs may not be able to explain the amendment in five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see why the government has not adopted the amendment of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic where the word "tourism" is required to add to the word "association". To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia what this is about, I will read Article 26's first position: "The board of directors has a president and ten members. In addition to ministry representatives, representatives of tourism enterprises and other organisations, affirmed scientific workers in the field of tourism and employee representatives, are appointed to the board. "The point of the amendment is that, let's say, JUTA, as the largest and most serious association of all tourism organisations in Serbia, has its representative on the board of directors of the Serbian Tourist Organisation. As the government suggests, we prevent YUTA from having its own representative, we deny the possibility of other small tourist organisations that are part of JUTA to join the board of directors. I think that by adopting this amendment, I only gain quality, and I suggest that in the day to vote, MPs of the ruling coalition, together with the MPs of the SRS, support this amendment and that we at least improve this law a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14831	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14832	On behalf of the DS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 34 by proposing that the title above Articles 34 and 34 be deleted. The member implies that a non-profit organisation for operational, marketing and promotional jobs can be established by a tourist organisation. The Democratic Party believes there is no need to allow this law and the tourism organisation at all to establish an organisation of a non-profit character. We think that this law simply does not belong to such a solution, so for this reason we have suggested that the member who treats this matter and the title above that article be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14833	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14834	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment submitted on behalf of its parliamentary group by Ms Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, for the simple reason that, for non-profit organisations for operational, marketing and promotional jobs in the field of tourism, defined by Article 34, as it is written, it says that tourist organisations, with the consent of the founders, in order to plan, coordinate and manage tourism activities, can, with businesses, other legal entities and entrepreneurs performing operations in the field of traffic, tourism, etc. to form them and make such arrangements. Yesterday, I cited a frantic example when it comes to the tourist organization of the town of Kragujevac, and I am sorry that today is not the mayor, who has not been around lately because of the problems he has with his present former party, Veroljub Stevanovic, to answer my question why the tourist organisation of the town of Kragujevac does not finance a single dinar from the city budget, which is 2.5 billion dinars. Is it normal for one such city, with such a culture, tradition, with such opportunities that it can offer in its surroundings, to have such a relationship with people who are located in the tourist organization of the town of Kragujevac? It is amazing, after this article of 26th and the amendment, which the Ministry refused to accept – and I was just talking about those people from the association, it was sometimes called that and remained the name, the Yugoslav Association of Tourist Agencys, which are not involved in the administrative body of TOS – that, on the other hand, it is possible for tourism organisations to carry out such jobs. YUTA represented tourist agencies and all those who had an offer on the tourist market all along its existence. The possibility of them being represented has been denied, and a new method is being created here – that tourist organisations are doing these jobs, which is absolutely unacceptable, as the applicant said. There is a lot of contradiction in that, by accepting certain amendments, some requirements that are known only to the minister and which are closely related to the party to which he belongs, and on the other hand, have not been taken into account to meet the demands that people seek, when it comes to the creation of this new law, which, without the adoption of these amendments by Serbian radicals, has no purpose, because then the existing law, which was passed in 2000, is correct. We could have gone for a change and a supplement, possibly, of that law, through several members. It is absolutely incomprehensible for us to say that this is a whole new, system law, in line with European standards, and not to accept these solutions that reflect our realities and the needs of people who deal with this business. That is why it is unacceptable for us to vote in favour of such a law without adopting these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14835	Anyone else on this amendment? No, thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you are, MP Veroljub Arsic. After that, we'll set a break of an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14836	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment concerns Article 35(2). I would also like to read attitude 1, just so the MPs who are a little bit of a follow-up are aware of what's going on. It means: "Tourist potentials, as well as the contents of the tourist offer, are marked by appropriate symbols and signs (hereinafter: tourist signalling). ′′ Item 2: ′′The minister prescribes the content and manner of highlighting tourist signalling. "With my amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I asked the ministry, instead of the minister, to prescribe the content and manner of emphasising tourist signalling. For a long time, the SRS has submitted such and similar amendments to various and similar draft laws. So far, the authorised promoter, i.e. the government, has provided various explanations as to why such amendments are not accepted. However, I can now say that in this case, the government of the Republic of Serbia has surpassed itself. I don't understand how that's possible, but I hope those professional services you kept in the government know what it's about. It explains: "Amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 71 is paragraph 1. Law on State Administration ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 20/92, 48/93, 48/94 and 49/99) are prescribed to provide regulations, orders and instructions to a official who manages the authorities of the state administration. "That is true, but the one who wrote it forgot to refer to the ministry because the minister is the head of all deputies, assistants, secretaries, cleaning women. These regulations, i.e. regulations, rules and decisions apply to the internal work of the body: when the cleaning woman will clean, who will cook the coffee, who will wash the curtains, Mr. Minister, and not to the regulation that comes out of the work of the body, the regulation that someone will carry out, not the body to which you operate. Whoever knows the state's administration should have known that this stupid explanation shouldn't be put in. To make the matter worse, the government of Serbia's answers on behalf of the promoter are signed by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus. What are your reasons? That's the government's vice president.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14837	Anyone else on this amendment? National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Of course, all MPs know that all acts are signed by the vice-presidents; in the case of the Serbian government, only one vice-president.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14838	Mr. Markovic, we're talking about tourist signalling here, we don't need you to be a signal to us at all and signal what we wanted to say and explain it to us after every amendment. It's really pointless for every one of you. Yesterday, you told Mr. Nikolic, when he was Minister Tomica Milosavljevic in the O.R., and Mr. Nikolic came out in the meantime, that he was not a four-year minister, but rather a shorter time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14839	Miss Jovanovic, I'll give you back your time so you can talk about the amendment. So, it is my duty to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give notice and I give accurate notice to all interested Members. Here, I've given you your time, you've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14840	You're giving incorrect explanations. Your behavior and your comments, which are probably the product of your boredom in that place, when talking about some projects don't make any sense and at least they're tasteless. Let the messengers go, you are now in the place of the speaker, for you are the first among the equals. When the time comes to decide, you're setting a negative example for the minister, he's here for the first time, and he might think it should be parliamentary practice for the president of the assembly to behave like that. There is talk of tourist signalling and Article 35. I also explained to the Committee that this is not just about this law, Mr Dimitrievich, but about all the legal projects that have been adopted since 2000. The Serbian Radical Party has always reacted to amendments and you will see that there are more such amendments. It's about the tourist signalling. So, also in other jobs, for which, according to the bill, the minister is in charge, and when it comes to tax laws, laws in the field of justice, agriculture, we always respond because we believe that the ministry should prescribe certain sublaws, forms or whatever certain laws provide, not that the minister prescribes the content and manner of emphasising tourist signalling. You know, in part of the highway for exclusion from Mladenvec towards Belgrade, i.e. on the move from Vlaško Polje, that place near Mladenovac, according to Belgrade, something that is not a tourist signalling, which you might, as a minister from the Serbian Renewal Movement, accept, but it is completely pointless. It is written there, and it is written on several traffic signs. Only the Wolf knows the way. I go that way almost every day. Someone who would come on the side, some stranger, say, who would look at where it says -- only the Wolf knows the way (it was written by your party activists), might think, and he knows that he's going towards Belgrade, that he's going to Paracin or Leskovac, because he apparently doesn't know the way, and only Vuk Draskovic knows the way. How can you take on yourself now, Mr. Minister, so much responsibility to prescribe tourist signalling, when you see that there is an obvious discrepancies in what your common sense activists wrote and what we see when we know we're heading towards Belgrade. He means I don't know what my path is, and I know it very well, and the SRS and millions of citizens who support us. That's why I don't think that you should take on this much and this responsibility and deal with the tourist signalling, because you see that you in the party have these problems and disagreements about it. It is not simply resolved, Mr. Minister, because Vuk Draskovic has a path that is not good for Serbian citizens or for what citizens expect from the authorities. Since he gave himself the right, or I can see that you generously approve of it, to tell us that he alone knows the way, you know, you're still determining the tourist signalling. It can say, say, on a nut path; someone goes to a famous place where Karadjorje has raised his uprising and writes there – only the Wolf knows the way, so we don't know where we're going, or on our way to Kragujevac. It was a small joke, but it is (and you will see it later and through the amendments) inappropriate, and it is not in line with what the minister should do as the carrier of that resor, the executive authority, that the minister prescribes a tourist signalling or does some other business. We consider it a party – I said, this is not only the case with this law but also with all the laws, when it comes to that package of 2001 Djelic's laws, and this was later continued by Dinkic – that the minister should not be the one who prescribed it, but the ministry. That is why I propose that the amendment of the distinguished colleague Veroljub Arsic be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14841	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14842	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as a constructive parliamentary party, as a party that wants to help the government, we are trying to help the minister directly with this amendment. Imagine, if this amendment is not adopted accidentally in the voting day, then the minister must buy a palette and brush and draw and determine what kind of signalling it will be. He literally prescribes, just to read Article 35 in that part – the minister prescribes the content and manner of emphasising tourist signalling. Will you, Minister, have to write that on a concrete pole, to be on a metal pole, to be triangular? Would you like to draw it yourself? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Arsic tried to explain to the government that the ministry is an organ and that the minister is the head of the body. If you have written in the law that the body is bringing, or in an explanation why you do not accept the amendment, then I think there is something wrong with it; it says – the amendment is not accepted because the provision of Article 71 is paragraph 1. The State Administration Act requires that regulations, orders and instructions be passed by a body managing the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14843	Thank you. Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Branko Bosnjak. The government has accepted this amendment. Member of the 46th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're taking a break until 3:15. Thank you. [[After break – 16:00]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the afternoon work of today's session by discussing the 9th item of the agenda – the Proposal for a Law on Tourism, in particular. Please begin to determine the quorum. According to official records, 130 MPs are present. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that using an electronic system has established that we have a quorum to work with. On behalf of Chapter IV above Articles 48 and Article 48 of the amendment, MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is no doubt necessary to invest in our tourist activity, in the hotel industry, in the hospitality and in one national product Serbia can offer, much more funds than it is today. Yesterday, a minister in Vrnjačka Banja presented information that last year our tourist activity achieved a $220m income. This is in the total balance of the income achieved in the economy one amount which is not completely negligible, but is certainly insufficient. What is present with us is that we had a period of not stagnation but a political collapse of the tourism industry, in the sense of withdrawing a number of foreign guests, who were to come to Serbia and use all the beauty that, thank God, our country has. Here, fellow Serbian radicals, each from their own territory, promoted what they consider to be underdeveloped in the area. But not political instability, but, on the contrary, the creation of a picture by you who today are governmental and by the previous DOS furniture, in the period when we were under sanctions so-called. the international community, that we are a risky area, which we certainly weren't in the tourist area, has actually led to a full stagnation of the development of hotels, catering. At that time, people who were absolutely committed and loyal to what they were doing for many years were taking on various ways to maintain the quality of the tourist offer. Today we are faced with the situation that because of such a long-standing collapse and failure to invest in Serbia's tourism, and above all when it comes to Banish tourism, I repeat again -- we still don't have the law on spas... We have natural beauty, all that we can offer as a state, along with all our cultural and ethnic features; when one study was made in the late 1990s, by an expert team from the tourism field from the Faculty of Economics from Kragujevac, they highlighted it as our advantage, and of course, as the greatest disadvantage, and this is exactly what the amendment on the establishment of a tourism development fund has brought forward. But what is what, in addition to these natural beauty that we have and the geographically attractive climate, adorns us – it is the exceptional hospitality of us Serbs. They pointed that out first, as our main asset, when it comes to what we have to offer. And in these humble conditions, in accommodation facilities that are far below the satisfying, we tried to host all those who wanted to come, therefore, not just domestic guests, but also those from abroad. But it's a full stagnation in development, first of all, banana tourism. Even in the early 1990s, when many towns in Serbia, including Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis, tended to form so-called "the New Sad", Belgrade, Kragujevac and Nis". The agreements on fraternizing with certain cities from Europe and the world in general, all as a major tourist offer and attraction, highlighted our mountains, lakes and Banish tourism, which today is truly in an invisible position and at the worst possible level of development in general. Here we are given the opportunity to set up a tourism development fund, as the promoter explained to us months ago. We told you that the SRS absolutely cannot support this fund and this kind of business, because we are not skeptical but absolutely untrustworthy, because the bitter experience teaches us this, when it comes to any of these so-called. Development funds, and by the previous DOS government and from this one now. Yesterday I'm on the case of setting up the Trust Fund, today's most vulnerable, and these are... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija said that for us now, in this situation, for our people downstairs, the only possible solution is that we, through the help we can single out as a party and through direct forwarding to the end-user, do so. We really can't trust this government and this government and the resources... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Because we are convinced, here I am ending, that of all those who compete, as is present today in the entire economy, after the adoption of the law that should best regulate that area, only those who are so-called. Serbian tycoons, which are close to the ruling set. So it's in health care, economics, municipal infrastructure; that's how it's going to be, through the establishment of this fund, in the field of tourism, and for that reason, because it's also another corruption polygon, we don't want to support the establishment of one such fund.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14846	National MP Dragoljub Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14847	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of the Serbian Radical Party, i.e. Col. Pop-Lazic, who is proposed to have the title of chapter four above Article 48, as well as Article 48. The proposal for a tourism law deletes, aims to draw your attention to the unnecessary formation of a new service, which in the draft law bears the name of a fund, which will deal with those tasks already covered by the competent service of the ministry. The formation of the fund increases unnecessary administration, as well as unnecessary costs. We know we don't have roses in tourism. In your explanation, you're saying that this fund will control the inflow of funds, as well as its intended spending. Does this mean that so far in our tourism no one has controlled the inflow of funds, as well as the costs incurred by the business of this tourist ministry? I think we should pay maximum attention to how to use better content and better service to serve both domestic and foreign tourists and thus increase your income from tourism. We know that our annual income is about 220 million dollars, which is one of the smallest revenues in the region, in this part of Europe. We ask the question – how can we spend that small amount of money so lightly? We know well that our travel network to tourist facilities is very bad, that our service is extremely bad, that our contents for tourist events and for the needs of our tourists are very bad, and I think that it would be better and much more appropriate if these funds were directed in that direction, rather than that we created some more unnecessary services, which are still costing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14848	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14849	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Serbia's timely state has formed a Fund for the Development of Not-developed Areas in Serbia, so 90% of these funds went to Kosovo, but not equally to all, but rather to end up in the pockets of Shipara, who, by some coercion, bought some money from the Serbian country and slowly pushed the Serbs out of the area. The Fund for Reconstruction and Development, or whatever it was called, was formed in 1994-1995; there were large funds invested, citizens invested with both cap and fist, and some, close to the centres of decision-making, received these funds. In particular, today one of the richest people in Serbia has received funds to build 50 factories in Kosovo and Metohija and 25 factories from those resources that are allocated to the Fund of underdeveloped areas. He made 75 cornerstones and one single factory for the production of mailboxes in Vitomirica near Peća. She worked for a year, hired twenty people, then shut down and today stands 75 foundation stones in Kosovo and Metohija. The money is directed at other projects, so today it is not known how much he invested in Telekom and how much the state of Serbia invested. Of the 290m euros (it is the one that advises us now how to plant salad) five million euros goes to the Republic of Serbia, and 285 million, via ′′Astra Simita′′ and various other companies, goes to the other side, full of some other pockets, and that money buys this poor economy that we are selling out today. Since the fate of all these funds is such that whoever's closer to the fire gets a little warmer, I'm afraid this fund doesn't experience the same fate, so before there's any reason to form this fund. We have potentials, those who would invest have funds, many would like to look at it; in the previous presentation I mentioned Italian investors interested in the marina at the Danube Key in Zemun, investments on the island of Lido, many investments in the area of tourism. Let us pass a law that will allow investors to invest in funds and guarantee that the state guarantees the fate of the funds invested, in some way guaranteed. We don't need any funds, because it might just happen that this Ilic who bought the Traveler and ruined it now shows up as an interest in using funds from a fund like this. The Serbian Radical Party believes that this member of the law and the title above the member should be deleted and the fund should not be formed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14850	The word is from the People's Messenger Nikola Lalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14851	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will try briefly to support this SRS proposal to delete the title above Articles 48 and 48. The reason is this: Article 20 provides for the establishment of a tourism organisation in Serbia; funding funds are determined from the fund. Then, tourism development is also scheduled to be financed from the fund. When we consider all this, and that we will also have a tourist region, if we divide the country into tourist regions, and Article 11 provides that the tourist region can be put to use, or concessions, the question is what should remain for TOS and this fund so that it can work normally. In fact, we don't have what to betray, there's absolutely no money to do and there's no reason to exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14852	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14853	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I have reported first and foremost on the amendments proposed to delete members 48, 49 and 50 of this law. All three members refer precisely to the tourism development fund. Unlike the promoters of these amendments, I don't think that's a good solution. We just need a fund, because there is no way to implement a long-term development strategy in tourism unless there are safe and long-term sources of funding for basic and capital issues in the development of tourism. If we define ourselves as a variant, which, of course, is possible, that, within the framework of the budget for a certain year and within the framework of the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, we finance development activities in tourism, I think it will be a short breath policy and thus fail. Look at the provisions of Article 48: Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is opening a budget fund. You see, here's what's important is this formulation -- it's not the foundation, it's the opening. The fund opens for unlimited time, which is also important, and the budget year, as you know, takes 12 months. If we were to define ourselves to finance from the Ministry's budget, then we would have short-term effects and an unfavourable situation in tourism, perhaps even worsened in terms of the current situation. Take a closer look, the Ministry can, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, trust the Fund's professional and financial technical affairs with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Bank or another professional organisation. So, professional affairs. I think the promoter was supposed to be braver in this article 48th so he could place the fund as a legal person like the Development Fund, not just a budget fund. Or, let's say, if you look at Article 49, the fund is financed from: the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so one source of income; further, 20% of the income from the tourist fee; third, donation, loans and loans from the country and abroad. I especially point out this point 3 - donations, loans and loans from the country and abroad. Is there any knowledge that we have foreign partners who will lend credit to the ministry and put those funds into the Republic of Serbia's budget for one year? We don't, and that doesn't make sense, but we're gonna have these so-called. foreign funds, foreign banks, foreign donors who will be willing to, above all, invest funds in this tourism development fund and finance certain activities in the area in the long term. It's also a problem for me that the proposer has approached here with the idea that there is no need for additional funds to implement this law, and if someone asked me, I would have defined at least two billion dinars in this year for the establishment of this fund in the budget. Because you now have a situation that only 146 million dinars are intended to develop tourism; therefore, 70 million for subsidies, and 70 million or more for activities of the Serbian Tourist Organisation. I'm asking you, who in this room thinks that with 70 million dinars through subsidies can do something more serious in the tourism economy that is in the state of it. That is why we have to go in this direction to rebalance the budget and to strengthen this fund from the budget already at the start with two billion dinars, so that the fund is permanently operational, and those who use funds to return funds to the fund with some interest, not with a high interest, so that they could use those funds in five, six or ten years and be one permanent definition, not to depend on budget policy for one year, on IMF positions, from having to reduce public spending and on many other budget expenditures. If this thing were financed from the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, in any case, this year, or next year, the funds would be limited. That's why I don't think it's a good idea to bother and suggest that these members be deleted, because that makes multiple damage to the very ones we'd like to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14854	Right on line, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14855	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Todorovic delivered his opinion, but his task is not to think much here, but to support the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because that is how his parliamentary group was defined. Not to think, I am absolutely responsible for saying that the opening of such a tourism development fund would lead to a number of abuses. We already have that experience with the Serbian Development Fund. And while you're at it, I need to remind you of an affair with former Minister Mary Raseta-Vukosavljevic. Its mother-in-law has been granted funds for some alleged developmental agricultural projects, and in fact, one object, or something that is, at the very least, a place for gathering people of dubious morality or, not to say, a woman. It is truly incomprehensible that you suggest that something that is our attitude is wrong. You have the right to express your opinion, you have the right to defend what the Government of the Republic of Serbia advocates, but I must tell you that in countries where tourism activity and offers are highly developed and where income from tourism in gross national income is much greater than 0.4%, such as in Serbia, because of the overall economic situation, the governments there have not resorted everywhere to this model to establish, or to open a fund that will affect the development of the tourism economy. So this is not the only way and method, and what we advocate as a party, and we are ready to give you a number of arguments that this is possible, only that there is support from the Ministry, the Government, the City of Belgrade, when it comes to some projects for Belgrade municipalities, are the direct foreign investments of interested ino-partners for the development of the tourism economy. It is very important that we get into a situation where we have a law on spas, that, as you like to say, I think of these DOSs, in a more transparent way, to privatise, that there is no need to privatise the biggest tourist operator "putnik" as the government of Zivkovic and he himself did, because this customer is "putnik", a certain Ilic, his school friend or friend from youth. It is necessary to define what is our national product, and to invite foreign investors through business banks to invest in our tourism economy. There are countless examples in the neighbouring republic of our state union, in Montenegro, where numerous abuses have occurred through the establishment of such a fund. My colleagues from various hotel complexes have repeatedly appeared to compete over the assistance of the Montenegrin Tourism Development Fund and, of course, always had only one company, which is under the direct control of their peak, i.e. the company that recently had a tourism minister until two years ago, the man who previously was the director of the hotel complex, I mean Bečić. The same case will happen here. We think it's the direction and the way, and we know it's the means. which is not for the development of tourism what is a key problem, therefore, that through direct foreign investments, without new borrowings and without burdening the republican budget in any way, there is money that would speed up our tourism economy. [[President: colleagues, time for replication has elapsed.]] We told you yesterday and today that certain municipalities, such as the Zemun municipality, are where it is in the power of the SRS and where Serbian Radical President Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic is unable to get funds from the city of Belgrade as competent to promote tourism. [[President: Please, will you finish your replica?]] But regardless, Belgrade's days in Zemun were held, the best were done, much better than the central event in Belgrade. The days of Italy are now being prepared, which will last 14 days in the municipality of Zemun, because it is a municipality that knows how to exploit those modest means; but foreign investors will come, like, everywhere in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14856	Replica, MP Jovan Todorovic. I'm sorry, the People's Parliament is reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14857	I think Article 97 might explain what I was talking about. My colleague Jovanovic, you obviously did not understand what I was talking about or you did not want to understand, as I do not think you understood the essence of the provisions relating to the opening of the tourism development fund. So, I have no intention of talking to you about it, but I've just made my point. You know me well, I've been in this congregation for four years, and I never talked about what I don't know how to talk about or what I don't mean. So it's not just my job to support the government, it's exactly why I support it, and to say my opinion as a MP who's been working in the Assembly for five years with you. Since you are so insistent that you are right to delete the provisions concerning the Development Fund, to ask you how in Article 50 you will implement point 4) or, let's say, point 7) if you keep that only the Ministry of Tourism and Trade is able to invest in certain things. Point 4) – participation in the financing of construction, reconstruction and equipment of accommodation facilities and accompanying facilities in tourism. Under 7) – Participation in funding priority investment programmes and development projects from the Fund's programmes. It is impossible with current budgets within the Ministry to allocate funds only for these two points, not to mention all other provisions contained in Article 50 and in some previous members of this law. So that's the point. I only advocate a permanent solution to capital investment financing in the tourism area. It can't be done from the budget for each year individually, because that's why we don't have long-term tourism policy. If we have a strategy that's long-term character as a document, whoever it's brought from, whether it's from this assembly, whether it's from the Ministry, whether it's from the Government, then that strategy has to be implemented in the long term. In order for some things to be done in the long term, we must have long-term sources of funding to implement the strategy and we must have a system of recovery of these funds in order for others to use them. It is not a question of who will benefit, but of whether there will be any incentive for the development of the tourism economy, which is (that is what you, me, and all MPs have said) the comparative advantage of the country of Serbia. We have to do it in order to be able to make concrete evidence that we really want tourism to be in better shape than it is now. So, that was the essence of my pledge to keep the Fund provisions, because I think that's the best part of this law and the best newspaper that's been passed by the Tourism Law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14858	The replica was reported by MP Natasa Jovanovic. The line to the replica is three minutes. I have to let you know, it doesn't look familiar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14859	I know how long the replica lasts in the Rules of Procedure. Yours is to warn me if those three minutes go by and you're a little more focused when one of the MPs calls, that you know if he's answering the line or the Rules of Procedure, and leave smiling when you get out of the O.R. and when you leave the presidency to someone else or when the president returns. Be a little more serious about that. Mr Todorovic, there is indeed one diametrically opposite approach not only to this issue, but also to the other, and that is why I am a Serbian radical, and you are in the Socialist Party of Serbia. I am proud to be in the Serbian Radical Party and I believe that our programme and what we are fighting for is a much healthier, better and more lasting method than the one you have, and yours is a democratic right, you accept or do not accept. I just told you that the problem of funding and finance, starting from a local level, is where tourism business is to be improved, to this national one, is the biggest problem. But again, I remind you that some countries in our environment have developed tourism. For example, Greece had a lightning development, but not through the establishment of a state-run tourism development fund, in the period after the overthrow of the military junta and for 20 years, with foreign direct investments. I don't know if you've ever been there, traveled and visited all these destinations and many beautiful Greek islands. So this was made possible through direct foreign investment, through Italian investment, through the investment of numerous world tycoons in Turkey and Bulgaria. If you go down those shores and see what kind of magnificent hotels they are, you'll see that we and how far behind we are. So through this direct foreign investment, and the state did not interfere with it, it made it possible for its tax policy for people to enter capital uninterruptedly, to pay the state what they should pay for, but also to earn, the tourism economy in those countries developed extremely quickly. It is indeed a driver not only for the development of tourism but also for all the accompanying industries and for us to come into a situation as a country to attract these foreign investors we have to ask ourselves who are they to use money. You're saying it doesn't matter who they are who they're gonna use the money later. You know, in the state of Serbia, and this dilemma will cease to exist only by the arrival of such honest people as radicals, in power, is always a problem who uses money. So far, the biggest problem has been under the previous DOS authority and under this authority who is the ultimate beneficiary of money, because the bitter experience of people, regardless of who they are, who are asking for help, is that they do not need the funds, and yours is that you stand up for it and I do not think that it is good, as well as the parliamentary group of our party. In the voting day, we will support this amendment, which Mrs. Pop-Lazic has submitted, and next. And be assured that things will fundamentally change, that only legal projects, which mean nothing in the real business of the economy, will not be what will be run by the work of a radical future government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14860	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14861	I don't mind the polemics of this kind, but please use arguments or listen carefully. You did not convince me, colleague Jovanovic, that you were right, and you did not answer two questions. You're proud because you're a member of the SRS, I have respect for all Serbian radicals, but I'm also proud to be a socialist and I'm not ashamed of it. It's our right. Of course we're different; we're left, you're right, you don't admit it sometimes because you have in your program and that part that's called so-called. social demagogy, and it's your right. Speaking of examples of Greece, I'm going to tell you that I spent my first year of working age just in tourism. I've been to Greece many times, Italy, and I know their experiences. Italian tourism and Greek tourism have just developed on this concept of state funds to encourage tourism development as comparative advantages both Greece and Italy at the time. To know one more thing: just as a child must, in order to get to eighth grade, to pass first, second, third, fifth and seventh classes, so we in our development must go through these initial stages of creating the initial means for those who want to deal with this activity. That would be the essence of my thinking and I didn't want to say anything else. You may need to stand up to it, not because you think I'm wrong, but to justify your amendment. I don't have an objection to that, but don't you object to what I was talking about, because I was just speaking competently about that area. I know you're working in tourism or working, but believe me, I'm at least that old of you, so I have so much experience and I know that the exact opposite of experience in both Greece and Italy is compared to what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14862	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14863	I didn't just want to defend my distinguished colleague, Mrs. Gordana Pop-Lazic, but I think you're wrong. As you are wrong, it is again because of some incomparable differences, in that part, between us when it comes to party belongings, that you have said here something that is absolutely untrue, that you belong to one option and we belong to another, because such a division is absolutely pointless in Serbia today. It is not only pointless today, but it has become particularly pointless (and you, Mr Todorovic, know it very well) after October 5th, after all the relentless events that have happened to all the political inexperiences of the then DOS regime, including yourself and your colleagues. This regime is because it acted like it left power within a short period of time than it planned, and today it does not exist and there is no need for such division, which potentials the SRS, and there is no kind of social demagogy, but there is only what is possible and what is not possible. I'm telling you from the position of belonging to a foreigner who has his own agenda and his commitment, and hasn't changed it since her founding, that direct foreign investment, of course with respect to all our positive legal regulations, is something that this country needs to pursue. By the way, in this feasibility study, only one sentence mentions the area of tourism, just so that the other colleagues know. If you look at the Stabilisation and Association report for the past year, you will see that there is no mention of it, and that the biggest reason for the lack of investment in such a size is the problem, as they say, political instability and the problem of our southern province, which is why we point out as our national problem, which is why consensus should be reached. Today is not the scene of such a division (I told you it is pointless) on the left and on the right, but whether we as a people are ready to return to the preservation of our national and state values and our capital, to look at our business, to the extent that we as a state can do, as the Russian Federation does, or to apply this "putin model", or we have to rely irrevocably on what comes from the West, or on their dictatorships and conditions. There are different political parties in Serbia, extremely profiled, with voter support, and the SRS, thank God, has the largest voter support in Serbia and I believe it will be even bigger. There is only a division of those who are for and against the politics of complete hegemonism and globalism now being conducted by America, not only in Western Europe, which it resists. We as a state should look at what our business is, which we have as a national value, and I in these values and how I choose our tourist potential, which I believe will develop according to the programme and concept that we define when citizens show us confidence.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14864	I think this question is sufficiently clear. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14865	Now I'm gonna answer and I'm not gonna, I promise, no matter how much I don't agree with what's being said. I guess we didn't get along again. It's possible that it doesn't matter to you in the SRS whether it's a right hand or a left, but to the Socialists, it is. I assure you that there are differences between the left and the right, because if there were no left and the right and there would be no parties with that political programme. So that's not worth discussing. It is possible that you have come to it that it is to you anyway, as you can even the Chetnic and Partisan movement. We couldn't do it. We think it's some difference that is present and historical, etc., but the difference between the left and the right clearly exists. When you talk about foreign investment, I ask you – how can you, by implementing this law, realize that a rural tourist household gets an investment loan from a foreign partner, and that this foreign partner has no partner here in the fund or ministry, so that he can put those funds into it, and from that fund to give to the beneficiaries who deserve it, according to the criteria that the Government will establish? So, when I said that it didn't matter who got the funds, I meant the regular receipt of funds and those that would benefit from the fund's rules, government and ministry decisions and according to the real development chances of the company, that entity, that rural tourist household, that natural person, that small and medium-sized enterprise, that will also be a beneficiary of the funds from the fund. If you limit things to one year, then you're just the ones you stand for putting yourself in a position that they can't develop in the field of tourism. That's the point. I won't talk about this anymore, and if you want, you go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14866	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14867	Whether I want something or not, Mr. Todorovic, let me decide. As far as you're concerned, you're wrong again. As a member of a political party that has had and that a lot of criticism about the work of the previous Doss furniture, you should know that since 2000 for Serbian citizens (there is a difference between us, and therefore you get fewer votes, and SRS 1.5-2 million) there is only division of criminals and honest people. As an SRS, we are not prepared to believe that this government, through the establishment of such a fund, and you yourself said that it will only subsequently establish criteria, be able to unbiasedly and without any kind of corruption (because it is obviously present in our society and is not eradicated) establish those criteria and therefore we will not vote for this fund. If a similar concept and method had been applied, and if the SRS had been in power and its prime minister, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, you know, it would have been entrusted to every full-time citizen of Serbia, including a small child -- that there would be no robbery, theft, that based on the competition, it would be based on real projects to get funds. So, in this government, everyone pulls the prime minister by the sleeve, looks for this, looks for what, everybody wants their share of the cake. We're not ready to take part in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14868	Anybody else answer for a word? National MP Rajko Baralic, on the subject of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14869	To avoid confusion, it is not an SPS bill promoter, it is proposed by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services. The ministry is personally carried by Mr Bojan Dimitrijevic, the political party SPO. So the law here which is subject to consideration came from that side. Just so there's no confusion about it. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the Socialist Party of Serbia are organic political opponents, organically, essentially and essentially possible, both ideologically and in any other respect, but that does not mean that the law or those solutions in the law that have nothing to do with ideology but the concept cannot be supported. This is about the concept. As for the amendment that caused legitimate debate and legitimate replicas in this House, I want to say that someone has to be trusted. If a single government ministry has a noble intention to form a single fund to encourage the development of a branch, which we have undisputedly found to be such that it should be supported, it is a matter of mechanism, trust, personal and any other capacity, so that you can choose to say how this thing is controlled. Don't tell me that in Golia, in some village in Zlatibor, in some village on the Blacktop, there are no other people interested in competing for these funds and don't tell me that someone from this fund won't get them and that there is no mechanism to control how it will be returned. So we can get high on that, that's a concept question, but that's not what this is about. This is about someone getting a chance. These big ones that we're talking about, which obviously our country isn't a loathsome country, who don't invest here, as they say, but invest, as it would be normal to say, because they want to make a profit, they will come if there are several important assumptions: infrastructure, natural beauty, tradition, etc. I guess that's not a question. So, between the concept whether or not a fund is needed, for which everyone who has opportunities or wants to deal with tourism can equally compete, we will always declare that we should. As for this second one, because there were several low-flying and below the knee kicks to the SPS, in a game of confused opponents and mixed pots not only get killed by pots. The Socialist Party of Serbia, its parliamentary group and its MPs are also proud to be MPs on the list and, besides being proud, they are the pride of the SPS and there is no dilemma about it. We don't have a monitoring board in any party sitting in this room, that's not possible. We don't want him, we don't invite him. The Socialist Party of Serbia is an independent, responsible and serious political organisation, has been clearly profiled on several issues and on these issues which are the essence of its political programme will also be tried in a period ahead of us to bring to the attention of a large number of voters in Serbia. It's not exactly what it says, there are regions, and in one of those, I was the head of the district constituency, where everyone's far behind the SPS. Let's look at it a little bit, let's not put things behind us, this is not the law for which we should be having these talks, and of course, when the Socialist Party of Serbia holds power in Serbia, when it takes responsibility for power, it will form a tourism ministry and a tourism minister sitting in Vrnjačka Banja, where it belongs, it will be a detachment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14870	The word has a proposing representative, Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14871	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not the turn of the SPS representatives to defend some of the provisions of the law more than we have proposed, although I thank them very much for that, because it shows that we have really taken care of some of the wider interests. However, I have to say the following thing: there is almost no serious country in the world that treats tourism as one of the priority industries without having some basic or elemental instruments available to the state to encourage the development of tourism. Every country in the world on the list of the first 10 or 20 used, more or less, some two or three basic instruments at its disposal. One incentive means for tourism development, either in the form of subsidies, which was probably a worse way, was in the form of cheap loans. Then, these are tax incentives through the release or some other kind of tax relief and, of course, they are the appropriate means to promote the tourism economy. One of the MPs here, perhaps Mr Todorovic himself, mentioned, at this point we have about 70 million dinars for the Tourist Organisation of Serbia, of which 30% or 40% of the money goes to employees' salaries, and so much for propaganda spends one smaller city in any Eastern European country. Let's say, where I was in August, Mozart's town, one of the most beautiful cities in Austria, Salzburg, has one five times more funds to promote tourism in the city, and we here have so much to promote tourism throughout Serbia. Promotion of tourism is not only a promotion of tourism, but also a question of the image of a country, a question of its reputation, its broader presentations, the same as sports and the way we represent ourselves in sport in a broader sense the way we represent the country. I can remind you of some basic facts here. One France, Italy, Greece, not to go any further, three tourist forces or, if you will, Hungary, have dozens and hundreds of times larger funds to encourage tourism development. Greece flourished as a tourist country only when it took over the model in which the state plays a decisive role in the development of tourism. It is little or insufficiently known that we built the main tourist facilities in the mid- or late 1970s, when the state invested in these facilities. If we want to have three, four or five billion dollars in foreign exchange income from tourism, like one Hungary has, then there are very simple laws in the economy, it's called the multiplier process. If I invest $100 million in something and the multiplier is 10, and it's usually smaller, then I can expect a billion dollars. If we want to have three billion dollars in foreign exchange income from tourism, God forbid, we can invest at least 200 or 300 million. One Italy invests more than two billion dollars a year in so-called. the Rotation Fund for Tourism Development, etc. A country like Tunisia, in the late 1960s, began on modeled rocks to invest huge incentives in the development of tourism, as a state. From where? From the budget. It's from the cheap loans she's been giving, etc. We were recently even in a state delegation with the President of the Republic of Libya. Libya plans to invest nearly $10 billion in its tourism development revenue, Libya as a state over the next four or five years. I could find a lot more examples like that. For the first time this year, we start with loans that will be very favourable and with an interest rate of only 1%. I have to say the following thing, the best confirmation that these economies need incentives to develop tourism is the following fact: last year we had 77 million dinars, and there were requests for over three and a half billion dinars. So businesses need money for tourism, with very serious programs. This year we will be able to support 100 projects with these 70 million subsidies, let's say, with extreme symbolic means. We already have over four and a half thousand demands, which confirms that the economy needs money again. The second question is, what you're making here, how these funds are being spent and how to control the spending of those funds. That and the mechanisms of control and the way the funds have been spent since the world and centuries have been debated and being. Of course, there is the public, opposition, parliament and other state bodies that need to control whether the funds are being spent in accordance with the purpose, whether there is corruption, abuse, etc. We can't because we assume that these funds can be used to deprive the economy of huge needs. And if happiness were, I say, in this country it would take 50-100m euros of incentive in tourism, whoever controlled it, and without it there will be no more serious development of tourism. This is now just one initial institutional framework for this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14872	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14873	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Chairman is a little nervous, and there's a colleague of Zankov or a colleague of the Angelkovics who are in a better position to chair than you, please concentrate. I'm calling in, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, the minister misread me. I believe that as representative of the SRS parliamentary group on this agenda, I should give something in favour of my claim, and my colleagues, especially when it comes to the way these funds are spent. I told you yesterday, Mr. Minister, in fact to your associates, because you were late upon your return from Vranjska Banja to the beginning of the debate on this agenda point, it is at least degutant that we are discussing this topic today, about tourism, which is for every normal citizen association on something carefree, nice. In a situation where people have a job and have the opportunity to feed themselves and their family, when they have taken care of children in schools, when they have no, God forbid, health problems, then they come to the opportunity to think about going on vacations, wintering and what the state needs and how much more money it would take to improve our tourism economy. And while you've already started to throw numbers and quote some of the developed European states, you've mentioned Libya, I can only tell you that I don't believe that their government and their president will be prepared with this authority in particular to cooperate, in the context of their truly fantastic project, and they're economically extremely capable of building some of the hotels, because there, if you go, you don't have almost anything of accommodation capacity. I have to remind you, Mr. Dimitrievich, that a check that their president sent to the DOS and then to the president of the SRJ, with a few million dollars or euros, has disappeared. Then how do you expect someone, when they have that experience, to cooperate with us? On the other hand, you compare far more developed, and economically, countries with ours and their ability to isolate, their entire economy and their banks above all. It should be business for business banks who are willing to invest in this branch at the lowest interest rates. But I must remind you that the same story was in this assembly a year ago, when it was founded, under the patronage of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so-called. A state-owned corporation to provide funds to improve the acquisition of housing loans. At that time, Minister Dinkic said it would raise the construction operation, start building everywhere, citizens will buy cheap loans to apartments. It is not today, because there are millions of hungry people in Serbia, watching how to survive, and tourism is, you know, like Kostunica said the Hague is the ninth hole in the playing field, so it turns out it's the first, right, place for hungry Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14874	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14875	Ladies and gentlemen, it's very interesting to listen to this discussion, especially when SPS MPs are so gallantly pushing for the preservation of this fund. It's a very suspicious situation for me. Since SPS MPs, there are four of them, have more ministerial chairs than MPs, I think it would be logical for the SPS parliamentary group to get that fund, that they have it, so it seems so much for this fund, especially when considering Mr Vlaovic's discussion, which made a very negative comment for the communists, that means that he really doesn't have a good opinion on them, and unfortunately, they support them, so-called. The red supporters are active and increasingly firm; as they have greater criticism, they are getting stronger. The amendment to Article 48, which was submitted by Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, is required to delete the tourism development fund, we are certainly in favour of erasing it. But in every bill of yours, it's either an agency or a fund, so you always invent something new. Of course we're not for that, because this tourism development fund is an absolute burden on the budget. If it is taken into account that local self-government has 80% of the resources achieved from the tourist fee, which means that they should invest in the development of tourist facilities and that these 20% go to the fund, and that we also have a tourism organisation in Serbia, I think this fund is too high for our own poor state budget anyway. I want to say that there are also a lot of irregularities in this government, when considering the highway planned by Mr Velimir Ilic and which has great importance for the development of our tourism; they make one big bypass, he bypassed Lazarec for the reason that he sought huge funds from the municipality of Lazarec and did not win; so he decided to take the highway through Obrenovac, Lajkovec and Ub. I also want to say that the privatisation funds, which should certainly be obtained when we decide to privatise tourist facilities, should, of course, focus on the development of our tourism, which would be quite logical and just. Your elite receives large funds from exotic islands, and winters on the Kopalnik, where an average citizen cannot, and flies on the Azur Islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14876	Here you go. Replica, MP Mika Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14877	I really need to ask an unserious question – is the tourism law on the agenda or Mika Vlaovic? Yes, I've been mentioned. And it can also be seen that you can't bring down the Serbian government, you're trying to fight us with the SPS because I told someone he was a communist; this is a new party, they're not continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14878	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radet. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee propose that the amendment be rejected, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason why the amendment was submitted to Article 48 is precisely in this Article 49th and Article 50th, but we'll talk about it later. The fund is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That means directly dragging your hands into the pocket of Serbian citizens. Tell the citizens of Serbia – yes, we form a fund and therefore your taxes, taxes, taxes and other taxes that you give to the state will have to be slightly higher, because, for God's sake, our Ministry of Tourism does not have a fund. All the other ministries have managed to build a fund for themselves by now, and it doesn't. The Ministry doesn't have an agency, though, but we'll talk about it later. Point 2) – 20% arrival from tourist compensation. Then tell the citizens of Serbia – if you happen to have money and go on vacation to one of our spas, then your price will be 20% higher, because that 20% has to go to this fund, we have to fill something with a fund, because what the ministry is going to empty fund. Further – from donations; let’s do this, if you trick someone into giving you a donation, okay, but – loans and loans from the country and abroad. This means that it allows the Ministry, or the Government, to borrow, to borrow, to borrow this country and that the funds that will go into the fund, because, God, everyone has loans, so far all the ministries have provided, and so far, the Ministry of Tourism has not. The return of generations and generations of this loan should be of no interest to anyone. Serbia's citizens should be interested. And then there were other springs. I wonder what other sources they are. What other sources are these, Minister, from which you will fill this fund? Will it be some voluntary donations that can't be donations? Will these other sources be squeezed again by some other money and again indirectly by Serbian citizens? We therefore believe that this amendment should be adopted and Article 49 deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14880	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14881	Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the Secretary-General's presentation, which, on behalf of the promoter here, explained the bill, is that this legislation requires a very important business area to be regulated at Serbia's level. But what is missing, and some colleagues have mentioned here, especially my fellow Serbian radicals, is a strategy for tourism development. We can compare ourselves to Italy, France, ministers, but these are basic things. These are countries that have, conditionally speaking, mixed tourism, have both coastal and mountainous, or continental. We have Serbia as it is, where this continental tourism, river, mountainous, banish is represented, and we have to make a strategy. We still don't have a clear definition of what tourist resorts are. The law gives a broad formulation. Why does it matter? Because in this way we make a legal prerequisite for tourist resorts, for example, Banjska spas, to have priority and advantage over other tourist destinations. We're making a catcher here in that sense that if we take what I've cited as an example - Banjska spas, then all spas, no matter what their current infrastructure is, what kind of visitation or what capacity they are, put in the same plane, have the same preconditions. The categorisation is carried out through the Serbian Tourist Organisation. Of course, we agree that there is one roof organization, we agree in a way that tourism is clearly defined and that, after agriculture, it is the second branch of priority. We Serbian radicals don't mind, but then it comes out with a real proposal. If this is the second branch of priority, then much higher funds at the government level, i.e. at budget level, must be allocated to this business branch called tourism. We need to be ahead of the law. We now have something that is most attractive in the area of tourism, which is river, nautical tourism, it is the Danube River. Where is it in the law, where is the minister or promoter predicting that this is special, that there is some extra compensation? Besides this tourism and the attractiveness of the Danube River, there are certain restrictions. If you are already working on the team, as you say, to Eastern European cities, and to give an example of the Austrian city, then we must also adopt their standards and criteria – environmental protection, and extend the protection belt. In the absence of arguments, you always have one on duty here to entertain. When you have no arguments in front of Serbian radicals, then take that one out. We've known that a long time ago. We know this man, he's been to different parties. What's a constant? It's always the same, just changing the names of the leader. Who's interested in that now? Here's the story of tourism. Serbia's chance is great. We need to know what that chance is looking at, we need to make a clear legal prerequisite, so tomorrow there are no misunderstandings. Which means the same categorisation when it comes to local tourism, or regionally, between the region that covers Vrnjaka Banja, where elite tourism is, and you will return it to what people in Vrnjačka Banja were running from. That's the average, conditionally speaking, poor tourism. There is no more poverty in Serbia, which is the most massive and numerous, so much money to afford to go on vacation. Don't even look at that category of population that no longer exists. Material and status no longer exists in Serbia, because you deleted it. You erased it by giving priority to the development of the economy and ruining the economy. You are left with agriculture, tourism remains, and for tourism you are passing a law that is at the very beginning of obstacles to achieving and how significant revenues from the area. We no longer fall for those stories that you give us examples, experiences. Yes, it is true, the Austrian experience and the Austrian example should be followed; it is a country that 80% of its national gross income comes from tourism. We already have something in common with that state, it's the Danube River, it's the greatest attraction. That's what someone said, whether there's a marina or there's no marina, and it needs to be defined by law, because when the construction of marinas starts, this law allows it to literally get to chaos. Every local self-government will have broad rights, they'll be able to determine the location, and then we'll get into a situation... You may not know, Mr. Minister, the problem, but you should ask your colleagues in the vaults. The Danube is very sensitive when it comes to any construction, especially this right bank; the right bank is this one, looking from this position to us, Minister. If you can't figure it out, there's your associates. It's always more positive to the right than it is to the left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14882	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14883	The more positive, I don't know, I thought the heart was on the left-hand side, and it turns out it's on the right-hand side, but you judge. I thought solidarity and social justice were always more valuable and important than the other side, but it's not a topic. It's not a topic or a tourism law, it's a concrete amendment and a concrete issue, because I could probably make a lot of critical objections to the entire tourism law. There are good solutions, but it's a good thing we're here to arrange this area and here we're talking, in fact, not just about Article 49, but about these three members forming a fund, about 48, 49 and 50 members. Do we trust the law to be good? We do. In the end, this law, among other people in the ministry, worked by the former head of the municipal SPS Committee in Bruce, so I have to trust Ljubi. What am I gonna do? That's the situation. But it's not just that. Be careful, one of the questions that are raised here is the question – what other sources are. I think it's a bigger observation to the Ministry why it didn't predict that part of the revenues from privatising tourism enterprises, e.g. The Traveller belongs to this fund. Because if any tourist companies are selling, tomorrow they'll sell ′′Genex′′ or, I don't know, apartments on the Kopalnik and the like, part of that income was supposed to be included here, to encourage other tourist settlements or that particular settlement or a specific tourist destination. So, I think the bigger problem is that the Ministry has to look for ways, both through the government and through other legal solutions, to provide additional funds and safe sources of income in this fund, not whether the fund should exist or not. If we want to talk honestly and if we want to have tourism in Serbia and bring more foreign guests, I don't think there should be a dilemma about the lack of tourist offer in Serbia, that we don't have a good tourist offer, that we don't even have enough tourist facilities in Belgrade, that we have destroyed hotels around Serbia. You don't have good accommodation capacity and you don't have where to bring people; I don't mean what to show them, and that's interesting what people in Serbia want to look at, but you don't have anywhere to put them when they get here. Look, when the fair is in Belgrade, you have no place to put people in Belgrade without talking about other tourist destinations. So I think the question of whether there should be a fund is not a topic at all. It's more of a question if we've secured, in fact, safe sources of income in the fund. Because if we hadn't set up a special budget item on the agrarian budget in time, if we hadn't formed an agrarian budget, we wouldn't have done anything in the agrarian budget, and we always said that little budget funding was foreseen for the agrarian budget. It's the same here. If there's no such means, it won't be good. And I think it's much more important in which way, both in other legal solutions and in the budget, we will fight for additional revenues. Where money will be spent – it is written in the next article. The 50th article says where the funds should be spent. I'll give you an example. This state should be interested in investing $15 million for the Draga's trumpet, to arrange these bars, not to have 500,000 people come out of the country and abroad, and to be on the meadow, that there are no basic conditions. Isn't that a big tourist offer? Isn't that what we want to fight for and what we want to have? It would be good if it lasted a month, three, this year will last a week, but I think the simple state has to stop behind such projects. It's not a question of one municipality, Luciana, or some end, it has to be a state issue, if 500,000 people show up at some location one day and spend something, creating some consumption, it's a tourist offer. You may not believe this, but the interest of the people arriving in Belgrade is the largest in two locations. It's the May 25 museum, which wants to see everyone who comes from abroad; it might not suit you, because you're right-handed, but that's a fact. Secondly, they want to see buildings torn down in NATO bombings, they want to see this miracle what NATO has done, and that's a fact. Whether we like it or not, it's facts. If these are facts, and if somewhere abroad when we go there they sell us some rocks, if they want to show us and we spend money to see those stones, then we use that request from those from abroad who want to come and spend it here and see what they want to see. In order to ensure that, in order to place this abroad, I am absolutely sure that additional resources must be allocated, more significant means for the development of tourism in Serbia and to ensure a safe source of income and charging of this fund. If that's not there, just forming a fund, of course, and listing the way the funding source is going to be, it won't be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14884	Same amendment, replica? Here you go. Mr. Angelkovic is vice president and assures me that you have not mentioned in any way. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic. One important announcement: please hold on Thursday 12 May 2005 on 13th session of the Committee on the Reduction of Poverty of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, starting at 9:00 p.m. in the Blue Salon. It is on the agenda to consider the situation in flooded areas, the president of municipalities from these areas will also be present. So, all the members of the committee and the members of the committee at 9:00 in the blue lounge downstairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some new secrets have been revealed here today. We've seen that this coalition and the secret support of that coalition by the SPS... So they're getting closer and closer; they even said their programs match, which means that the bigger the crisis, the closer they get, the closer they get, the more they get, with the goal of surviving this government. I find it very strange that the SPS supports the region, concessions and funds, agencies and the like. We know some of their programs, we've read their statements before, and it's really the opposite of this rest of the DOS. As far as this law is concerned, Serbian radicals have repeatedly said that this law does not solve essential problems in tourism, that this law is in fact adapting to some European legislation, because nothing will essentially be resolved. You who say that these funds, these concessions by region, will solve the problems, you are in grave error. I ask you to walk through the land of Serbia and try to reach the mountain of Golia, see if there is a road you can come to, to make sure you get to the mountain of Kopalnik; and you who are in the government and traveling by planes, that's a different story, because you know that road traffic is a mess. Vela Ilic insists that the whole of Serbia will be with new highways, but it is only a farce. Simply, tourist centers such as Kopalnik, our medieval cultural and historical monuments in the old Raskoj are threatened not only because of wild settlements, but because of the collapse and collapse. What was a tourist attraction today was left just like that. Today, some of the rich people from our country and abroad are buying our Banish springs, our tourist facilities, and now the current purchase of drinking, or drinking water they want to transport, sell, simply increase their capital, and the state of Serbia has nothing. Please, this legislative project should never have been found on the agenda, should be withdrawn from the agenda, and, above all, to arrange an area in tourism itself by protecting our tourism potentials, protecting our springs and mountains. All of what you are proposing today assures me that your goal is to pave our Serbia towards regions and certain interests of individuals and thus to create even greater chaos in this area. No one here will say that this is not an important area for Serbia, because this is a very important business branch, but in this way you are simply creating new burdens for Serbian citizens, establishing some funds, agencies that already existed. It's the only way we're trying to impose on our citizens, and we're not gonna do any good. I propose that this amendment proposed by Gordana Pop-Lazic be accepted and that this member be deleted; in this way we will improve this legislative project.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14886	Thank you, but we're talking about the amendment that submitted Rade. Here you go, Mr. Beard, you asked for a word, and then you, don't worry, I saw you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14887	I reported on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to say a few words, as I am surprised that the debate on the Tourism Law proposal is causing this much anxiety for Serbian Radical Party counterparts, and this is potentiating the relationship to the SPS. Mr. Veselinovic, our relationship to this government is not a secret relationship. We said in public a year and a few days ago that we support this government and I don't know why it bothers you. There are reasons and we explained them then. I have the impression that you forgot quickly, but I think we should remember where we were last February, and then Serbia was led by the government of Zoran Zivkovic; we had affairs from day to day, over sixty-something affairs, we had the collapse of institutions, the action "Sabbe", the state of emergency, the arrests, and it was all the result of the work of a government. We in the SPS felt that there was no need to prolong the agony in which Serbia is; we said publicly – yes, we will, we will support that government on the principles presented here in front of these people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and with the objectives set out by the Prime Minister. We see nothing wrong with that, there are no things that are above the party and they are not the first thing to support this Parliament or this state. After all, and the division that exists between us, I mean your party and our party, it wasn't an obstacle for you to support the SPS too to form a single government that would take care of the general objectives. Don't you think there's been a change in state policy towards Kosovo and Metohija, because I think it is? Don't you think there's been a change in the functioning of the state, that we've finally started to know what law means, law, justice, that these words are connected, that institutions are being built, because we've formed this assembly, we've chosen leadership in a completely normal way. Remember the theft in parliament, remember Bodrum and other things. I feel like some of you want to go back to where we were in 2003. It is not at all disputed to discuss every issue, including the work of the government, but in a principled way, not with these political flat-rates – you are this, you are what you are, you love or you do not love each other. No, because there's only facts, facts and facts. We do not run away from that story and we said – while the government is doing as it is exposed here in this House and in that speech by Mr Kostunica, we will support it, and it is not unknown to our membership or the public. If you want some other political option to come, how come you don't, here you go, initiative, debate and all that. You're the first, I think, if I remember correctly, to ask and call the DSS to give you support, you did it. Then, to put it that way, there's this kind of negative charge against us because we've supported this government on state grounds, why? Yeah, that's it. Either you can't put up with the pressure on the inside or you want to drop, but speaking positively and negatively is every MP's right, you just have to use facts. When the law is right, we say it works, when the law is wrong, we tell why it's wrong. It's not unknown, but connecting things the way you do it is not correct. The Socialist Party of Serbia made a decision a year and a few days ago to support this government and I think it did the right thing, and it shows developments. I think it is better for the state of Serbia to know what it wants and try to do what it wants than to be a prisoner of an interested group or a political option such as the Democratic Party in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14888	I'm sorry if I was careless. You mentioned the Serbian Radical Party. An authorised representative at this point has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14889	Everyone's political decision is at some point what they're going to do, in what kind of coalition, directly or indirectly, they're going to step in. The public is aware, it was no secret and you're just right there, Mr. Obradovic, and there's no reason to be nervous and to rephrase with your voice, or try to do it, colleague Veseinovic. I just want to tell you, since I am an authorised representative on this agenda, there is no head of the parliamentary group, and to repeat, you may not have been in the hall this morning when he said that – in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a debate on a specific legal project, such as this proposal for a tourism law, will be held until the Serbian Radical Party wants it. Nothing in this assembly can be done except in the voting day, when you decide whether to support a legal project or not, without an SRS. That's how you'll soon be in Serbia, when early elections occur, and they must be. I told you, the government of the Republic of Serbia is obviously running away from Serbian radicals, in the sense that it does not open a debate on the confidence of the government. I will remind you, because all MPs in the National Assembly have received a proposal from the SRS, and in accordance with their security, they should decide that they will act when the discussion is opened, that the main reason why we submitted the motion to replace the government of Vojislav Kostunica is because the Government of the Republic of Serbia, contrary to promises made both to you and to the entire Serbian public, delivered, kidnapped in pajamas and taken General Sreten Lukic from the hospital. Isn't that enough reason for all those who based their support on it to Vojislav Kostunica to consider denying that support? We think so. Believe me, when the debate opens, it will have to be one day, and one day it will inevitably come to an election, many MPs, whom Kostunica himself may now not think will deny his support because of the failed promises he has made to them individually, will be able to press the SRS key and what we are looking for on that day. The government is unable to solve key national and national problems, unable to provide security, to meet the needs of those who need assistance now most. 20 days ago, an SRS delegation, headed by our secretary-general, visited two so-called Enclaves, villages of Priluje and Plemetina, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. These people there are saying all the worst about the government of Vojislav Kostunica because they were left at bay and because they have no electricity for four months, have no basic life supplies and because they don't know what their destiny is, their fate and their stay on their hearths. They, as they indicated in the previous elections, because you mentioned Kosovo and Metohija yourself, trust the Serbian Radical Party to the greatest extent. Of the 248 polling stations that are opening in the occupied area of Kosovo and Metohija, 80% of them were trusted by the Serbian Radical Party and our presidential candidate. And, for me, it is indeed not only for me, but for all Serbian patriots, a true representative of Serbia, or its president, Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14890	The word is made by the People's MP Veselinović. I hope the traffic police are doing their job, so everyone who chases the government will do it in accordance with the law, that it won't cause chaos today when it's a game.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have heard from this group of MPs who make up most of the many contradictions, and above all about the Socialist Party of Serbia itself. One of them spoke here about how they were against equating partisans and Chetniks, and today they support a legal project, which has no effect, a piece of the rest of the Chetniks, or, as we can call them, the quasičetnik Vuk Draskovic. So you still support it. Mr. Obradovic, we know that they were the first to be ugly and God forbid that the DOS and that evil that was in 2000 come back again, don't give God to the Serbian people. Don't make it look like you're black, because you support a group of G17 Plus MPs who are having the biggest mob affairs. You support them. And not to say frankly, when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, when we last heard a word here from you gentlemen, Resolution 1244. You're only talking about the final status of Kosovo, less than independence and the like. You know we Serbian radicals were against signing the Kumanovo Agreement. You supported them; normally, they know who supported them, the Socialist Party of Serbia and the SPO. But, and this agreement as it is, we need to stick to that agreement and Resolution 1244. Which one of you mentions the return of our army and police to Kosovo? None of your coalition partners. So you simply deny yourself and create contradictions in your own party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14892	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Obradovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14893	Speaking of Partisans and Chetniks, we also supported the SRS, even though we know that the Chetnic movement is their ideological basis. This was not a problem in 1998 and 2000 because some other state objectives had priority, and that is a weak argument for this story. The bottom line is that we think it is good for Serbia to get institutions, to function, to pass laws and to begin to have at least the closest sign of equality between law, law and justice, because it was not within three years of the DoS and the Democratic Party's rule. That can't be ignored and those are the facts that stand. Let's not exploit this subject of Kosovo and Metohija all, in a way that suits the party. Remember, we didn't have a correspondent or any information related to Kosovo and Metohija until last year. We shouldn't have used the term "ethnic Cleanup". I'm talking to me, thinking of the state of Serbia and the then government as someone who represents that Serbia in international organisations. Now the situation has changed, maybe everybody doesn't see it, and that's the thing of every individual and its angle of looking at things, but the fact that things are changing, not at the rate most of us would want us to, but they're going. As long as it goes like that, we'll all decide. This government has its own century – formally, for four years, and essentially less. It may end its term when we have a point – the SRS proposal to open a debate on the government. It is something that is part of Serbia's political life and should not be run away from it. I want to draw everyone's attention once again, including the representatives of the SRS, that it is their right to say what they want and to have the political initiatives they want, but not to be more Catholics than the Pope and not to be in all things those who claim to know everything. It's not and it can't be. So we don't get to know a few things after three years, like. that the Democrats were at the SRS election headquarters on 23 September 2003, and the Serbian Radical Party was the first to announce that Milosevic lost over 50% of the election; that it would not happen that you lecture us about how you love Milosevic, and we are traitors, and you will not leave the Assembly and that we will go together to prevent him from being arrested. (President: Time) Serbia is a small country and everything is learned here sooner or later. Don't give us socialists lessons about things they don't have to do. We supported this government a year and a few days ago, with goals that have a state character and we believe it has results. Of course, there's also what the government is doing wrong, but that's part of the debate we're going to have when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14894	I will accept the assessment that the visits to the election headquarters are part of the tourist attraction and that we are talking about the topic in this regard. You're the one who called in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14895	I don't have the right to reply, because we have an authorised representative, and it's not me, but I have the right to report to the Rules of Procedure, because there's a really injured member of the 100, I'm hurt myself. So I'm a G17 plus MP and I don't belong to any mob organization. I want to make it very clear that we will not continue to tolerate that in every discussion, we mention G17 plus in a negative context and without any arguments. So, I'm a professional psychologist, I'm a very neat graduate of my education, I've worked in the profession for 20 years, I enjoy a certain reputation in my profession, and in my city, I have a family, I'm a mother of two, and I absolutely don't belong to any mob organization. I want to make it very clear to the citizens of Serbia. So, I don't belong to any mob organization; 31 MP G17 plus who sits here doesn't belong to any mob organization, owns biographies that are similar to mine, and I want to say it very clearly. With the exact same arguments, or without any arguments and evidence, I can also make a countersuit, but of course, I am not so rude as to use the charges without any evidence. So I'm asking you to keep an eye on what we're saying in the future. Otherwise, we can all speak such a language, but I don't think that's what the citizens of Serbia want to hear from us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14896	Mr Nikolic, a replica of Mr Obradovic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, some should also be able to justify a degree in their knowledge. A psychologist should assess Labus in time, Dinkic, in time, to make him a psychological profile, to know what he can expect, to recognize the lopurda, to recognize the mobster, to recognize a decent and honest man. How do I in your MP group see anyone who's honest and honest? Did I ever tell you that you're a mobster, that you're a corrupt lady? I didn't. I figured you didn't. Here, and this Albunović of yours in the back; he's not a mob man, but he's coming out to defend the mobsters. It's a good thing these SPS gentlemen remind me of the ideology, the programme, the behavior, the Serbian Radical Party, what it is essentially. We're proud of that 23rd September. Yes, in our headquarters was the late Zoran Djindjic, Cedomir Jovanovic was coming and Boris Tadic was coming to ask, on behalf of the DOS, on behalf of you from the DSS (President: Please, no throwing.) [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Allow Mr. Nikolic to address. If you need an explanation, I'll tell you. Mr. Nikolic, don't sin on your soul. All the other parties I informed in time about the election results, only the DS was uninformed. ) Here, I'll tell you how I concluded that on your behalf they came. They came to ask us if Kostunica had won. It's on your behalf. Kostunica was your president. I'm proud that our data prevented the SPS from stealing the election. You wanted to steal the election results. That night, you said Milosevic won in the first round, facelessly, and then, before dawn, that he was going into the second round and that he was running Milosevic, and our data said he was leading Kostunica with 14-15% difference. Would anyone honestly feel that way? Now you still have the same ideology, and you're still accusing radicals of not letting you steal. Now I ask another question: what will be your support for those who tried to steal? How are they not, when Mr. Obradovic here reminds me that we stopped the theft? [[Lowering from the O.R.: It's not you.]] I don't condone the wildness of October 5th, but look at you in the mirror, you socialists, how much you're responsible for that rampage. What caused that rampage? That you wanted to steal their election the second time after 1996. Cover your ears We were paid how much money we needed. [[overlapping from the O.R.: How much are you paid?]] You walk away from yourself, tell me how much you'd ask, and I'll tell you if I asked for more. Yeah, we're paid. You know where Vojislav Seselj is, you know who drove him to The Hague. We're all well paid. (President: Please, no throwing.) Time. ) Tell Kostunicas that the Constitutional Court has never declared him president and that you set the Assembly on fire to hide that he did not cross 50% in the first round. But I don't care. You steal both, just don't warn us why we didn't want to steal. Be proud whenever I come out here and say, "Well done, you didn't want to steal." Don't look forward to me if I go out there and say, "You wanted to steal." (President: Time. So, Mr. Obradic, you wanted to steal the election. Serbia fell into the dark because you wanted to steal the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14898	To this exhibit by the Rules of Procedure, the replica of Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14899	I have to tell the truth that this story makes me happy, because this is a story for little children. It's much easier to say "you wanted to steal" than what the Democratic Party is doing at our election headquarters. "You wanted to steal," so you, the great fighters for justice and legality, prevented the theft as you did in 1996 -- stole from me, and you accepted to be with us in government. When you want to explain political action, you come up with impossible things. And this thesis, I heard from the Democrats and tonight from the Radicals, that it was our fault for October 5th, God! There is also a congregation speaker who suffers from all sorts of things. Now, after five years, to say that it's our fault for October 5th, that's really so much, I won't use ugly words, incorrectly, and of course it's incorrect, that it's not worth denying. (President: Please, without a pass, the President of the Assembly certainly did not fail, but was doing his job. Here you go, Mr. Beard, and I'm sorry. After five years of talking... But well, it's not the only thing that our congregation colleagues are working with the Democrats, except they don't like to know, let alone talk. They don't like, they don't like. How to explain to the public Serbia that in 2003, at the time of DOS's largest government, radicals get media on the spot. It was an accident, probably. All in the name of democracy and progress. This is all very meaningful, except you're suggesting that you be the supreme arbiter in the whole story and events in Serbia, that you be the hat that will match everything and that your word be the last. It can't, it can't, the citizens of Serbia and this assembly will decide. That's the main problem. The media, however they work, are not all-powerful. As we learned about this in September 23, 2000 after three years, many things will surface, and we will find out later what were the causes of individual action and the like. Anyway, we at the SPS think it's a good thing there's been a change in 2004. That's good for Serbia. I'm not saying it's good for every party and every politician, but what you're going to do is what's a part of our lives, both political and everyday. We must leave our personal and party interests behind the interests of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14900	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Albianic, Mr. Nikolic. Both will come in order, don't, please, no abuse, in exact order of reporting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14901	I do not want to interfere with these discussions between the Radicals and the SPS, all I have to say is that the remaining parliamentary groups were actually on the side of October 5th, which is to change the regime then and bring democracy to Serbia. What Mr Nikolic was trying to say here, Kobajagi does not know my last name – Mr Nikolic, I am not Albunović, but Albianic and you know it well. I'm not going to fall for your ground-floor sausages. What's important, and you're being swept away in your discussion, is that I'm being honest, and you're against some thieves. I'm the loudest against thieves here, if you don't understand. Against whom I am the loudest public knows well. Therefore, there is no need to treat me that way. When you said something like that, I'll tell you -- I wasn't a member of any political party, I joined the NGO G17 plus, and then the political party G17 plus. When I was doing it for my own part of honesty and honesty, I watched a political leprosy and noticed that leaders like Labus and Dinkic belong to a measure that I consider to be good, which means doing a responsible, honest and fair job in the country. That's the point. The point is, who you're with. And I'm honest, and leaders are responsible for both honest and honest people. One more thing, since some different qualifications are emerging in the media today, it is clear now that the so-called. an affair and other things. It's clear, because they're trying to fight Labus and Dinkic by making up some kind of affair. I am responsible for saying here, the G17 plus has three leaders: Labus, Dinkic and Markovic, and, perhaps, it bothers you, we will show strength and determination in the future. It is clear, therefore, that from the moment of receiving a positive assessment of the Performance Study, where both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Agriculture have received the best grades, there is one nervousness and transmutations of the political forces to sort of bring down that stability. When trust comes to the government after this session, it will show that the government has stability and that the European path has no alternative. That's what you need to be aware of.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14902	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. I'd like to inform you that Mrs. Branka Bosnjak called, and we won't be able to make it. As promised, in exact order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14903	First, let me answer to Mr. Obradovic. We didn't enter the government with you in 1996 when you stole local elections, we entered the government with you after the 1997 election. In 1996, you had Gonzales here, who canceled your theft results; here you poured your own ashes and voted on a Lex specialise that you admitted that the election results were not valid. Circumstances changed after that. What Europe partially forgave you in 1996 couldn't forgive you in 2000. What she allowed you to do to the SRS, she wouldn't let you do to the DOS. In the SPS conflict, Europe was on the side of the SPS. In the DOS – SPS Europe was on the side of the DOS. Look, one more thing: Europe has always been on the side of the worse, and I admit it. So, graduation: the best radicals, the next was the SPS, and the worst was DOS. That's why we wrote – DOS is the worst. Now, Mr. Albunović...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14904	Now I'm warning you. This is obviously offensive and deliberate, because you just apologized to Mr. Albianić from the bench, and I didn't warn you about disturbing the speaker, and now you named him past his last name. I really find this offensive and I warn you, Mr. Nikolic. Keep going and get it over with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14905	But I'm only able to remember his last name for a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14906	Please, Mr. Nikolic, behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not bring your memory problems to us... (At the same time the MP Tomislav Nikolic speaks: Here and Mrs. Bosnjak knows about... ..... Be kind, address MPs by name. If you have a bad memory, write it down before you check in and use the time available to you. I'm sorry I had to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14907	Don't apologize to me, because Mr. Albunović put you in a group of three...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14908	I'm warning you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14909	Mr. Albunović – is that l′?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14910	I thank you and give you a warning. Finish exposure now within five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14911	You want 3,000 dinars right now? He's putting money on the chair table. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14912	Don't waste your money, please, people are hard to make money in Serbia, and I don't take anything "on my hands" for a very simple reason – because I don't need other people's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14913	Can I have 2,100, I don't have any more?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14914	It's okay, it's gonna come together; it's got, it's got, it's got.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14915	Does that mean you're gonna take it off my payroll or out of my pocket, it doesn't matter to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14916	Please, Mr. Nikolic, this is the Assembly. Don't be like Mr. Vucic, that his money ends up in the Kosovo Fund. That's good, but don't do it this way, we're having a discussion here amongst the MPs. You're impressed by that. Be kind, follow the rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14917	I do not approve of you, Mr Markovic, giving my money to the Kosovo Fund. What you took from my kids don't give to other kids, it's goddamn money. Give that money to buy chairs in the Serbian Parliament, I will be able to forgive you for that. If I have money to give for the Fund for Kosovo and Metohija I'll give it to me myself, don't take that money from me. But since the previous gentleman – who I am still convinced is Albunovic, you say his name is different, let it be as he said, so to speak – put it in a group with the people I consider to be the biggest criminals currently in Serbia, and you did not oppose it, Mr Markovic, means that you agree. And when the Erickson affair starts, when other affairs start and when we start playing ball around Mladjan Dinkic and his affairs, Mr Markovic, don't distance yourself from them, as you have the custom, but get out and say, I support these people as they are. Now, it's the sect's custom, that members support themselves as they are. I would recommend, to you honorable men in G17 plus, that you do not support those who are, but only those who are worthy, and that you do not stand behind those who are. You don't have enough evidence that the Swedish government is presenting to you. You say, "A set affair." Who set it up? Swedish prosecutor staged an affair? Did I write "Erikson" and ask for a scholarship for a child to get him into this market or was it Miroljub Labus? Did I close Serbian banks and Serbian insurance companies? Did I give Hamovic and Lazarevic $50,000 to use that money, continuously from Moscow buying electricity, without state guarantees, to earn money? Did I do that? What's the name of the guy who did it? Young Dinkic? Who introduces foreign insurance company here? You will pay a premium for a car of 1,000 euros. You're acting crazy, like you don't know. Or can it be cheaper at the alliance, as much as you want? Who closes our financial market for us... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He's opening it up for strangers. It can only be done by a heavy thief, only a great lopurda can do it, that he knows at the beginning of 2000 which island to pay him money from. Is that an honest and honest man for you? Well, those kids that went to college at the time didn't know. (President: Time. For not teaching children how to do so, but the professor provides himself. Time's running out. You're wrong, Mr. Beard. Everything that will happen in Serbia depends on us. Because it's unnatural for me to say it's up to you. You have 22 MPs, we have 82. It's up to you. It's not up to us. This was the will of the people, this is the desire of the people to sit here so much radically. And it's not the people's wish that you help this government. It's the desire of your individuals. (President: six minutes, wrap it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-05-11-0.u14918	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic, and I will, of course, always stand behind my people, as I functionly stand behind every MP in this assembly, because it is my duty and I will respect her as an institution. As part of that, tomorrow at 10.00 a.m., the session will continue. Thank you. What? Tomorrow the first one will have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Bosnjak, since she couldn't speak now. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 126 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Vladimir Milankov, Anita Beretic, Vojkan Tomic, Miroslav Jankovic, Velimir Stanojevic, Miroslav Zivkovic, Željko Ivanji; during the afternoon session of Dejan Rajčić and Boris Karaičić in the afternoon. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE TURISM (resuming in particular) I remind you that at the end of yesterday's session, and during the debate on the amendment to Article 49. The bill, which was submitted by the People's MP Verica Radet, was announced by MP Branka Bošnjak for a word, according to the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Branka Bosnjak, authorised representative of the G17 Group, plus by this point.
