ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17093	Honorable MPs, the Law on Banks and other financial organisations is one of the system laws, which regulates the work of banks and financial organisations. But unfortunately, this is the tenth shift, as far as I could see. The basic law was passed in 1993. It was the law of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, published in the Official Journal of the SR Yugoslavia, issue 32. Amendments and additions to the Law have been made nine times so far, and this is the tenth amendment. Unfortunately, the finance minister and this government, as well as the previous government that arrived on October 5th, did not find it appropriate to make a new text of the law, although here on several occasions the finance minister and others say that reform of the banking and financial system and monetary system in Serbia is one of the best systems and best reforms carried out in the area of Southeast Europe and of all the countries in so-called. transition. This reform and this arrangement or legal regulation and good business of banks is only an illusion, because the banking system is not in function of either the state, nor the economy, nor the citizens. The evidence is also the situation in the economy, the situation in the social sphere, the situation in the economy, and the banks need to be in a position of leverage, because money flows and conditions in the money market significantly define the economic situation, economic stability, and especially the social situation and economic stability of the country. In Serbia, we now have banks that are neither state nor citizen, on the contrary, which serve the excessive robbing of states and peoples. Because it cannot be expected from such banks, as they are established, under which conditions they work, without the core control of the central bank and the public of the work of these banks and the direction of the National Bank, that their function will be in the deposits that economic operators have by force with these banks, without talking about citizens' deposits, to be used to develop economies and states, and to help citizens solve their existential problems. Yesterday and earlier, the business performance of these banks and the savings, which amounted to over a billion and 400m euros, was discussed. Yesterday I asked the question, and now I'm asking the Minister of Finance and the entire government -- if the savings are one billion and 400 million euros, where is the savings directed? If we have a billion and 400 million euros in business banks, why are we allowing ourselves as a state to be blackmailed by 10 or 20 million euros or 20 million dollars, to humiliate us, to do something we're not and shouldn't do, and so far it's done? So a billion and 400m euros in deposits in business banks should be used to credit businesses and citizens of Serbia. Where's that money headed? Is it true, this is one of the data, one fact or one question, that a year and more ago ′′Rajffeisen Bank; of the funds found on the bank's account here in Serbia bought for 80m euros bonds from the Austrian state for the education of the Austrian state. If that fact is correct, then it is unconditional to discuss and discuss the function of these banks, especially banks that have foreign names and allegedly represent parts of these banks from Europe. Is it true that these banks established as branches or parts of these banks from Western Europe have nothing in common, other than the name, with these banks and only represent the kind of collection of deposit funds and the transfer of these funds or the return of various channels to Western Europe and around the world? Our banks operating today on Serbia's financial market are primarily aimed at getting as much as they can, on various grounds, at funding from the Serbian state, and are not meant to be in office as well as the state or people. If you look at how pensions are paid in Serbia, is it normal and logical, is it humiliating that the funds transferred to pay pensions every month twice a month, which is published in all media in Serbia, with the reason that the current accounts are being transferred on the same day, and the payment almost to be made the next day? We are witnesses, outside of urban centres, but it seems to them, that pensioners who receive pensions in the near days are waiting in front of the mail counters and are unable to raise their minimum pensions the first day after the pension is announced. The question arises as to what the National Bank is doing, where are these funds, if we know that pensions must be paid at the moment when they are transferred to the account and to the business banks and to the Post Office savings bank. Who's been using these funds for days? Who allows it? Who allows the harassment and humiliation of pensioners across Serbia, repeated every 15 or 20 days at the payoff of pensions? The amendment of the law proposed in these eight members is only proof that there is no will, no strength, no desire of the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Dinkic, to pass this system law, that there are no these ten amendments, with this change proposed today, to introduce order in the business of banks and financial organisations. On the contrary, with such changes in the law, which last for more than 10 years, this chaos and non-determination of legal legislation through one text of the law that will be clear to those who run business banks in Serbia, as well as those who are obliged to control the work of business banks in Serbia. The function of the National Bank of Serbia has not been achieved in the control of business banks, so we have the state we have. We have a chaotic condition. What is the goal of this situation in Serbia -- that business banks be in the role of mafia lobbys, organised crime, because everything that happens in organised crime and mafia lobbies across Serbia, both at the Serbian state level and locally, is in direct contact with business banks. All privatisations and all major transactions in both goods and services are directly linked to business banks, as no large transaction, when it comes to money, can be done without business banks. Finally, the problem of such a chaotic state and crime in the state of Serbia is both a problem of control and business of banks. It is not without reason that the current government, headed by Minister Dinkic, is seeking to destroy these two last major banks that the state and the people have. The state of Serbia, in a short time, will not have any of its national banks. What will be left of us, as a people and a state, is that, as it has been said lately, we should have these so-called so-called so. The brandy brands, the jams, and we're not capable of being a people, nor as a state to maintain tradition in the banking system as well as in other systems that we've had for decades or hundreds of years. The tradition of Serbian banking is hundreds of years old, but unfortunately, it wants to make it impossible for us, because Serbs and Serbian people are not able to run any of the jobs, except to come into a situation to be only workers who will do what we serve from Western Europe through all these programmes and strategies that should be implemented by both the former government and this democratic bloc. Serbia should be a country of simple labour and the lowest and dirty technologies should be introduced here, and those who will rule Serbia will be sitting somewhere in Brussels, The Hague, London, Paris, New York, Washington and around the world. Serbia and the Serbian people must not allow this, because we as a people have proved in all areas of life and work, even in the banking system, that we are capable. In our day, we had big banks that were world-renowned banks and they had correspondence with all the big banks in the world. Unfortunately, you who came in 2000 after October 5th and you who continue to do so in this democratic bloc government want to undo everything the Serbian people have done through history and acquired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17094	Anyone else want a word? National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my surprise who is present as an unidentified face in the first bench in the seat of an assistant or deputy minister, I will begin to explain to you the position of the Serbian Radical Party on the Bill of Banks and other financial organisations. The argument to delete Article 2 as well as any member to the end, we have given you in as many examples as those presented by Mr Cetrovic, that anyone who wants to see rationally and reasonably and who has no idea at all what banking is like in Serbia or that he was not interested until today, must accept it as a valid argument. What makes this especially potential for you? Because many electronic media have since this morning been forced by this story by bankers in Serbia, which only in one part coincides with what we have said, as regards the conditions in which the business banks are working today, and is related to this law and the law establishing the Deposit Insurance Agency and the relationship between the National Bank, as a central financial institution, thus also Governor Jelasic, according to business banks. The situation in Serbian banking is not good and it is only possible to be observed through the bank's relationship to the Serbian economy and to Serbian citizens who should use these services through the business of one, second or third banks. We have already absorbed in all these days of debate that the tenently and intentionally destroyed, by the finance minister, four of Serbia's largest business banks. Now we're coming up with the expansion of the so-called expansion. foreign banks are now, and this has been particularly intense since this morning, and yesterday, according to the press, and through the exposure of people in the area, there is a disagreement between their view of the future of the banking system and how the governor and finance minister, or the current government, treats them with such a relationship with these banks. Minister Dinkic, then a peto-octobarist after entering the People's Bank of Yugoslavia, and now says so as finance minister, promised citizens that the newly established banking sector would be in a position to improve citizens' living standards. That is, to enable citizens to grow their wages, and not to have him in real terms in terms of inflation and prices, but you know for a fact that millions of people do not work. So, if seven days ago, by promoting this very law, he pointed out his particularly alleged commitment to allowing more funding for the corporation through insurance, established last year, which provides for a credit line – imagine, the minister dared to make a distinction among citizens, that those up to 45 could enter these credit arrangements and that their effective interest rate would be 4.5% – then he had to ask those future creditors of these loans, i.e. business banks in the country what they think and whether they could fit into the new ministerial financial concept, i.e. since September, because he was used to, from one to the second and third years. Now we get to what they say. They say since this morning, and yesterday many representatives of these banks have reported that this is absolutely impossible because of such a policy run by the National Bank of Serbia, and hence the Ministry of Laws, and because of the fact that mandatory bank reserves are unsustainable for them, in the sense that they can provide such a drastic reduction of interest rates, especially when it comes to long-term loans, housing above all. And in order to face reality, because many of you may not be interested in it, but hundreds of thousands or millions of people are looking for an opportunity to solve one of their problems, and so on and so on, in addition to the lack of work and the inability to live, they don't have a roof over their heads, I have to tell you (of course, I won't tell you what a bank is) what about one offer looks like, so you see whether as MPs with enormously high incomes, in relation to citizens who don't have bread to eat and who don't have regular monthly incomes, you can also enter into such an arrangement, let alone people who have incredibly low incomes or have nothing. If the loan model is 20%, expressed in euro, with a nominal annual interest of 8.75% and a loan amount of 10,000 euros, what can you do with 10,000 euros, lay the foundation on the house, something little to build, you cannot buy five square meters of living space in Belgrade; if that minimum amount is concerned, the monthly war on those who dare to take loans at such interest rates is 88.37 euros, and its average earnings must be 176 euros. If one of Serbia's citizens really wants to solve this problem, and there are many of them, and those who are almost at retirement, so they failed to solve the problem, but people have children, grandchildren, they must count that this minimum amount to solve the issue in Belgrade is 50,000 euros, which is a mental noun for all those citizens of Serbia. The monthly war under these circumstances should be 441 euros, i.e. it is necessary to earn money, which you have as MPs when you decided to raise parliamentary salaries, 883 euros, with an annual interest rate of 9.58%. All of this for the next 20 years and when all of this is calculated they don't return twice as much as 2.5 times and three times. Then the adoption of such laws and the effect of such laws is pointless, because you cannot do with them to bring down interest rates and make banks do so, because they are destimulated by such a policy run by the National Bank of Serbia, the state in general, the Ministry of Finance. The passing of such laws is not purely nonsense, but will affect in the coming years that banks that have the same names and names in the surrounding countries, which have their own queen in some Western countries, have such business policies in Serbia because of lack of conditions for something else. Let's move on to the economy and see how that's how it is. The question is raised these days, of course, it is a burning issue not for Kragujevac but for all of Serbia, what will happen to the Zastava car factory. If one of the potential strategic partners of Fiat came out of Italy with data that the rest of the 11.5m euros from the car flag to the Fiat, then a question is raised for Minister Bubal, for the finance minister, for the entire government what with it and how to provide bank guarantees to overcome the case. It is quite obvious that the sale of certain parts of the flag that went into privatisation goes extremely badly, so at the next date, as with the "Station Flag", both in Kragujevac and Belgrade, the nominal value of these former OOURs of the flag, i.e. now separate units, will fall by 30%. And how, then, to get to that famous amount, if the Minister of Economy and Privatisation made it clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has nothing to do with it; the business leadership of the Zastava group is in some ways, seeking some international banking guarantees, a vicious circle, and time passes and expires in 2005. It's not just the flag case, go from small and medium-sized enterprises. Let someone from the Ministry of Finance come out, from the Ministry of Economy with the data on how much these companies have sought and under what conditions credits, how many of them have received and how many have started production, if everyone in pre-election campaigns are called on to be the future of Serbia, which can, of course, be one modified Japanese model; I think the state is smart and knows how to work normally and in doing so should watch the future of the Serbian economy and for future generations to stay here and work, but the question is, where is the role of the state. If you think that these, in some parts of the ill-written and unmatched with our positive legal solutions, new laws in this area will help and that all these problems of citizens and businesses will be overcome, then you are wrong, because the situation is completely different on the money market, or on the capital market. It is quite clear that citizens cannot fit even in with such a policy that banks run; they must, at the very end of the line, when they have burned to their nails, so they no longer know what to do, pay accumulated bills, provide something to the children and buy what they need for the family. Everything else is a big risk, a great danger, like people putting a noose around their necks. There is no incentive policy by the National Bank and the finance minister towards them through other models and possibilities of co-operation to enable them to operate for the benefit of citizens, i.e. businesses. That's why we SRS MPs are trying to convince you all these days not to vote in favour of these laws that, in a fundamental sense, will absolutely nothing contribute to an extremely bad and difficult situation being improved. Look at some of the professional literature, periodical or daily press, you don't have to if you don't want from your ideological prejudices, and these are all valid arguments that we make, that you trust us, although the citizens trust us, and that's most important to us, but look that our opinions and our arguments and how they match the people who are in that area every day and who are saying exactly what we say – that with such a governor and such a finance minister and policy that they run we can't expect to move either in the banking sector, nor in the growth of standards, nor in a better life in Serbia, which today is extremely difficult, and citizens see it every day and tell us about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17096	Thank you. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17097	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in order to remove any doubt about the flag of cars, I want a few facts to be put forward and perhaps in some way to announce something that will be and that for the town of Kragujevac and what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done for the town of Kragujevac. By the end of this, and no later than the beginning of next week, a contract between the Fiat and the Car Flag is signed. After signing the contract, the government of the Republic of Serbia will target 15 million in the production of future Fiata cars, which will be made, 15m euros will target the production of this car in the flag group. As for the privatisation and debt collection process that we have according to the Fiat from that amount of money that needs from this privatisation to be provided and returned to the Fiat, it is not a difficult factor for the process that is currently under way. Of course, we expect that by the end of the year this problem will be solved at the flag and the citizens of Kragujevac by the end of the year. Of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia has done everything to help bring the process to an end, especially the funds the Ministry of Finance will concentrate on the car factory. We expect that in the next few months, this problem will definitely be solved and the flag finally begins to form a car, and that will be the ′′fiat punto′′. I think that means not only for the people of Kragujevac, but also for the economy of the whole country. The truth is, I think this $11.5 million debt that we have according to the Fiat will be regulated from payment in the privatisation process. He won't be a remethyl factor in this process that's going on. So, the truth works, we have to tell what the facts are. In the talks that were held several days ago with Mr. Bubal, representatives from Italy who came to those talks confirmed that. I am obliged to inform you today here in the Assembly, as I come from Kragujevac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17098	The MP Goran Davidovic spoke. According to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17099	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you gave your colleague Davidovic a word about the amendment that I have submitted to the law we are now discussing, then he should have talked about it. I don't believe he has an SRS amendment in front of him to Article 2 of the proposed text of the law. If you gave him your word that he was talking about the part of my presentation, and it was about the Zastava car factory, you couldn't because Mr. Davidovic wasn't a spokesman for Minister Bubala, nor was he a spokesman for the Zastava car factory. He's just one of us MPs, who's on the DSS list, so he's in power. So, Professor Poscurica and my smallness are from the largest opposition party in Serbia, but the future ruling one. There is still no mayor present who is also from Kragujevac and counterpart Radosavljevic. It is truly amazing that someone is giving himself the right to speak (Dr. Vladan Vukevic, I apologize to my colleagues) about the business policy of the flag, and to speak about what the future policy of that car factory will be, and that this has nothing to do with the amendment to a member of the law that I have filed. It's just amazing. The fact is that it stands for the 11.5m-euro debt, which is now confirmed by Mr. Davidovic. He, you see, has this information from the ruling structure how much Zastava will get money from the government of the Republic of Serbia, and from the minister's statements, and for me it's the only competent in the case of Minister Bubal who's in charge of it. I haven't heard from the current prime minister on this issue. The finance minister didn't talk about it these days, so I'm going to ask him if he's coming today, because he's the only one who can tell us if and when really the flag car group is going to get that money. As for the business banks that need to help not only the fallen Kragujevac economy, in one broad context I was talking about my amendment, which is supported by facts and examples from the economy and from what bothers the citizens. I therefore refer to all colleagues who want to talk about the amendment that I have submitted to the proposed text of the law, Article 2, to examine what this is about and what the amendment is and what the law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17100	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Replica, MP Goran Davidovic, come in. I've been informed, you're mentioned personally. That's the kind of notice I got. Here you go, Mr. Davidovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17101	Since MPs are obliged to speak the truth in front of this house, then it is normal for those information that I possess as someone who is a coalition partner in this ruling coalition to bring to this assembly and to say what is really going to happen to the flag group, and above all, the flag of cars. For this reason, I have not seen any special link between the amendments that Miss Jovanovic was talking about and this problem that exists in the flag group. That direct connection doesn't exist. Then I could rephrase the question – what is the connection between this amendment and what is said about "the flag". That's exactly why I came out and presented these facts. Very soon, in the next ten days, we'll all be able to make sure of what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17102	Thank you. I get it. You have the right to speak twice about your amendment. Of course, here you are, I haven't been in the previous period, and otherwise I realized the connection, the amendment reads - is deleted, and the flag is not deleted. Is that right? It's, it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17103	Mr. Markovic, obviously you haven't understood anything, so come in time and open the session nicely. That's what you get paid for. You're the president of the Parliament. A little elementary education when it comes to the fall of the Serbian economy and take an interest in the flag case as well. Don't just come to meet, go through town and take pictures without knowing anything, how hard the people live, that there are 40,000 people who don't work. As far as these remaining two minutes are concerned, I just want to say one more thing about how the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks in Serbia will be done, which are related to the economy, thus also to the Kragujeeving flag or the Arms Factory or "December 22nd", "Philip Kljajic", meat industry that is in bankruptcy, commercial enterprises. So this is indeed the only true and true truth -- that Serbian bankers have expressed their open disagreement with such a policy led by the National Bank of Serbia, or the Ministry of Finance, compared to the fact that only those with extremely large capital can survive on the market, which is certainly one way or another under the patronage of ministers and governors. Regional banks, and there are such in the area of the Shumadian district, in some other parts of Serbia, both in Nisavska and in the royal region, and I spoke of it yesterday, have no possibility, without integration with one of these large (indeedly they will come under the influence of these laws), to survive and finance the economy, and this was their initiative since their establishment. You have one such bank in Belgrade that has been working 17 years with an economy that is now under fire, because business entities that co-operate with the bank in a very incorrect way by the National Bank of Serbia are ranked in the third and fourth categories because of the credits that the bank is due to achieve on the market. That is why we believe that this law on amendments to the Law on Banks and the law you intend to set up a deposit insurance agency will not help. The problems are really much deeper and much wider. Mr. Markovic, it just takes a little time for you to look at it during the day, ask one of us, if you don't know, and at least you know something, and so you don't run a session and you don't deceive the public to delete or write anything, when you don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17104	Miss Jovanovic, thank you. I didn't deceive the public, but I brought out a relationship that I realized you're up for, and that's just a coincidence that the flag doesn't get wiped out. You didn't listen very carefully. So, I said the only easy thing to say is that the amendment is deleted, but the flag can't be deleted. So, and how I advocated my work and behavior for something I believed you stood up for. I guess you just didn't hear what I said. Otherwise, as you know, I opened this session today, just like I do every day. I assume you all support it. As you know, I don't even go on vacations, because I work all the time, and I manage to stay with people to see how they live. Among other things, that's why today, I apologize to everyone, I'm going to have to be in Požega. Mr. Aligrudic, here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure. Miss Jovanovic, you first go to the Rules of Procedure. It's got the advantage of the Rules of Procedure, and nothing's changed. Miss Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17105	You're confused, Mr. President. First you said, "Here you go, Mr. Aligruditch," and then you said that I had the advantage of the Rules of Procedure. You can see something's wrong. So don't go out, open the session and sit down all the time. As soon as you get out and come back, you've got some confusion and you can't handle it. So, in your job description, when you chair the National Assembly sessions, this doesn't stand at all, and you misused your office as president when I finished second exposure. So, if you want to talk, you could possibly explain something to me in the procedural matter, if I didn't understand the way you run the sessions, but your qualifications about the economy, about politics, about the relationship of political entities you have to make or by the Rules of Procedure, means, in a proper way, the one you prescribed, or to report to the amendment. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, and your parliamentary group has 15 minutes. We've reached Article 2. It's a bill of law. You are Predrag Markovic from this G17 plus, leave the presidency seat. Here, now counterpart Aligrudić will use his parliamentary and business rights. That's how you use either five or ten, 15 minutes. Don't speak from the chairman's seat about anything that has nothing to do with the amendment, or the beginning of a story you weren't at the beginning. Simply, whatever you tell me after this, you'll just dig in more and get involved like a chicken in the house, because you can't connect things this morning. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17106	Thank you for your compliment for the years. I just did what you asked. So, I just explained the procedure, I wasn't talking about the subject. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17107	So, the amendment was filed by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic, a distinguished national MP. The amendment says, "Article 2 is deleted." The amendments were tabled by other Serbian Radical Party MPs, from article 1 final with Article 8 suggest that those members be deleted. Therefore, the opening provision, the final provision, which practically vacatio legis – when the law enters into force. It's all so beautiful and wonderful, but each of these amendments is seen individually, not in general. When the first two provisions are observed, Articles 1 and 2 practically, this amendment with the words "expected", in the context of a law that is supposed to be adopted, because if it is not assumed to be adopted, even amendments would not be tolerated, then this amendment is legally impossible. After all, so did the Legislative Committee, as legally impossible. There's a report on it, so you can see it. What does it say about this amendment? I read: "The National Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so meetings of the Assembly are scheduled three days before the maintenance so as to prevent the MPs from submitting amendments," by the way, it is not true, it is not three days before the holding is scheduled, "so as to "travell" such unbulful legal solutions that allow for further pillaging of the people and the state. "By the way, this same argument, by the principle of copy paste, was placed below all these amendments. What does this indicate? This suggests that MPs who have agreed to do so use their legitimate parliamentary right, so I have no objection, to submit an amendment that may be the subject of debate in this assembly, to use business 15 minutes and to talk about something that has nothing to do with Article 2 of this proposal, and has nothing to do with the amendment. That's why it would be good to hear an explanation here, which is why Article 2 is deleted. We explain why Article 2 is deleted, which is the substrate of this amendment, which is its real reason, we haven't heard. We've heard a lot about Kragujevac, reflection, it's very far from this law, the Kragujevac industry, etc. That's something we've been listening to here. It is also possible, of course, if it is not assessed by the chairman that it is coming out of the domain, beyond the agenda. Okay, it's not that grade. I agree with that assessment. After all, when reporting for each next amendment, the story will be exactly the same. I only said this because those who watch this transmission might know what this is really about. So it's about an amendment that's not legally possible, a business opportunity to talk about using 15 minutes, and that within these 15 minutes, precisely because of the diffusion of the approach, you can talk about whatever you want. Thanks for that. We expect this to continue, but it is very important that those watching this transmission know it well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17108	Replica, because your name was mentioned. Mr. Aligrudic, you spoke of the amendment of Ms. Jovanovic, by calling Ms. Jovanovic? Yeah. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17109	I'm sure you'd better check it out with me, Mr. Markovic. These want to lie to you, I won't. I can only help you manage, but your colleague has told you correctly. So he was talking about my amendment and he directly mentioned me. In order to talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Banks and other financial organisations – there is a basic text of the law, only some members are changing here. I ask that Article 2 be deleted, i.e. an existing member of the 31st Amendment, should know what the Deposit Insurance Agency means, which was point 10, we talked about it the day before yesterday, and to link that amendment and that member is closely related to the establishment of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Is it weird to you or is it funny in your shingle performance that the SRS doesn't allow agencies to be set up to cost and manage, as well as all financial institutions, while you don't watch it, group G17? I'll tell you, it's not funny at all, and the agency will have its own funds that make up the deposit insurance fund. The fund must be set up by the government of the Republic of Serbia having to give budget money for what has to be owed or waiting to receive some allegedly favourable loans. The agency will have members of the Management Board, or director of the Agency, members of the Supervisory Board, and that board, director and the entire agency will do nothing but launder money, and individuals from the group that I have listed, as they have done so far. If you can't personally, as head of this parliamentary group, which is the focus of gathering everyone else, or prime minister, to face the fact that in the financial sector, a few people, above all, this twin Labus-Dinkic, and of course, with the help of the governor, do what he does, don't expect Serbian radicals to keep quiet, that they won't tell citizens and that we'll close our eyes to affairs, in front of money laundering and the fact that someone is enormously rich in business-related businesses in Serbia. Rest assured, Mr. Aligrudić, in the debate with us on this issue from now on, there will be no stone left on the stone, which would be said, we will break every opportunity to deceive the citizens further and tell them how beautiful everything is, how colorful it is, as in Dinkic's video, and they live more and more every day. They don't have people to eat, so make sure that's the case. Learn first about this proposed law on the deposit insurance agency, and then get involved at point 13.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17110	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. (Milos Aligrudic, from the site: I was misread. ) Misreading Mr Aligrudić's exposure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Aligrudić. It's not a replica, it's misread and it came out of the bench. Please, we have to work on the Rules of Procedure, not on purpose. Be kind, please, you've answered because you've been misread and I've given you my word in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17111	Yes, Miss Natasa Jovanovic hurt her Rules of Procedure. You see, it doesn't matter if it's about point 10 and the previous law, it's not important at all, because obviously it doesn't matter what you're talking about, because you can talk about whatever you want, in this funky formulation of amendments and a funky approach, which I don't object to, but I look forward to, for the simple reason why you show your relationship with the points of the agenda and the Assembly. So it's not my controversy with you in that direction, nor do I want to talk to you about how you see these laws and what do you think they will contribute to or what they will bring to Serbia. As these laws will reflect on Serbia's economy, it will show time and citizens will feel it one way or another. We who support these laws will bear full responsibility for such a thing. So it's up to us and it's nothing to argue with. There was something different here. So, do citizens who watch this transmission know what you're actually doing with this performance methodology or not? I've tried to explain it, that it's a completely barren submission of amendments to say seven or eight times the same thing from this pay phone, and I repeat, I have nothing against it or anyone I defend. As it is important for you to say seven times, so it is important for me to draw attention to the viewers that you are doing exactly that and that you are trying in this way to abuse in a mild and likable way the business rights that belong to you in order to speak of one or eight times in different ways and to even speak beyond what is the subject of the debate of the agenda point. That's it, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17112	Thank you, Mr. Aligrudic. This was by article 101. The Rules of Procedure, which means she has the right to the replica of Miss Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17113	Mr. Markovic, since this morning your insolence has exceeded all limits. How do you know by which member of the Rules of Procedure a man came forward when he did not say by which member of the Rules of Procedure? You are now as a soufflé, but failed and late, you say, by Article 101, and perhaps he reported in accordance with Article 178 without doing so. Really, don't act cheerleading and biased, try to keep the session normal during. Coli Aligrudic, it is the point of the 13th amendment and the addition of the law already in force, and this law, proposed by Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, has just caused all these problems and has made it impossible for business banks in Serbia to lead a different credit policy towards citizens and businesses. If you had been here from the beginning and heard what I was saying, giving this example to a simple application for a 50,000-euro housing loan, you would have come up with this information, which you're not interested in yourself, so you didn't even bother to find it, that it's impossible for someone to pay for it. This law and its changes and the establishment of a deposit insurance agency tell you about it from this morning and yesterday, bankers from various banks in Serbia will not contribute to the situation of reducing these interest and making it possible for citizens to live better and to operate. Whether or not it has something to do with the law - you better, if you want so much to defend the Republic government and the fact that people live up in Serbia, to defend some counterarguments. Why didn't you open a discussion about the government's trust, so we could talk about everything? Now don't jump in and periodically try to lecture us on whether we should write such or such amendments. What do you care, as head of a parliamentary group? We have our, thank God, the living and healthy and president of the party and the president of the parliamentary group and we know how we do and what our ideological path is and how we want to save the citizens of Serbia from bad authority. Don't get involved in our business. We are doing business the way this restrictive Rules of Procedure has given us the opportunity, but we are going to do anyway, even though Radeta's colleague and many other colleagues had to be forced to write amendments until 11 p.m. to prevent these laws from being passed. Here, you vote for them, but you'll see how the citizens reward you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17114	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Please, just a moment, please, I'm explaining the procedure, I have to do it all the time: so I answered the MP who threw it away, because the MPs still haven't seen the correct membership name schedule, so I answered his name. Now it's under regular number 101 and I don't cheer, so it's article 101, I'm sorry, I just said it's now called that member. I'm helping with my work, and compared to that... Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic. So, I'm helping everyone the most natural. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17115	So, I'm here all the time; even though I'm not physically in the O.R., I'm in my office upstairs and I'm tracking the transmission through this monitor that's available to me. So, I'm listening to everything that's going on here, I'm listening to all your replicas, all your presentations, and I'm following up a full debate on all the points that are on the agenda. So, the roughest thing is insinuation, and it's not right for you to say here, that someone wasn't there, so he doesn't know what was going on before that. When you say it, make sure you take care of what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17116	Please be my guest, Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm trying to keep order by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17117	Mr. Markovic, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure one more time. You were also the last time Mr Aligrudic came forward and you were obliged to give him an answer afterwards, but before that, you were obliged to deny him the right to abuse this pay phone, because, according to Article 101, he did not have the right to answer. And Mr. Aligrudic says he didn't check in with that member, which confirms what we said from the bench, which is that after his presentation, you invented that he appeared under Article 101. We can also check in the stenogram. He did not say at any time how a member of the Rules of Procedure addressed the MPs, nor did he quote that member of the Rules of Procedure. Your job was to make your point, while taking care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, that is to say, to give an explanation of what he said and to say – you were wrong, Mr. Aligrudić, you have misused this pay phone, you have no right to address it in accordance with Article 101, because a member of the 101st regulates the right to replication. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic had previously appeared in a replica of Mr. Aligrudić, and as far as I know, there is still no replica of the replica. So all that you and Mr. Aligrudic did was just abuse, and you just did it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17118	Thank you. Although there is a saying, "Sapienti sat," I have to read, in order for everyone to be clear, a member of 101, of whom I'm... Because, from the bench, not the pay phone, asking for the word Mr Aligrudić, as head of the parliamentary group, said - I was misread. Please, on that basis I said – well, by Article 101, I give you my word. Article 101 of point 1 reads: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP from the other assembly", it did not, on the contrary, be praised Mr Aligrudić as a gromad, "cite his name and last name or function, or misread his presentation... "—that's what Mr Aligrudic called himself. The following is the position of the 3rd member who says: "The decision in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article shall be made by the President of the National Assembly". The president of the National Assembly made the decision and made it possible for Mr Aligrudic, in no other way defined. Thank you. We'll proceed with the amendments. The People's MP has submitted to Article 3 of the amendment... But since we cannot establish order according to the Rules of Procedure, the break is five minutes, and then the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. [[After a break.]] We're continuing our work. We broke up with Mr. Sarovic's office. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17120	You have re-injured the Rules of Procedure and continue in your old manner to answer those questions that no one has asked, but you are trying to cloud the situation with some wide story and lead to delusions and MPs and viewers who are watching all this. What is the essence of my previous statement in the Rules of Procedure is that Mr Aligrudic did not say by which member of the Rules of Procedure he appears for a word, not from the bench, not from the pay phone, nor from you, I give you the word by article 101. And even if you said so, and it is easy to determine from the stenogram that you did not, it is the best proof that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, because Miss Natasa Jovanovic had previously been given the right to reply to Mr Aligrudic's presentation. If there is no change in these provisions under this new Rules of Procedure, that is, if MPs do not have the right to come out after the replica, then it is clear that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Please answer if you gave Mr Aligrudić the right under Article 101. Practically, whatever answer you give, you have violated this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17121	Thank you, too. As you can see, I didn't ask you either, so you could say that I was wrong right now, to say by which member you're answering. Yes, I informed the Assembly on three occasions, and I also quoted attitude 3, as well as the first and second members of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, I hope you're satisfied with the answer. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mr. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17122	Article 3 The bill refers to Articles 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the applicable Law on Banks and other financial organisations. Practically, this Article 3. The proposal requires the removal of these members, and these are provisions defined by legal persons performing the tasks relating to deposit insurance. As an explanation, the adoption of a completely new law governing deposit insurance is cited. However, because of our amendments concerning specific deposit and bankruptcy insurance rules, we had to submit this amendment because there is only so a legal-logical continent of the entire intervention that takes place in the banking field and in the field of insurance. Provisions 32 to 35 have laid down certain criteria that obligate both the bank and the National Bank of Serbia and all others involved in banking affairs. The relevant percentages are determined, other ways are prescribed, and what is very characteristic, in the existing Law on Banks and other financial organisations, the possibility of providing deposits is provided for either by the agency or by a person involved in the insurance business. Since the proposed change was covered by Article 31 and it was applied to ensure that all deposits were provided with a specialised agency, which we talked about yesterday, that it was not only an institution providing deposits but also a bankruptcy manager, a liquidation manager and a place where the state manages its ownership in banks and insurance companies, therefore, because of this change, the practical blanco authority of the National Bank of Serbia has now been given to fully regulate it with its sublaws. The provisions of Articles 32 to 35 have been regulated by which insurance companies and which other institutions can deal with security of deposits, under which conditions and what they must fulfil in order to be a minimum guarantee to preserve the credit rating of those insurance undertakings when it comes to the guarantee of deposits. We have submitted these amendments and thus expressed our disagreement. It's not good enough and it's not good enough if only the agency is dealing with these deposit insurance jobs, because then there's practically a conflict in relation to the Insurance Act. We do not see why it would be a problem for an insurance company under far more rigorous conditions with regard to its capital, reserves and other criteria and rules of good banking business, so why would these other companies, insurance companies, not deal with this business. I have to say, as far as the agency is concerned, there's practically no limit. The agency has received a blank that authority, regardless of its potential. We will practically have pro-forms of secured deposits with the Deposit Insurance Agency, and the state should bear all the consequences of financial stability and the opportunities of the Deposit Insurance Agency. Now it is back to the basic thesis – if it takes into account the composition of the management board of the deposit insurance agency, bankruptcy and liquidation of banks, that there will also be a finance minister, a minister of business, a vice governor, that will be greatly influenced by the executive and the National Bank, then we see how one closed circle is formed and in this closed circle as an alpha and the omega of everything appears primarily by the finance minister. To complete his idea, he needed to change this law if the agency had no competition in terms of insurance, that no insurance company was engaged in the insurance of bank deposits anymore. It's the wrong thing to do if it's going towards the market economy. If they want other potentials involved, why not, and if it's going towards creating stronger investment that quasi-investment funds, then this is a step backwards. This is a step backwards. As an excuse, it cannot serve you that the state guarantees it; if the state guarantees it, then it should be within some state institution a secured deposit. As a result, you have set in the existing law rigorous conditions for insurance companies that rarely the insurance company can meet those obligations and those conditions to deal with these operations. This is how you shut down the possibility of these jobs being done by others. It's completely unnecessary, especially given the state of our economic and financial situation in the country. Of course, we suggested that Article 3 be deleted. He really makes the continent with our amendment to delete Article 2. For, Article 2 and Article 3 practically form that continent, where space is opened for these businesses to be dealt with by strong insurance companies that meet these criteria prescribed by Articles 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the existing Law on Banks and other financial organisations. You see, even with this law, you can see what the basic concept is: how do you network it nicely to be under absolute control? You don't need that kind of control, I have to tell you. There must be a guarantee of the state, deposits should also be secured with the Agency, but under certain conditions this is possible for other insurance companies. I'm just surprised that the professional public, if I may say, are people who are in this area, who are dealing with these things, who are dealing with the macro-economics, did not protest this way of breaking up the possibility of developing a market economy in our country, even in this part of the financial market. This is how we go back a few steps. The state is completely needless to take on great responsibilities. The state should be guaranteed, but if such a guarantee is, according to this system and those powers that the governor of the National Bank, the finance minister, and what their relationship to the decisions of the judiciary is, then under the parole – we want greater guarantees, we want order, in this way we promote uncertainty, uncertainty and we return a few steps back to what was achieved several years ago when it is possible to secure the deposits of natural persons in the banks of the business and other insurance companies, under far, far more rigorous conditions than other insurance jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17123	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is from MP Zlatan Jovanovic, who proposed the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17124	Ladies and gentlemen, if this Article 3 is observed from the point of view of the promoter, he is quite logical. Namely, he's tied to Article 2. The bill and, I say, it is a logical consequence and a continuation of Article 2. Article 2 refers to Article 31 of the existing Law which has been effectively deleted and replaced. In fact, in Article 31 of the existing law, in the second position, it was stated that bank deposits were provided by the Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation Agency of banks or insurance organisations. So insurance companies were able to secure bank deposits before. However, by amending this law in Article 2. The proposal was said that deposit insurance can only be carried out with the Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation Agency, as introduced here. Then, Articles 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the existing law relating to this second position of Article 31 are excessive, as they relate to these insurance companies, or other insurance organisations, which were able under the existing law to secure deposits. These members shall be members of this Article 3. The bill is deleted. Because, I'm saying, they're too high, because there's no such thing as a possibility anymore. I have submitted an amendment requesting the removal of Article 3. The bill of law, or I demand that it remain the existing state, for the reason that we do not seem to agree. The Serbian Radical Party cannot accept what was proposed by this law and by this set of laws, which is the introduction of a monopoly in this sphere, a monopoly that only allows the Agency to carry out deposit insurance, while other insurance companies are prevented from doing the job. Our disagreement is also because we do not trust Mr. Minister, who destroyed Serbian banking. Three and a half years ago, Minister Dinkic, then as governor of the National Bank, closed the largest Serbian banks, took them into bankruptcy, and opened the Serbian financial market for foreign banks. So today we have on our financial market mostly German, Austrian, Greek, French or who knows whose banks, whose capital they sell, but with interest that are triple the interest in their home countries. I am informed that these days, the Agency for the Bank's bankruptcy and recovery is sending warnings to citizens who have current accounts in large state banks that are in bankruptcy, where they are asked to settle their obligations, i.e. citizens who were at a loss at the moment of the closure of these banks now have to settle their obligations towards this agency. Of course, that makes sense. However, it makes no sense why no money is returned to those citizens who were in the plus, who were positive at that moment. Their money's trapped and nobody's talking about that money or trying to replace it. It's been three and a half years since then, nothing happens to citizens who, I say, were positive at the moment of the bank's closure. Therefore, we do not trust the promoter. Simply, everything that has been done in this field has gone badly, it has gone badly for Serbian banking and for Serbian economy in general. Since the predecessors came out a little bit when they talked about the economy, I will, with the Parliament's apologies, very briefly, but I think it's also very important to look back on the situation in one part of agriculture, which is now current in our country. It's a buy-in and rave situation. You know that Serbia is a major producer and exporter of raspberries and that it has about 100m euros a year in foreign exchange inflows from raspberries. Serbia has been building this brand for 30 years, has managed to impose Serbian raspberries in the world, has managed to break into the world with its raspberries, but today, in 2005, the situation in the purchase of Serbian raspberries is dramatic. The price of Serb raspberries is lower than ever and has fallen below all criteria, below all costs invested to obtain. At this price, the Serb peasant no longer has the expense of producing raspberries. The price is about 40 dinars, although no one declares the price, no one mentions and doesn't give, some papers and peasants are too happy if someone buys them the raspberries and gives them that paper. And I'm not saying that it's all about the mercy and the mercies of those who buy, that depending on the day of the raspberries is classified, so sometimes half goes to the second class or even the third class whose price is 15 dinars. I ask the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to pay attention to this situation in the purchase of the Serb raspberries. If this continues very quickly, we'll lose what we've been building for 30 years, so no home brand, no raspberries. So, as far as next year's raspberries producers will have no motive to continue to produce raspberries, and you know well that the Serbian peasant, or village, has brought Serbia out for all these years of crisis and that without a strong and rich peasant, there is no stable state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17125	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Just to let you know: the 14th session of the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad will be held on Wednesday, July 6, 2005 at 14.00 in the third floor hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17126	Article 4 The draft law concerns Article 57j of the basic text. I'm warning you, this is really scary what someone thought they were doing. If the amendment proposed is not taken into account, it already takes into account the current text of the law, then this article is prescribed under what conditions the National Bank of Serbia withdraws the bank's work permit. There are nine reasons in paragraph 1. Paragraph 2 reads: "The National Bank of Serbia can make a decision to withdraw the bank's work permit and if it finds that the bank does not operate in accordance with the law, as well as if it does not provide the National Bank of Serbia with prescribed reports and data on its business. "The previous position is imperatively ordered that the National Bank delivers a solution, meaning there is no ′′can′′, and nine cases are mentioned: if it is established that the work permit is given on the basis of the untrue data of the founder; if the bank does not submit a registration application to the court register within the prescribed time limit; then, for example, the ninth reason – if the bank did not allow the National Bank of Serbia and the authorised auditor to exercise control of its business. Something like this really couldn't. We have a mandatory seduction here, and in Section 2, we have a so-called. Facultative Subtraction. As can be seen, at any moment, the controller of the National Bank of Serbia can challenge and create a situation that can be compared to one of these points in Item 1 or even those in Item 2. According to the current regulation, if done, the solution set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article is final, it has the status of a final administrative act against which it is possible to initiate an administrative dispute before the Supreme Court of Serbia within 30 days. Under the existing law, if the National Bank of Serbia withdraws the bank's work permit, the bankruptcy procedure will be initiated in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy. So, according to existing regulations, that's the reason for bankruptcy. What is still interesting in the last position of the valid text – on the day of the decision to withdraw the license to work, the National Bank of Serbia will block all bank accounts. Without entering the analysis of an existing member of 57j, we said when we passed the Law on Banks and other financial organisations that we couldn't sanction the withdrawal of the permit to be bankruptcy, but then you didn't accept it, and here, I see, now it's been accepted to consider liquidation. But I draw attention to the fact that this intervention that now seems to be the bill puts in here two more new reasons, that's point 10) and point 11) – if the bank is inequitable for more than 15 days uninterrupted and if the bank's obligations are greater than its assets. These two reasons, regardless of these deadlines, have always been the reasons why bankruptcy proceedings were initiated under official duty and these reasons are set out in the Law on the bankruptcy of economic operators. So, the non-availability shown at some point and if the liabilities exceed the value of the bank's assets. So, by the logic of things and by the subsidized application of rules that regulate bankruptcy, it's been present. What was done with this proposal? These two points shall be inserted and shall be specified – if the National Bank of Serbia withdraws the bank's work permit for the reasons set out in points 10) and 11) of Article 1 of this Article, the bankruptcy procedure will be initiated, in accordance with the law governing the bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, and if it withdraws the work permit for other reasons set out in this Article, the liquidation procedure will be initiated. It initiates the liquidation procedure, triggers the bankruptcy procedure. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear criticisms about the law on bankruptcy and liquidation of banks and insurance companies, where we proved that this initiation of proceedings was in fact treated as a procedure in that law and there was a trade court, with all restrictions on the wrong appointment of a competent judicial authority, in one law and another, reported as mere statisticians. The court can never be a statist in any procedure. The amendment proposed in the last position concerning the blocking of the accounts will also determine the extent to which the bank's assets are banned until the competent court has adopted a decision to initiate the bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. the liquidation procedure. A complete papacy aimed at empowering the National Bank of Serbia strengthens its solutions, in that it can carry out its own-will through the National Bank of Serbia, and for several years we have witnessed these self-wills being carried out towards banks. I must point out that if any of these reasons arise from item 1 point 1) to point 9) that may be the reason for the NBS, in addition to its authorised controller, to determine the issue of binding orders which require the removal of illegality in the bank's business. This instance was somewhat elaborated in previous members before this 57j, but not enough. This is where the bankruptcy, the liquidation, the elimination, the destruction. In paragraph 2, it is said – any illegality. Please, how is it possible for the bank not to let the NBS controller exercise control? As you wrote here, it can be in practice: the NBS controller comes to some bank and – good afternoon, I'm the one and I'm the one, I'm here to exercise control, and this one says – I don't know if the director is there. He realizes it and comes back, and the governor, such a violinist, immediately kills the solution and ends the story with the bank. So it's possible in practice to happen. Now I'd like to concentrate on this level of changes you're proposing, you say – if the bank is inequitable for more than 15 days uninterrupted. Any bank on our market in the NBS can put it in a position to be inequitable for 15 days, every bank. How? In one period, release the reserves, the grassy decision, and increase those reserves, the bank, by the time it gets there, shows indifference. If someone who took the loan is late with the payment, the liquidity manifests itself primarily with the balance in the account. The company can be solvable, but it's inequitable, because the bill's in some kind of blockade. The blocking of a legal person is the easiest thing to do if a claim is provided to one of the charters of value in which no maturity has been set; such documentation may be activated beyond the agreed deadline and challenges also a disturbance in the account, a blocking of the account, and indifference occurs. Another reason, he says, if the bank's obligations are greater than its assets. It is also possible to happen in each bank, depending on the schedule of long-term, short-term placements, and especially depending on how the controller will assess these rankings, whether they are high-risk or not, and what degree of certainty and possibility of charging, etc. If the bank's obligations are greater than its assets – on which day, within what time, what is observed, what is recognised? These are all arbitrary qualifications and arbitrary interpretations based on how it is written here and based on a proven tendency to have an animosity to the dinar as a means of payment and to our banks. We can't close our eyes to reality. Our banks are being shut down, and these banks that need to bring their business together or get a little more credit potential so they can work on our market, just the governor of the National Bank, making them go into a change in ownership structure, capitalization, and who knows what, just to shut down and not be our bank. That's the tendency. Of course, we're submitting amendments and we're pointing out, and I have to tell you -- if you take away the work permit when it comes to the bank, since it's the only activity that it can deal with, then there's going to be a liquidation after that. Because the liquidation is imminent, then when determining whether the cases referred to in Article 57j point (1) to (9) of Article 1 have occurred, and attitude 2 should be as cautious as possible, the logical consequence of the decision to withdraw the work permit is the administrative dispute and the possibility to rule in the administrative dispute which does not affect all this because it is illegal. We already have a few banks where the governor's stubbornness is now, both of them, and probably three governors have already proven us that stubbornness, to insist on it. There is another reason: if the bank's work permit has been withdrawn, the liquidation procedure for pro-forma is initiated, and essentially not, and then the situation of the court cancels it, the institution on the date on which the work permit was withdrawn is painful, because in the meantime life has occurred with claims both with interest and obligations. And, of course, the National Bank is insisting on that liquidation and there would be no adverse consequences, and the adverse consequence is inevitable in all variants due to the quickness of the governors and the pathological desire to shut down our banks. So with this change, if I may say so, the destruction is almost complete. You can see further what is said here – a solution to ban the bank's assets. I don't understand things right now. In that law, you said, when a decision to withdraw a work permit is reached, the same day a solution is made to initiate the liquidation procedure, and in the winding-up, you said that the governor was making a decision on the liquidation. By the logic of things going to court and there you gave the court a day to make a decision within that time limit of that day. It's called the liquidation manager, or bankruptcy manager, and how someone can afford the property. You think someone will have the bank's assets available in 24 hours if they've got a solution that forbids them, or withdraws their work permit. Any banker gets a solution to withdrawing his work license, the bank's dead right now. She's out of business. Now it's supposed to make sure someone doesn't break into the bank's interregnum property. It's an impossible situation. You only installed this to further strengthen all the nebulous solutions that were made by the massacre in the banking system of the Republic of Serbia. You're aware of that. One analysis says the Belgrade Bank was not as negative as you presented it. In the banking system, the final measure is to shut down the bank, and the first measure is to order the National Bank to bring its business into line, whether it is legal, whether it is with the rules of good banking business. There's no such thing as a tantanic difference here. Why? Because there is no basic desire for the bank to be preserved and brought to such a level that it works legally, but there is a desire – or you will do as I tell you or the end of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17127	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Any other parliamentary groups under this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the defense of the amendments and convince you from the ruling coalition to press the green button in the voting day and adopt this amendment, I need a dilemma that came out this morning to clear up. In fact, Serbian Radical Party MP Natasa Jovanovic said that instead of Minister Dinkic sitting here, an unidentified face is sitting. I suppose that person is employed by the Ministry of Finance, but it's the mistake of the president who didn't present the person who's sitting here today. You know, the manager at the finance ministry is the one who stamps the documents and assistant minister. I think we've been denied that information. Secondly, I know reliably that Minister Dinkic is not available today, because yesterday, when they recorded that demo for the song "Satan" they found they lack another tone, another instrument. (President: I'm sorry, Mr Markovic, as well as yesterday, and today I warn you not to use a pay phone to advertise other people's products. When I'm done with this little depression, you'll know I'm not advertising it. Namely, it's about the dairas. I heard from the SRS MPs that he agreed with the president of their MP club to include the instrument, to be the third member of the orchestra, with the dairas. Dinkic is dreaming today, recording the song "I Dream", and the people can't even sleep, because his bowels are cramping, he's hungry. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 6 requesting that Article 6 be deleted. Even if you do not adopt all amendments to this law, and this bill as it is adopted, you would surely have to adopt the amendment to Article 6 and Article 6 delete, for several reasons. The first is that Article 6 refers to Article 78. The Laws of 20) and 21. It is a criminal policy, so the person will be punished, and under point 20, it is said – if he does not secure the deposits of citizens and does not pay the premium of insurance (Article 31(1)). So this bill deletes this criminal clause. Point 21) says – if it provides deposits to the Deposit Insurance and Rehabilitation Agency or an insurance organisation in which it is the founder or in other property and management relations with those legal entities. Ladies and gentlemen, why are these two points in this article 78 being deleted? May I have your attention, please? So he won't be punished if he doesn't secure citizens' deposits and pay the insurance premium. Yesterday we had another one of these laws that, right after the adoption, they could go to the window because they're inadmissible. Today, the banks, which are several banks that came from abroad and two banks that are directly controlled by the finance minister, are the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank... Therefore, the National Savings Bank and the Commercial Bank will not be punished unless they secure deposits and pay the insurance premium. Furthermore, banks will also not be punished if they secure deposits with the deposit insurance agency and the resolution of banks or insurance organisations in which it is the founder or in another property or management relationship with those legal entities. This opens up the possibility most spoke of by SRS MP Mr Krasic. Given that all financial institutions are in the hands of Mr Dinkic, he will not punish, for example, the National Savings Bank he has formed and which he has given all those business premises and the complete infrastructure of the former payment service; or he will not punish the National Savings Bank if it provides a deposit with the agency in which Minister Dinkic or those in this bank are in property or management relations. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, this member of the law, as well as all eight members of the law, are to be deleted by the time it enters into force, so that the law remains in force, because the members of that law have far better regulated this matter. This is how the Serbian people will be distracted, and thieving, stealing, above all, the property of those banks that are in bankruptcy, will be completed. First of all, I think of Beobanku′′, which was found to be one of the best banks in Serbia if the bankruptcy proceedings were to be completed today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since I have little time left, I'm going to ask the National Assembly to allow me to do another dissent. So far, many have quoted the great Nikolai Velimirovic, a Serbian saint, so let the saint and me forgive the sin I wish to quote him, and then I will explain the quote. He says, "God, how many are alive among the dead and how many are dead among the living. We watch every day these little reptiles without a psychological spine, watch them walk, eat, drink, laugh, sing, shout, scream, and kneel in the earthly force kneel before it, glorify it. It's clear there's no man in them. A man died in them, they're dead, and they're alive." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this quote was supposed to be my introduction to inform you of something else. In fact, you are witnessing that 20 days ago, almost a month ago, an orchestrated hack is being held over the Serbian people, both on this side and on the other side of Drina. We heard that the 11th president of Serbia Tadic will go to Potocara to bow down, as he and these NGOs, as well as many means of information, say "8,000 Muslims killed in Srebrenica". I remind you that last night CNN reported, who was watching, he could hear that 1,800 victims were found there. There's even one unfair victim to be determined, and that's a lot, but it's 1,800, not 8,000. I remind you that on June 30th "Evening news" published a list of the names of 3,600 tired civilians – Serbs on the territory of Srebrenica and villages around Srebrenica, from Srebrenica, Bratunca, Kravica, etc. The Serbian Radical Party published a crime in its magazine "The Great Serbia"... (President: Mr Markovic, for the second time I have allowed past the topic, but please do not advertise anything, just give notice. ) Mr. Chairman, I am not advertising a crime against the Serb people, I am notifying MPs of the ruling coalition and the Serbian public that there were 3,600 victims in that war, the beastly tired Serbs. So far, I thought that an MP who had just passed by here That's crazy. [[don't give him the cream to come out in replica]] Today when I was talking about this, and he laughed so much, I realized, ladies and gentlemen, that he was really stupid. (President: I warn you. ) I invite you to come to the Sava Center on Saturday at 12:00 p.m. to see a movie on crimes against the Serb people in the war in Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17129	Mr. Markovic, thank you for your notice, exactly as I warned you, you gave the correct notice. Please, don't, it's okay, thank you. Once again, I ask all of us to be careful how we react, therefore, not to you, of course, but to all MPs, in relation to what is said. Thank you for the precise and detailed notice, and please, I understand that you are shaken about something like that, but I ask you to choose words when it comes to other MPs. Does anyone else in this article want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Finance has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17130	You have heard today, ladies and gentlemen, I hope, enough arguments in favour of all these amendments to the SRS parliamentary group, where we have asked to delete all eight members of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Banks and Other Financial Organizations. I explained yesterday, and today I'm going to repeat, because it's obvious that the MP's group did not properly understand our position that we express in this way about the laws that we don't think should be passed and I'm really not going to talk about these concrete arguments, because today my colleagues, as they talked about these members, have said enough about it. When it comes to a specific Article 8, the member says the law is in effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and will apply from 1 July 2005. So we suggest that this article be deleted because we have previously proposed that all members be deleted and, of course, assuming that our previous amendments are adopted, it is a perfectly logical trail to adopt this amendment. Even if this member remained, it is not possible to apply the law from July 1st 2005, as it passed on July 1st 2005. Of course, someone may say that there is an amendment from counterpart Nenad Bogdanovic who has become an integral part of the law, but I am not talking about this amendment, I am talking about the seriousness of the government as a proposing and, of course, the president of parliament who had to make sure that such proposals do not appear before the MPs. I would like to say that I have the impression that fellow MPs from the parliamentary majority show impatience when we MPs of the SRS talk about government proposals and amendments to government proposals. You seem to have expected that by adopting that extremely restrictive Rules of Procedure, in which you have limited the rights of MPs, I don't know how you meant it, you would choke the parliamentary majority of the SRS in the sense that we won't be able to come to terms, that we won't be able to say what we think about the proposals made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, you can bring whatever Rules of Procedure you want, as long as the National Assembly is as long as there are so many of us, and surely there will be more and more of us in this House, no one can stop us from saying what we think. You made it possible for your Rules of Procedure not to have to sit in parliament, and we told you about the Rules of Procedure what we had when we talked about it and when it was on the agenda, and if you don't have the patience to listen, go for a walk, go to a restaurant, go where you're going, that's your business, your relationship with the obligations of the MP. Yesterday, a discussion was started here, and that is why I am saying this, and this morning it was continued; I have written down everything in which my colleagues tried to downplay the work of the Serbian Radical Party's MPs. Of course, they can't do that, no matter how much they express their opinion on this speaker, but it's really extremely democratic, and it's not in the spirit of parliamentaryism that our colleagues say about our amendments that it's a misrepresentation of the amendments, that this is an abuse of business rights, that it's spoken seven or eight times the same, that the amendments are being rejected with an abomination, that we, explaining the amendments, are obstructing the work of the National Assembly, etc. Indeed, because of the public of Serbia, I would like to say, first of all, that everything that my colleagues said yesterday and today is completely contrary to such a restrictive rules of procedure, that it is completely contrary to modern parliamentary democracies, that the MP not only has the right but also has the obligation to present to the assembly speaker the views of his parliamentary group, the citizens who chose MPs to sit in parliamentary benches, and we SRS MPs have always done this extremely securely, extremely seriously, and we will continue to do so in this way. If it's funny to one of you, if one of you doesn't listen, I repeat, you don't have to listen to us. If we have seven or eight amendments to a law that has eight members and if we say that each member should be deleted, it's an incorrect finding from this morning to repeat the same story eight times. Each MP of the SRS parliamentary group in his own way, but of course justified, reasoned or amended, which he himself submitted or the amendment submitted by one of our fellow Members. In this way, by proposing that individual members of a law be deleted, we are merely showing the principled position of the SRS parliamentary group according to a concrete government proposal. It is impossible and it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure that the Legislative Committee says that our amendments are legally impossible, because it stands in the Rules of Procedure exactly when the amendment is legally impossible. These amendments by the SRS parliamentary groups with other colleagues are written by the excellent lawyers of our parliamentary group and we do not accept that colleagues who are also lawyers, I allow them to be good lawyers, distract the people and to misinformed the citizens of Serbia and the public of Serbia that our amendments are legally impossible. The amendments of the SRS parliamentary group are all meaningful both in spirit and in line with the Serbian Radical Party programme, and then that means in line with what we citizens of Serbia have been saying in each election campaign. We are absolutely certain that this is said by our number in the parliamentary benches, this is also said yesterday by the published results and daily published results on the rating of political parties and leaders of political parties. We Serbian radicals act absolutely according to what the citizens of Serbia expect from us. I call upon all colleagues to have a correct relationship, not to allow themselves to succumb to some low passions to demean our work, because on our work, your work, on the work of every MP and every political party the court will give to the public in some subsequent elections. Of course, we are fully convinced that our work will be appreciated much more than your unhappiness. We don't point out when we're talking about this pay phone as much as you don't, but you're trying to detract and demean what we're doing. Please, if you're talking about democracy, if you're talking about the European Union, if you're talking about modern parliamentary democracies, then act like one. The rules and regulations you propose and adopt here do everything the opposite of what you represent in public, em in a very rude and uncultured way you are trying to put us MPs of the Serbian Radical Party to a group of non-working MPs who are obstructing the work of this parliament. I'm telling you, I repeat, we are doing very seriously, that this is our relationship to Parliamentism and this Parliament. Whatever you think, we will continue to participate in the work of this parliament, we will continue to submit amendments to every law and every member of the law, unless it is in line with the views and programme of the Serbian Radical Party, because we are fully convinced that the views and programmes of the Serbian Radical Party are what is only good for Serbia. And not only do Serbian Radical Party MPs think that it is obvious from data on the Serbian Radical Party rating; Serbian citizens accept what we say about this speaker, what we warn you about, what we warn the assembly majority about, what we warn the Government of the Republic of Serbia about. We are dissatisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but not because it is a government made up of parties that are our political inexperiences, but because Serbian citizens live much worse than when this government is ruling in the Republic of Serbia. So, it's not about any bickering, trying to talk here, colleagues who have no patience to listen to us, but they don't have to, because the Rules of Procedure allowed them not to listen to us, but it's about us being reasoned about what's not good at the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since we do not have a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia present at our sittings, we cannot directly address the representative, we cannot ask him directly, we can suggest that he listen to us and accept some of our amendments, then we must address you colleagues to try to understand and accept what we are trying to draw attention to through the amendments and to accept amendments from the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary groups. This applies specifically to all these amendments on the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank Act. We need to oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop playing more with changes and additions to the law, and to propose system laws, to in one systematic and comprehensive way regulate certain matter and a certain segment of social life and, based on such application, Serbian citizens finally start living better. We can't get anything like this by law. We all remember our promises from the time of DOS's arrival to power in how many years we will buy apartments, how many years of house, how many years of furniture, cars, etc. All those years have expired, and until today it should have really been so, that all citizens in Serbia have apartments, houses, furniture, cars. Unfortunately, every day there are more and more citizens who do not have the bread to eat, let alone use such expensive bank loans as can barely be submitted by MPs with the salary of MPs, and let alone citizens who do not either receive pay or receive much less than that average. You know, the statistical average is something that doesn't match the real state. I don't have to explain it to you or to the citizens, everyone knows, the public of Serbia knows, every single person knows when he received his last salary, how much his last salary was, how much he collects between two salaries in the meantime. Of course, in order to stop all of this, to prevent this and to finally force the Government of the Republic of Serbia to work in the interests of Serbian citizens and not in the interest of some government or tycoon ministers who support groups in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are submitting amendments, we propose, in principle, how certain matter should be regulated. We spend a lot of time, a lot of knowledge and experience to explain it to fellow MPs. I call on you once again, accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party. Take us seriously, because Serbian citizens take us seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17131	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I join this appeal with a lot of respect. All commercial rights belong to all MPs. Of course, the Rules of Procedure are highly restrictive towards Members of the so-called Parliament. The ruling coalition, but it is perfectly understandable that all MPs have a full right to explain their political position. Once again my huge apology, but simply the president can't go any other way than to pass the kind of law he's come to. You're absolutely right, it said – July 1st, but it was corrected in one way or another, and that's what you said, Mrs. Radeta. Under this law, there are no amendments anymore. Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the Proposer's representative want to give the final statement? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Security and Financial Export of the Republic of Serbia (Serbs) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Vlahović, Mita Avramov, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsic, Igor Bečić, Branislav Blažić, Milorad Buha, Milan Vesen Vladimirović, Boban Vojnović, Milivove Vuković, Gordana Gajic, Rodoljub Gačević, Darko Glisic, Jovan Daja, Stevica Dedjanski, Milos Dišić, Momcilo Duvnjak, Goran Dunjic, Milomir Dunjic, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Miodrag Djordjevic, Tihomir Đuričić and Dragan Zivkov. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Mit Avramov submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić. I'm taking the opportunity to inform you, under Article 85 of Sections 5 and 6, because of the assembly's obligation to complete the work by these laws as soon as possible, to schedule a session at which the rebalancing will be brought, and today we will be working after 18 hours, at that point that begins. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Machine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17132	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am reporting for the amendment submitted by Mr Mita Avramov to Article 1. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Export Finance in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment proposes that Article 1 of this proposal be deleted. Article 1 reads: "To encourage and improve exports and develop the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with abroad, the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia is established. "The Serbian Radical Party is generally against the formation of parallel institutions, primarily the formation of agencies that have the primary meaning of the arrest and employment of party activists or other officials. The experiences we have in the past, precisely from formed agencies and people working in those agencies, say that we are right, because in a large number of agencies, unprofessional people work, and the work of these agencies is already causing certain disturbances in the functioning of certain activities. I can set an example of the Agency for Medicinal Products, given that I am a veterinarian, and I know very well how many problems veterinary professions and people who are involved in the traffic of veterinary medicinal products due to inadequate functioning and the agency involved in drug testing. But since this is about an agency that needs to secure and financially aid exports from the Republic of Serbia, certainly the SRS supports the state in terms of finding an opportunity to stimulate exports, above all, by which we are recognizable on the world market, thus creating certain brands and, ultimately, what will bring significant foreign income. However, we are opposed to the establishment of the agency, and that this country has experience in this sense stands in the reason given under this law, where it stands decadently, I will read – our country was among the first developing countries to start implementing the system of lending and insurance of exports and investment abroad, so that in 1957 it is taken as the beginning of export financing. From 1957 to 1965, the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade had the function and jurisdiction of the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, later "Yugobanka"; from 1968 to 1979 that function was held by the Fund for Crediting and Insurance of Certain Export Affairs; eventually, from 1979 to 1997, that part of the job was carried out by the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Co-operation, in accordance with special laws. It was not until 2000 to 2002 that there was a particular vacuum, but in 2002 there was an establishment of the Insurance and Financing Fund for Foreign Trade. Therefore, certain experiences, ways and procedures exist. Only this country should have been more actively involved and helped to export certain products, and in my view, above all, these are agricultural products. We were the rest of us, and I think that in the future we'll be the primary agricultural country, so on the world market we can show up with agricultural products, while in some other areas we have humble range. Of course, there is a certain number of other raw materials that we export, and we export the goods from 27% to 30%, while the equipment is very modestly exported to the world market – it is from 4% to 9%. The argument given is that it is necessary to establish one such state agency that will support exports and will have a foothold, above all, in the budget, i.e. will be covered by budgets or budgets; each fiscal year or every year when the budget is adopted, certain funds will also be allocated for those purposes. However, Article 8, which lists the Agency's funds, states that most of the funding sources of this agency are dedicated loans from international financial organisations, then donations from domestic and foreign legal or natural persons and other sources, in accordance with the law. Some 25m euros are planned to form this agency under the law. According to Article 8, the majority of these funds will be provided by new borrowings from international financial organisations. I wonder if, in addition to all the other duties that this state, especially this government, has created, we should re-engage to form one such agency. For the tasks that the agency needs to carry out, this state, above all, could find a very different, more appropriate way in the current situation, to finance export operations. I think there is absolute government concern in helping finance exports of certain, above all agricultural, products. I want to keep your attention and, in fact, the public's attention and say we're about to harvest. Two days ago on the Committee on Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture announced that we currently have over 500,000 tonnes of wheat last year, and the harvest is about to begin. Neither the state nor the processors show any interest in this new crop of wheat, and the state explains that for some subsequent period there are supplies that will ensure the diet of the population and simply there is no need for state care for the breeding of wheat this year, although in all recent years, this has in some way been understood. If the state wanted to help the agricultural producers, above all the farmers producing wheat, then it could have found a way to help make sure that the excess wheat already in existence since last year is exported and through this provided for the possibility of buying this year's genus. Now, we've come into a situation where we don't know what's going to happen and what can be promised to the villagers. I hope that we will all be witnesses, and we MPs, in the end, the general public, how our agricultural producers will react the moment they start making wheat, where to store it, who to offer it to, where to sell it, and at what price. It's a similar situation with strawberry fruit. Mr. Jovanovic pointed out the problem that will happen this year. Also, it has been said in public that certain spares of strawberry fruit that are not exported to this harvest in the freezers. The state could have done so beyond this agency, as there were ways, mechanisms, procedures, eventually and in the agrarian budget, part of the funds for the promotion of agricultural exports were allocated this year. I ask the Minister of Agriculture and all others, above all the Government, why these funds were not used to export the excess agricultural products, but to wait for the formation of one such agency, which is reportedly going to solve all the problems that have not been resolved so far. I therefore believe that it is not directed and appropriate in this time to form such an agency that will do these jobs, although it is argued that similar solutions have others, but it is said that in Croatia there is a Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in Slovenia it is a Slovenian export corporation, in Slovakia it is Exim Bank, etc. So it's not an experience, it's not a rule that in the surrounding countries only agencies do it, that agencies are founded, but that banks or insurance companies are primarily working, means those institutions that have capital and are, in fact, institutions in mixed property, mixed ownership, not exclusively state property. I think the goal of forming this agency, as well as most others, is to find the catch and employment primarily for the people of this ruling coalition. For these reasons, SRS MPs do not accept the establishment of such an agency, and that is why they proposed amendments to each member and suggested that they be effectively deleted, which means that we do not accept such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17133	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17134	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I understand the desire of the legislator of this law to transfer a certain job that he should do to someone else. It started on October 5th to open new agencies. There is now an agency that needs a great deal to help businesses and citizens, to secure exports, secure placement of domestic goods on the foreign market, safe collection and domestic goods, to facilitate contacts between exporters and possibly some foreign partner who would buy these goods, and to do so requires certain budget funds. The funds will mainly be spent on employees' salaries. The question now arises – since we already have one similar agency, why are we now opening an insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia? Article 1 concerning this amendment states: ′′To encourage and improve exports and develop the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with abroad, the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia is set up. Let's say it's just like you wrote it. So what's the Export Promotion Agency for? What has she done so far? Did she help domestic producers who want to place goods on the world market? Did she spend money on the Republic of Serbia's budget for that? Yes, it is. What's the score? The largest deficit since Serbia exists, nine billion dollars in imports in 2004. In 2005, something is slightly weaker, and this is more due to the introduction of VAT and market failure, i.e. enough capital on the market to sell all imported goods. So, the Export Promotion Agency had no role and no effect and is still on the Republic of Serbia's budget, still spending money. Now we're setting up a new agency to do the same job. What if those two agencies don't work together, if one of them makes one move and the other one? Why do we need two such agencies that are going to spend money, and the result of spending money as far as the first agency is concerned is no, defeating, exporting literally does not exist, the real export. The exporting of raw materials or semi-products is not export. Export is when the finished product is exported. Since there's no more time, I'll report later to the other amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17135	Is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word is made by the People's MP Dragoljub Anastasovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. I have made an amendment to Article 2 and request that the member be deleted. The formation of the agency is pointless, especially in such a difficult economic situation, when salaries do not reach 200 euros, when hundreds of thousands of workers do not work, and pensioners become more and more social cases. You form agencies for all and all things in which you will hire exclusively party activists, build up a clerk who is also too bulky, and workers are left out of work every day. The government of the Republic of Serbia does nothing to create conditions for reviving the economy. This would encourage and improve exports and the development of economic relations with abroad. Instead of resuscitating the economy, the government has access to a non-profit agency, which will do nothing, but will be financed from the budget and thus we will have another parasite. The amendment is submitted due to the Serbian Radical Party's principled stance against the formation of parallel authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17137	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17138	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law now on the agenda, to set up an agency for insurance and financing exports of the Republic of Serbia, is a new polygon for robbery by the future management structures of the agency. I must inform the public, although it was done by SRS MPs when they spoke in principle, that this would cost citizens of Serbia 25m euros. Do a little compression. A few days ago, the prime minister boasted, as well as the finance minister that 800 million dinars were allocated to reform the business flows for Kragujevac, Vranje and Bor. Look at how much funds it takes to get this agency working. During the principle debate, neither the finance minister nor anyone from the board or the governing structure answered the key question – Article 2 speaks of what the agency will be called and how it will operate, so Article 2 says, what a colleague Anastasovski asks to delete – where Serbia is 25 million and whether these 12.5 million euros (50% and we will talk later, in Article 7 it is defined) for the establishment of the agency, which must be immediately paid out of the budget, exists in the current budget. I am telling you that there is no such amount, I have checked with my colleague Arsic, who has a small-fingered budget of the Republic of Serbia, because the money for the current financial year was allocated only to the Export Promotion Agency, which he was just talking about. The budget rebalance, which you are talking about, will include 12.5 new millions of euros, just to start, and then another 12.5 for the establishment of this agency. On the other hand, the question is, what are you... Except that it will be an excellent opportunity for individuals to manage that kind of money and the one that will be poured out, because Article 2 paragraph 3 says the agency's short business name is the insurance and export financing agency a.d., the company. Who are the shareholders? It doesn't say anything in the law. Hamovic, Lazarevic, new Serbian tycoons, friends of the finance minister, friends of the agency's director, the future? Someone has to explain it to the citizens of Serbia. Why did 12.5m euros not immediately go as the intervention aid for the most socially vulnerable, why didn't you give for other cities in Serbia for economic recovery, but for those poor 800 million? Why do we need an agency with a name like this and stockholders like this? The essence of the problem in Serbia since the DOS came to power, and these problems are only multiplying, the continuity of such a policy is present with Kostunica's government and people who run both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business and all others in charge of this area, meaning that nothing seems to be in the overall macroeconomic policy and its change in Serbia. That's what bankers, various economic experts, have been talking about these days. What exactly does that represent in the broadest sense? If you say there is no macroeconomic stability in one country, as in the state of Serbia, then you have to look for the reasons why it is and how they should be removed. All economists, especially those operating in the domain of foreign trade policy, know that the placing of products on the foreign market requires much more than this money laundering, i.e. a new levy on citizens planned for the establishment of this agency. Imagine now what the situation of Serbia has been in the past five years and what a perspective with this policy and this ruling structure, if the external trade deficit is increasing more and more yearly. If you put a sign of equality between imports and exports, then you can say to yourself that you are successful legislators, that you are a successful government. Since this relationship is not disturbed, but really depressing for the Serbian economy compared to the external trade deficit that is being recorded, which is 80-20, maybe 90-10, so when it comes to this import lobby and what they are using, then you see where we are as a state and what we should do. The Serbian Radical Party spoke a lot, and Mr Tomislav Nikolic also said in his presidential campaign, and so do we in the campaign for parliamentary elections for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and we have, unlike all of you, thought of this ruling one, without talking about the previous DOS furniture, a much more normal and rational approach when it comes to improving the macroeconomic plan. Not only is there not a will, but someone deliberately and systematically destroys the Serbian economy. Because, if you boasted, a few days ago, this Aligrudic came out of the Rules of Procedure at the beginning of the session and boasted that Bush has explicitly approved exports of over four thousand Serbian products to the US market, then to support this alleged success, which means nothing, because the economy is ruined and there is nothing to be exported, one of you should come out, or at least competent from the ministry, and to say what we will first take out to the Americans or those who cry out for Serbian products. In this complete global and market economy, which is forced and mostly financed by America, where is the Serbian economy, and what does this government do to ensure that ′′made in Serbia will have a world market pass? If you know the fact, and I suppose it is, that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed a free trade agreement with the Russian Federation in 2005; if the DOS came to power in 2005 and you deceived citizens, and you continue to do so too from this short-lived DOS, how all the doors are open, how everyone looks forward to you and the investments arrive, explain why there is no placement of Serbian products on, say, the Russian market. Why did Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica only remember after a few years of their rule to go to Moscow and meet with Russian businessmen? He declared himself an ambassador to the Serbian economy, the president of the Republic of Boris Tadic went there to take a picture, was two days and returned. There's no specific contract. We didn't export anything to the Russian Federation market in the meantime. So what's this about? It is not enough to send you George Bush a message and say – you can, it is specified, four thousand of some products to export to our market under privileged conditions. But what products? Don't play here with the feelings of Serbian citizens who are really on the verge of patience and with workers who work in these companies that the state doesn't care about, where production is not stimulated. What was recognizable to everyone when they wrote in ′′made in Serbia, for some products that at the time we had that federal state were and how esteemed and recognizable, are now wiped out, it's gone. Who's the one who's gonna promote that? Boris Tadic? Vojislav Kostunica? A minister like the finance minister with the establishment of this agency? Don't make fun of us, really. What do you give as an explanation? Instead of being ashamed of what you have to write, for not listening to what the Serbian radicals told you when the Belgrade Agreement was adopted and when the Constitutional Charter was adopted, you find it as a reason and justification for why you set up this agency. You say -- federal law was passed in 2002, the fund does not exist and does not work, because the state union of Serbia-Montenegro does not have a common budget. Why isn't he here? What doesn't have a single market when it comes to trade? Why is there no single monetary policy? Why is there no single foreign trade policy? Why doesn't Milo Djukanovic let our mineral water producers know that the goods are going to the Montenegrin market? These are all questions for you, which you are unable to resolve. The easiest way is to close our eyes over what's doing the criminal click in Montenegro, we say -- it can't work, let's start a fund, 25m euros. Well, if the finance minister is ready, and he's not, because he's not here today, he just went through the Assembly yesterday, to say what the product list is and to say – 10, 20, 30 will be forced and exported to the Russian market. The Americans are offering to you, they'll be exported to someone else. There's no such thing. No, because what people did last year was relatively successful, with a disputable course of dinars, I can't do this year. Now who are you going to make export raspberries with a ransom price of 40 or 60 dinars for first class and this kind of dinar rate growth compared to last year? Do you know what the purchase rate of the euro is today? Almost 84. What are you talking about? If it goes on like that, then you're going to do a further detimulation of those who want to export. You have to speak the language of the fact that you say -- the foreign trade deficit is that big, and it's much bigger than last year, and it's recognised by the finance minister. You have to say, industrial production was so big in 2004 and so big in 2005. Why even make a comparison just compared to a year, go back to 1998 and 1999. Do you want me to bring you a review of the operations of certain companies under sanctions, when each of these businesses had to deal with various ways, and then there were more exports than it is now. Don't talk about some things that aren't based on the language of numbers and facts. When it comes to this law, it is truly amazing that you want to give consent to start a 25m-euro start-up company, in order to allegedly stimulate exports. It's nothing but another robbery. For example, some Serbian producers who fail because of such a policy, and the policy of the course of dinar and fiscal policy, and the inability to take favourable loans and because the state does not allow them to place their products, it is obvious that it systematically collapses and destroys the Serbian economy. It's gotta end sometime. When will the end come? When Serbian radicals take matters into their own hands. If it comes soon, and there will be an emergency parliamentary election, citizens, as in a much larger number understood our clear messages, will understand that it is not enough for someone to say that it is supposed to make it easier for you to say – we will place the goods on that market. Something has to be produced. To export, there must be production, and it has become less and less in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17139	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? By amendment or replica? The authorised representative at this point is Mr Matic. Here you go, Mr. Matice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17140	Ms. Jovanovic mentioned that only now is the President of the Republic and the prime minister trying to make contact with Russia, in the sense that this is necessary because economic co-operation needs to be revived. I will just remind myself that President Kostunica, even as president of the SRJ, made contact with the Russians, even had several meetings with Vladimir Putin, president of the Russian Federation. I want to correct something we heard in my predecessor's speech. Otherwise, the predecessor tried to explain the amendment that was written in two words: "is deleted", with a bunch of words, unfortunately, with some untrueness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17141	Replica, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17142	Mr. Matic, a few days ago, he made it clear to you that Tomislav Nikolic, president of our parliamentary group, had no reason to spread the front in such a way as to affect political insinuators, because you still need to stick yourself in a mouse hole and keep quiet. You're the backbone of the governing structure, and you're not doing anything to change this condition. When we continue to talk about the amendment to Article 3 and so on until the end, you will see, through the arguments that we will present to you, and you are the authorised representative of your parliamentary group, but you are not in the role of the finance minister who has proposed this law to us. I would not agree that all of your MPs, who will have to vote under the directive, are also supporting the establishment of an agency with 25m euros that will reportedly allow for better exports from Serbia to interested foreign partners. It's simply not possible in this way, because it's unclear to us, and that's the elemental thing when you vote for something, who's going to stand behind it and who's your future shareholders. It's not simple stuff. Why is there no placement on the Russian market and on other interested markets, data on the production itself, both in your city and in my and in all other cities in Serbia are talking about it. I know in particular, during the DOS government – just before the NATO Pact aggression and during the sanctions were placed on its feet the textile industry factory "22 December" Kragujevac and certain quality contacts were made and pre-negotiated with potential partners on the Russian market, which, just like the Germans, had done a lot of business with this once famous textile factory – all of this has been interrupted, frozen and since then absolutely no placement on that market has been placed on the market. And not only are there easier, but one contract that makes it possible for colleagues Arsic to export and semi-products and, above all, finished products that are both attractive to that market, which they are forced to buy in a much lower quality and much more expensive than some former so-called. Socialist countries that have more unfavourable contracts with them, but we don't use it. It's a reality and it's a cruel reality. Of course, nobody's happy about it. Our appeal and our criticism is just about having to change that. As time passes, and it's been a year and a half, nothing has changed. The result is a devastating, even greater external trade deficit; so our arguments are stronger. We know that citizens believe what we're saying. When we get to agriculture and agricultural product placements, not according to Karic's charlaza, stories and delusions, but with real data on why it's done and who's that import lobby that brings everything here and everything when it comes to agricultural products, you'll see that we're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17143	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Slavoljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17144	I don't think you had the right to a replica, since I've replicated to you a moment ago. I volunteered as an authorised representative who considered it appropriate to answer your questions. That's why I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Jovanovic had no right to reply, because I was replicating her. I tried the chosen words and in one normal tone to point to something that you claimed. Not just me, but the whole audience can confirm that you were wrong, that you made the wrong facts. So Vojislav Kostunica made contact not only with the Russian Federation, especially President Putin, but ran a large business delegation even in the Far East during 2001. I agree that from that position it was not possible to organise economic life in Serbia, Montenegro, the Federal Republic, but I suppose these attempts meant something and made it possible for the first contacts of our businesses with international factors, especially with factors from the east. I think we should do it in the future. So, while we were talking to the leaders of Russia, Putin, the leaders of China, you spoke to Zirinovski, so I would like Miss Jovanovic to explain the results of the co-operation with Mr Vladimir Zirinovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17145	Replica, National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17146	Mr. Matić, this is an air-conditioned field, I mean what they're authorized to do. Don't engage in a Russian political scene, you don't know anything there, or who's in power, or what parties have as many MPs, or MPs in the Russian State Duma. You know, I'm one of the better acquaintances of these opportunities and because I've been interested in this as a Parliamentarian for years, because I've been there, and because I've had the honor of attending the signing, so to speak, of this contract that I was talking about, back in 1998, before the bombing, as an MP for the SRS, then a member of the Committee on Economic Relations at the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly. The truth hurts, but I just need to remind you that since 2001, representatives of the then DOS, above all DS, have not only declared your president, then the president of the SRJ, from all economic and other flows, but you had to go past Natasa Micic and leave your MP cards because you were expelled from the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17147	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17148	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have yet another attempt to create parallel institutions. Unfortunately, what the SRS has been saying for a long time – the Ministry of Finance and Mr Dinkic are trying in every way to control all flows of money and all the money that this country possibly has. I must say that you, in addition to this agency proposed by this bill, have here three other institutions or agencies dealing with export problems in a direct or indirect way. I would like to list it now: it is the Insurance and Financing Fund of Exports, first of all, which has been doing this job for over a year and has achieved some results, and according to the assessment of some foreign factors and enviable results; then, we have the Agency for the Promotion of Export Investments of Serbia and the Guarantee Fund which should actively participate in export business and in business-related businesses at all. So, in addition to these three institutions that were to produce some results in their work, and so far they have spent taxpayers' money, this bill also establishes a fourth that would be directly controlled by the government and certainly the finance minister of Mr Dinkic. It is completely unreasonable that in this way Mr Dinkic is primarily looking after money and finance, not about export itself, because the essence of this legal project is not to encourage exports. If we wanted to deal with exports, we wouldn't have come to this situation since 2000, so we say, that we have a terrible external trade deficit, that for every new tranche of credit we've been blackmailed by the IMF to give in and to liberalise imports and thus destroy our economy. Unfortunately, we are in one chain of circuits, which is the continuing decline of the Serbian economy under the blackmail of international financial institutions. In order to be in a position to allow decent exports to employ our economy and give it a chance, it is necessary, first of all, to have a comprehensive strategy, to know what is wanted, and one institution that is quite unsettled, more specifically, an agency that is foreseen by this law will certainly not succeed. With a few things given in an argument to pass this law, I will try to assure you that this amendment that I have submitted to Article 3 is fully in place and that it is necessary for the Government to withdraw this legislative project. So, firstly, as far as the funds invested in this agency are concerned, they should be worth 25m euros. The foreign business insurance and financing fund has a capital of around 20m euros and consists of the World Bank's funds, the Italian government and these funds are interest-free. In this way, in fact, we have one donation that the World Bank provides to our country, while the funds proposed by this legal project will have its own price and this initial price of these funds will have a significant impact on the amount of interest and on the competitiveness of our exports to the foreign market, which is why this argument by the Government as a proposing does not stand anyway. As for the possibility of inciting exports, I was just saying that, first of all, a strategy is needed. I think the data that, say, the Fund for Development and Insurance of Exports with 6.5 million managed to support exports worth 110m euros, and that is only 2.6 per cent of the total exports, which is small in Serbia, shows that it is not enough to set up an agency and deal with only the agency, that this is a distraction of Serbian citizens and a delusion of belief that the Serbian government is doing something. For some of your information, the fact is that in these developed countries, which you mention and when you need to and when you do not need to, export support is between 3 and 4 percent, which shows that besides the existing fund, which already works for a time and gives results, it does quite well to do its job, it also needs other measures to affect export improvement. As regards the argument given in the argument that this agency should encourage long-term lending, it means long-term placements, and that argument does not stand, because it is a fact, which is given in the material, that our exports of products that require long-term financing are only 6.5 percent of total exports and that most of our exports are actually re-promaterial, raw materials; these are resource and intensive products that do not, in any case, have any need to finance longer than one year, which shows that this argument also does not stand. As far as the guarantee is concerned, the difference between the fund we have and the agency proposed is that the government's guarantee of praise depends on the amount determined by the budget itself and the question is whether the guarantee will be stimulating, while the World Bank funds guarantee that exports will be charged. So that's a big difference, and that's another argument that the SRS opposes the introduction of this fund and further burdens on Serbian citizens. I think even an argument or an attempt by the government to put the World Bank in a position that its criteria are too harsh for our economy, too. Often this assembly speaker is yours, therefore, that Europe's standards are important for our economy and there is no reason for these standards not to be met in this case, when it comes to the funds of the Export Insurance Agency. All in all, it should be said in the end that the Fund is already working, and that the agency has yet to be formed and that, at all of this bill and reasoning, we do not see the conditions under which this fund will operate, we do not see what the criteria for obtaining credit, nor the interest rates that will follow any credits. All this points to what I have already said at the beginning of my presentation, that there is no need for this agency, that this is another burden on Serbian citizens with additional burdens and that, above all, the desire of the finance minister to control this part of the funding. The parallel institutions do not need Serbia, much better co-operation is needed, and it is obvious that Minister Dinkic did not have a successful childhood, so he plays with Serbian citizens under the old days and with what little funds remain after this five-year DOS rule.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17149	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason why article 3 should be deleted is that the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MP Mr Antic is inadmissible and that the agency you are trying to form is unnecessary. Second, the more dangerous it is in Article 2. I will read Article 2 in order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, nothing is clear anyway, and it is irrelevant to you – the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia a.d. As far as I understand it, the companies are being created by the fact that you, the five of us have a certain capital, we want to make an enterprise, we participate in the formation of capital of the company, and we share profits in proportion to participation. I accept that Minister Dinkic created the Ministry of Finance a.d., thanks to you from the ruling coalition, with 95% of the owner, though, giving Labus something, but Labus has on the other side of the reception. It cannot be created by a state agency and can be a.d. and cannot be a.d., which is clear and written in Article 7 – the founding capital of the agency of 25m euros, in dinar equivalent, is provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Who are shareholders if the state of Serbia has paid 25m euros in the action fund? I'm not going to talk a lot about what Mr. Antic spoke very concisely about, about having three hundred funds, which is an export incentive agency. I will not talk about how much you boasted these days about how you became the most privileged nation in the US trade – 114 products you can export. I asked some people to list at least 10 products you could take to America. There were raspberries, then blackberries, then raspberries again, and there was cherry. Let me inform you, for among us are the messengers who do the production and cultivation of this fruit: the raspberries are redeemed at the price of 30 dinars, the cherry is redeemed at the price of 14 dinars. You peeled the skin off the peasants, peeled the skin off the producers. It's the only thing you can take to that America. You boast, you became the most privileged nation, and why don't you say that in 1998, when you were blowing whistles, before you set that bulldozer on fire, when you were banging in pots, we became the most privileged nation of the country in which we could take out absolutely everything we produced. Today, though, he can't do anything, because he doesn't do anything and he doesn't produce anything. You've settled the economy, you've led it to a beggar stick, but everything we've produced we could sell on the Russian market. That's what we're talking about. Yes, Mr. Kostunica, as president of the Federal Republic, went there and they probably received it, but the contract was not signed by him, the contract was signed by the government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Government of Serbia, do not use someone else's feathers to whine. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that the chairman interrupt the session for a moment so that the official car goes to Pink, or Grand Saleschn, to get Dinkic out of the studio where he shoots that CD and come to explain to us what the agency means, which is funded by the 25m-euro state of Serbia, a.d. So far there's no point, no reason, no need to discuss what you call the law, and I think this right now should go into the waste basket.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17151	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Anyone else want a word? Just to warn you, time is up for the Serbian Radical Party. You've filled out a 15-minute bonus. So no one wants a word after the amendment anymore. The amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17152	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I know some dreams have come true, but let go of your dreams, let go of your wish that the Serbian Radical Party has run out of time. The time of the Serbian Radical Party is yet to come, and you are all aware of it a little bit, and some of you are scared, probably those whose conscience is not clear. We've opened a discussion about this agency. Article 4 refers to non-commercial risks and how in this case the exporter will collect any claims from a foreign partner. It is said that non-commercial risks are: debt default within six months of the agreed maturity period, if the debtor of the State or a state organisation is an importer country; political events in the country of debtor or war; general moratorium of payment, the inability to convert the country's currency into converting currencies or to prohibit transfers. It is further said: a ban on imports of goods or services from a state or a state organisation as a customer or as a service user, and it is said at point 5: "single foreign termination of a contract from a state or a state organisation as a customer or as a service user", and at point 6) is said: "optifications, damages to a ban on the availability or destruction of goods, in point 7" of the element of the elemental accidents" etc. So it's supposed to be non-commercial risks. Here is how the agency is trying to resolve the collection of potentially non-commercial risks, so it is said – insurance of domestic banks and other financial institutions from non-commercial risks etc. So it's some kind of domestic bank. I don't think it's gonna be the Commercial Bank, because she's only doing commercial work. I don't think it's gonna be the National Savings Bank. It is likely that one of the remaining banks with the majority of state or social capital will try to force, through the boards appointed by the government of the Republic of Serbia as the majority owner, to issue such guarantees. The goods will probably just go through a company that exists possibly in such a country and end up on some real commercial market, and a domestic bank with majority government and social capital will have to pay the exporter the goods that have disappeared in some way. Again, one question is asked, and that is how this exporter can really be secured from non-commercial risks. What are the instruments? There's more ways. One is that whoever wants to buy our goods has a bank guarantee. Which banks, that's less important now, because he's providing, he's paying, and it's best to be some world bank that will vouch for that foreign partner. If he settles his obligations, the bank guarantee is activated and we have nothing to do with it, no cost, money comes to us. It could be paying the credentials, so it's a kind of bank guarantee again. He can choose which bank he'll be again. It could be some kind of homework. It's best if it's a side. The credentials are open until the goods enter the market. Or someone is wondering that some domestic producer, because this proposal gives this impression, has enough time, enough money, enough craftsmanship to get someone out of the goods and waits five, six months or a year for that goods to arrive for payment. Which of these will benefit? Eventually, some of these privileged banks will give our exporter credit so he can continue a further cycle of production, because he certainly won't be able to finance production alone for a year without the support of one of the banks. If that's the purpose of this agency, then it's completely wrong for domestic exporters. Furthermore, in the past ten years and even several years on the financial market, there is an extremely strong lobby that accumulates an incredible amount of capital. However and in any way, whether it was legal or illegal, it's hard to prove. The important thing is that they had a monopoly on some imported goods, which had a certain market. And that capital has now been measured for tens of billions of dollars. Did anyone at all attempt to direct that capital to domestic economy or did you let them continue to rage on the market by importing goods and destroying the domestic economy by importing goods of wide-ranging consumption. They don't just destroy industries, they destroy agriculture. Ask the question which lobby, from what countries, imports of bananas, oranges, which have flooded the domestic market. Which one of them had any damage? Domestic agricultural producers had direct damage and processing industry that dealt with the team. Is that so - yes. Whoever made the money, you know it better than we do. Why can't they be a guarantee to domestic exporting companies? By giving these guarantees to exporting domestic companies, it still allows it to import. Why not? Why don't you hire them to promote exports, and not us to separate 25m euros here for something that's really difficult to function and exist, and even as a stock company. Who's gonna be in that stock company? Why do these people, who for 15 years and more all over the white world, find what they can do to import into Serbia at a low price, low quality, to destroy domestic economy, not promote our exports? They have business connections. Do they? The fact is, they do, as soon as they're able to find such goods. Do they have capital? They've accumulated a huge tens of billions of dollars. Do they destroy the domestic economy? They're destroying. Are they still making a profit at it? They're coming true. Why don't they help these workers who buy their goods? Can't you control the import? Press one loop towards the European Union, even those in their mutual trade exchange make sure that trade is done on a basis of reciprocity. Anything that pops out of reciprocity is customs and does not lose every advantage given by the European Union. Why don't we try that? Come on, we don't want one-on-one, we don't have enough products, we don't have enough factories that can start production in a successful way to make it work. Why not be one to three in favour of imports, but that lobby finance the final domestic economy, because it also earned capital from it. Why not? It was tried at the end of the '80s, given some results. Why don't you press the loop once and tell the European Union -- we don't want to buy anything from you and everything, we need to sell something to you. Let's see what happens. Will it be fruity, vegetable products? I remember the economy from the late '80s, the good part of the money and the money they made on the pot arrangements; there's a lot of things that a machine can't do, it has to be a hand. Did you run one of those factories? Running one of those factories is incredibly cheap. It takes very little equipment, little resources. All we have to do is find someone who can fund it. Lon arrangements mean that the foreign partner was getting raw materials, packaging, everything, it was all someone had to pack and nothing else. It didn't cost us anything. It made a lot of money on it. Is there a factory like that now? As far as I know, no. Then what are you talking about? You're going to solve this problem with 25m euros. It's hard, this way, on this principle you've imagined. The question is, who are the shareholders in that agency? The question is, is it really a state body, an extended hand of the ministry, government or some other part of the state body? So so far, you've talked about this speaker, all of you who've defended the agencies – it's that the state makes it easier for itself to function, everyone in the world is opening up agencies. Now we have an agency to do some work and which, because it's a stock company, should exist as a profitable organization. Who's he gonna make money on? On the exporters? It's a shame. It's a shame for anyone who manages to do something today, find a market, place it on the market, get a commission for it. You should reward him. You need to allocate funds to the stimulating budget. So when you take something out -- you take it out, you make it possible for the state of foreign exchange, sell it to the state of foreign exchange, don't import anything, sell us the foreign exchanges, we'll give you another two cents per dollar or per euro. Why don't you do it like that? What are you doing here now, providing loans? Will the banks be shareholders in that agency? I believe so. I believe that there will probably be these very banks that are constantly being dealt with – the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank and the Delta Bank, why not. They will find out who has the desire to export something, to have a market, in one simple way, to place their credit, in a classic conflict of interest, to place their credit to the exporter. Is that what this is all about? Looks to me like it is. But it's a completely wrong goal. Don't tell the citizens this is about exports. It's a profit that a few people need to make. So far, it has been by destroying and confiscating the assets of the banks that have been closed, you plan to do so through insurance companies, through the deposit insurance agency, and now the continuation of the story goes through the insurance agency and the financing of exports of the Republic of Serbia. You already have a parallel export promotion agency. How the two agencies are gonna work, I wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17153	Anyone else want a word? The word of the people is the messenger of Mit Abraham. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is committed to abolishing this Article 4 and not only of article 4 but of all members and a complete agency. Why? Simply, Serbian radicals see that the ruling position has no more space to employ its members, to foster them, but to create a new agency to hire more of its own, more of its experts who have lost their jobs. If that's obvious, I'll give you an example from my community. These experts hired one of their members at the border crossing, he is now a customs officer, a 56-year-old man, who has been in private painting for 15 years. That's how the expert group works, and that's how it works. The Serbian Radical Party advocates that this government and this position revive the economy, to employ workers, to get jobs, to be peace and prosperity in the country, and not to form some new agencies (who knows how much more the agency will be, right now it is up to all people) just to hire their party colleagues, their equalists, to expand their party on the ground, to provide at least a censorship in the next election, if nothing else. It's a message from these agencies, and that's basically why they're designed and how they're going to work. So the SRS is completely against all agencies, not just this one.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17155	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17156	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I spoke about the amendment to the previous law, I did not want to report to the President of the Assembly after I had commented on the Rules of Procedure that, of course, you would say that we are obstructing and talking about the Rules of Procedure when there is no need for it, but I must take advantage of the opportunity now, although the president is not there, but I suppose he will read the stenogram when he returns from Požega. He said the Rules of Procedure are really restrictive to the ruling majority. I have to comment on this for public reasons. Simply, the President of Parliament has told a lie. The Rules of Procedure are exactly the same for the ruling majority and MPs of the opposition. It does not appear anywhere that one member applies to these, and the other to the other, and that MPs of the ruling majority do not want to participate in the work, it is not their obligation from the Rules of Procedure but their commitment. As regards the amendment to Article 5. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, MP of the SRS parliamentary group Igor Becic proposed to be a member of 5. The proposal of this law is deleted. When Minister Dinkic discussed the law in principle as part of a package of ten laws, as many as were united in the principle debate, he said Serbia is the only country that still does not have this agency. I told him then, and I repeat now, that Serbia is probably the only country that, unfortunately, has nothing to export. We prefer to think that the formation of another agency, and these very specific, very different and much more dangerous than those so far formed agencies. All the agencies you've formed so far have, what we've read to you and explained here, in order to hire activists and party officials of the ruling majority, and this bill introduces something much worse and something much more dangerous. It introduces to a small door the legalisation of many illegal actions that have been present so far in the work of this government, in the work of tycoons who support and finance the parties that make up the government. That is why until the end of this debate we will try to influence you not to accept this law in the voting day, or to vote for our amendments to prevent the Government of the Republic of Serbia from introducing small doors of crime directly into the government through this law. In the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why this amendment is not accepted is said: ′′Amendman is not accepted, since there are no reasons for not stating the basis and justification for the solution set out in the text of the amendment. ′′ I say that the amendment has been submitted because the Government has neither cited the reasons which point to the reasonableness and justification of the solution referred to in Article 5. It's a bill of law. Article 5 states: ′′The Agency is a legal person and has the right to conclude contracts and take other legal transactions and legal actions in accordance with the law. ′′ Which are other legal matters, of course, not written. Every time you have such an undefined legal formulation, there is a great possibility of abuse. We have always drawn your attention, first of all as lawyers, that the proposer must make sure that legal formulations and legal provisions have to be decided, clear, that they can be strictly applied, that they do not allow the possibility of abuse, and that the government as a pronounist continues to go into such a formulation that when you adopt this law and these laws you created conditions for abuse at the very beginning of the application of this law, if there is any application of it. You will hear further debates, when certain members of this law come to order, that this is an entirely inapplicable law. So what are these other legal transactions and other legal acts in accordance with the law? Of course, the minister will not possibly answer this question. The young gentleman who sits here, although he hasn't been introduced to us yet, I'm sure he doesn't know and I believe that you've done what you've been doing, if you've been doing it for the minister, but you don't know that the minister is hiding a lot of dangerous things behind this, and that's why he should have been sitting here, not you to tell him what we're saying. In Article 5(2), you say that the Agency is operating as a closed stock company issuing actions to its founder, i.e. a limited number of other persons, in accordance with a law governing the legal position of companies. This position 2 is something inadmissible and the most dangerous part of this law. No one's tried to answer us yet. We have an explanation of the proposal for this law, we have a big explanation given in addition to the amendment to Article 1, we have individual further explanations given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on all these amendments, but no one has told us what a closed stock company is issuing to its founder, who is the founder, or a limited number of other persons. In one word, who are these shareholders, who is this group of people to whom you, fellow MPs who will vote for this law, will give 25m euros in people's money. It says here that these funds are secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It will, of course, be covered by the rebalancing that you are obviously in a great hurry and, among other things, are trying to speed up the work of this session by extending every working day, or the President of Parliament is using the right of business to extend the work, the truth without a valid explanation. According to the Rules of Procedure, he has an obligation to explain his position, and the explanation is, in fact, your haste, or the government's haste to adopt the budget rebalance, among other things, because of these 25m euros. I repeat, 25m euros in national money, if you adopt this law, you will hand over to tycoons that already affect the work of individual members of the government by funding individual members of the government and godfather ties and individual parties. So much is illegal already in the work of these groups of people. When we put them in this law, when we open up the opportunity to form this stock society, then they will be able to function and tell us clearly and loudly who these shareholders are. If you too who will vote in the voting day for this law knew who these future shareholders you are giving 25m euros to, I am quite certain that many of you from the ruling coalition would not allow themselves to vote for such a stock society, for such people who are otherwise prone to malfeasance and abuse, and now we need to bring them into order of the parallel authority by forming an agency. You know the position of the Serbian Radical Party, the principled position on the existence and formation of agencies. We've been telling you from the start -- not the agencies, the government, the government has to form certain departments, departments, whatever they want to be called. There are enough employees in both the government and individual ministries to be able to carry out all these tasks that you provide for these laws, which you usually make in accordance with certain directives. So we are absolutely against the agencies as a parallel body of government, as a source of corruption, as a terrible consumer of state-owned couples. We're particularly against this kind of agency that operates as a closed stock company, with no explanation for who makes it a stock company. Where there are, in which country it has to be allocated 25m euros and that, let's say, five or ten people and say, here we form you as a stock company, here's this money for you, so you see and open up the possibility of exporting. Wouldn't it be better, smarter, more useful and in the interest of all Serbian citizens if these 25m euros were invested in production, in the economy? If these assets were invested in manufacturing and reviving the economy then we would really have anything to export, then we would become a competitive bar in some markets. This way, free open options, free agencies, there is no, unfortunately, Serbia what to export. What we might possibly be able to export, agricultural products that have become trade marks, again thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will not be given to you by raspberries producers at the price at which they are purchased today, and here someone said 30 dinars. People would rather throw them away than sell their hard work for a year in that way for a bogeyman to make money on them. Ladies and gentlemen, you need to start taking care of the citizens of Serbia, the people who are harder and harder to live, who are on the verge of existence. Many, unfortunately, are far below that edge of existence. You, we remember, at the beginning of 2001, when DOS was like that in euphoria and you were an integral part of that DOS, mentioning citizens in containers. Take a walk now with Belgrade and other parts of Serbia. Unfortunately, more and more people feed out of containers. It's terrible, it's tragic, but it's because of this government. So, you intend to stay out of business, you intend to throw away people's money. If you have taxed everything possible and impossible, if you increase taxes and taxes every day, charge the budget, then at least invest the funds you receive from the budget in something that makes Serbian citizens feel they have a government, that they have the power to take care of them. Do not be deceived by Minister Dinkic, to lure you, to form this agency, to tycoons, Dinkic and Labus' godmothers, to hand over 25m euros of national couples, fellow MPs, do not allow, accept this amendment and vote to delete this member and delete all members. We don't need an agency to stimulate exports. We need an economy, we need a farm that will have products that can be exported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17157	Since we're close to 1400 hours, I'm setting a break to 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17158	We can keep working. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Is anyone answering for a word? Yes, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's really hard to decide where to start, because in this hyperproduction agency that's come up with is really the question which agency is going to be the worst. We have warned before, but with the first agencies you started to make, that the citizens of Serbia would not see any good, but indeed no one could assume that you would go this far, that you would not have this many measures and that in every area of life you would find a moderation to set up an agency. The Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia is something that does not require citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for several reasons. First, it should be said that there are already some agencies that should be engaged in some similar activities. What should have preceded the debate on the formation of a new agency is certainly a report on the work of the Export Promotion Agency, which already exists. So you should have first explained what this Export Promotion Agency has done so far, as it has done, how much money from the Republic of Serbia's budget has been spent on financing and operating the agency, which are the effects of what it's done, whether at all any effects can exist, whether anyone is even monitoring the work of this agency. Because, basically, it seems that the essential feature of all the agencies you've formed so far is that their work is done far from the public's eyes and that what was once as much possible to check and be familiar with something, while it was taking place within the ministries, you've now literally put aside, put in agencies that are very small, very closed. Practically, no public opportunity will know what's going on in those agencies. The only thing we know is that there are a lot of people employed here, even though you say yourself that you are going to brutally reduce the number of employees in state bodies. Of course, when new people are to be hired in agencies, then it does not occur to anyone to say – let some of these people who have worked for years, some and decades in the ministries, who all have extremely great experience in these areas, be employed in the agencies that we form. Instead, you send 20-year-olds into the street, and you hire your party activists in agencies without any experience. All this together leads to the situation that Serbia is in today. The amendment to article 6 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. This amendment requires that article 6 be deleted. This is in the best possible way depicting the relationship between the SRS parliamentary group and this member of the law, but also according to this law in general and all those laws that you are trying to make in one artificial way another agency that will further burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, hence the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although these funds could be used in an incomparably better way. Enough of what's bothering us here. I would also have to add that the agency's activity, among other things, is to finance a foreign buyer or his bank, in connection with the export of a domestic legal entity or entrepreneur. You have, in this way, practically brought the citizens of Serbia into a very strange position. You deceive them and do what no one on the globe does. You say this way that if someone from abroad wants to buy any of our products, you'll be ready to finance that buyer, or you'll give him the money he buys those products with. Maybe he doesn't even have to buy them, because here he says it's enough that the job of exporting a domestic legal entity or an entrepreneur, and then, unless that foreign buyer or his bank settles the obligations they have on the basis of that legal job, you're going to put all of this on the burden of this unfortunate insurance agency and export financing of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, indirectly or directly, as you will, and your bahanalium will be paid by the citizens of Serbia. Furthermore, Article 6 says that for obligations taken over in legal traffic with third parties, the agency corresponds to its entire assets. This law should also prescribe what property it is, let's see where it's regulated, what the agency means. Do you mean under your assets these 25m euros, how much you have defined to single out for this agency; whether you mean assets that are supposed to come from international financial organisations later on; whether you mean equipment and rooms in which that agency will work, what it is and whether the agency will function by not having a claim to be charged by it, selling computers, tables, chairs on which employees work? Article 2 states that the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the Agency's obligations based on insurance of exports from non-commercial risks to the amount determined by the law establishing the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If you have carefully, and I see that you have not, read this law, or at least followed the discussion of the SRS MPs about previous members and amendments, you have seen that you have practically put all possible reasons under non-commercial risks that could lead to the failure of a job, or the failure of a claim by a foreign partner. In all these cases, the Republic of Serbia will commit itself. In this way, even though you say that these risks will be established by law, I don't know who can judge how many in one year of business will fail for one or another reason, especially if these reasons are set as wide as you have set them, and does that mean that the first three entrepreneurs, for example, whose jobs fail to collect their claims until this limit is met by the law, and the rest of them have no rights, and then the question arises why and why this agency serves at all. You should find some modeality and, if you want to do something like this, then in one way that would be the same to everyone, support someone who's going to export something. What distinguishes the SRS parliamentary group and our programme from what you declare as your programme and implement these and such laws, is that we think you would be much better off if you were this very large asset – and these 25m euros are just the tip of the iceberg, much more will this agency get out of the budget through some other form, it will be like other costs – invested in production, that you started some factory here in Serbia. In this way we would have twice the benefit: firstly, which would certainly be part of those products produced in Serbia that would have been exported and would have reached a foreign market, because a good part of those who do so can do so. Another benefit, even if these products were not exported outside Serbia, would certainly be that these products would remain here, they would not fail, but instead of imported products from foreign producers, our domestic products would be spent. That way we would reduce that foreign trade deficit, which at this point is so big that none of us, even the worst pessimist, could assume it would be that big. You, of course, promised that the foreign trade deficit would be reduced, but, of course, we won't go back to your promises, because you promised so much, and you fulfilled very little, that virtually no one trusts you anymore. I would say just a few more words about this shameful argument by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where the amendment is said not to be accepted, since there are no reasons to state the basis and justification for the solution set out in the text of the law. Such an explanation was given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the rejection of any amendment submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I think this is an insult to every MP and that this government relationship should not be allowed. Such an explanation could only be delivered in case the amendments we submitted were without any explanation. Only then could the Government say that there are no reasons to suggest the justification and justification of the solution set out in the text of the amendment. In any other case, government gentlemen should at least be so written as to write that perhaps the reasons set out in the Government's view do not indicate the justification and basis of the solution set out in the amendment. Because they do not like or understand our reasons, it is absolutely not our problem, but they cannot humiliate this National Assembly by saying that these reasons do not exist. So the reasons exist, but eventually the government disagreed with them or disagreed. Because of all this and many other things, and colleagues have said, and there will be words according to other amendments, I urge you to call yourself to your senses, to give up the creation of this agency, because this will be another extremely large cost for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, it is the starting capital of 25m euros, and it is given to the agency that I have managed to send out, the fourth modality of the agencies that you have managed to make for this short period. What is specific to this agency is that you said that this agency is called the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia a.d., and that no one knows what a.d. is and what it means, whether it is a stock company, who will be the shareholder of this agency, in which way these actions will be entered, in which the revenues will be distributed. I remind you of the fact that this agency, which as a primary goal should have the aid of exports, is defined here as a profit organization; someone who needs to help can't make a profit and the question is how it will help if they collect substantial funds on that basis. In this way, the only thing that can happen is as with other agencies, such as the Apartment Credit Insurance Agency, when we told you in advance that it can't and will not cost housing loans, as you said, but that only credits must be higher, because that percentage that the agency will charge for the insurance of housing credit in the end line will always be broken to the consumer. That's what's going to happen here, with the percentages you take for, as you say, help here being broken into the exporter. In this way, you will only be able to make exports worse and make it worse for few businessmen and entrepreneurs who are still working on something. I urge you once again to accept this and all other amendments to the Serbian Radical Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17160	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17161	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am truly sorry as an MP of the SRS that due to the justified prevention of my colleagues, Buha is unable to explain this, because this is also a professional problem, which he would have much to say from experience. This is about the key thing that we've been potentiating since the start of the debate on amendments, which is the means of setting up an export promotion agency. That's 25m euros. We have come to know, and it is irrefutable and confirmed by a later check, that these 12.5m euros needed for the first phase of filling this fund are not currently in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, obviously, you intend to adopt this set of laws that we propose to delete and to provide these 12.5m euros in the budget rebalancing framework, which is scandalous, especially when it comes to the fact that there is already one, and this morning, a colleague, Arsic, the Foreign Insurance and Financing Fund, who received his initial capital from the World Bank, amounting to 11.5m euros, and who operates on certain market and contractual principles that this fund has defined. To recalculate how much it is 12.5 million, it is the first stage, and that is what needs to be taken out of the budget immediately, and only 25m euros in dinars, it will spin in your head, and you will come up with an incredible figure, much bigger than the one approved by the Government of Serbia as some special programme for the recovery of Kragujevac, Bora and Vranja. The question arises whether we need the agency, with that initial capital. We know that the end-user and potential exporter will not always be able to use the funds at all times and that this will go through the stretching of certain companies. The question is whether we need this agency and what the exporters were doing in Serbia, what was the structure of exports before the authorities came, that is, that continuity of politics and what we as a country marked "made in Serbia" could export. These were mainly raw materials, semi-products, products that required so-called products. low-grade processing. If you come up with a review of the current situation in Serbia's economy, you will see that these raw materials are mostly missing or not exploited. The most obvious example of this is the occupied Trepca mine in our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. I have to remind you of something that he often talked about in the past few years, and especially in the first years of occupation, counterpart Ljubomir Kragovic, that at this happy time when Trepca was under the patronate of the Republic of Serbia, when there were no occupiers, the London Stock Exchange directed its trade with metals through the production, i.e. the work of chimneys in Trepca. Today, this mine and this exploitation are under the occupation of an American firm. In the overall structure of exports, for example, I am talking about it, although it is difficult for every Serbian patriot, especially for us radicals, but also for all well-intentioned politicians and people to talk about it, Trepca played a very important role because it also exported processed metals, batteries, made jewelry and literally there was no place on the globe where the product could not be placed. If Serbia's economy is in a terrible situation because of concern, first of all because of the previous Dossian government, such policies as Aleksandar Vlahovic, as well as Minister Djelic, one and the other prime minister, if you realize that our technology is in the most part for what we have been uncut on certain parts of the market is now obsolete, then it is amazing that you are not directing 25m euros to improve production capacity and to launch production rather than to stimulate exports. I've already told you that there is a fund that deals with and interested economic operators who want to place their products on the foreign market, if they're not able to do it themselves, promote and reach a potential buyer, they can certainly do it through this fund or another future one that will deal with it. The question is then open to you – what are your chambers for? We return to that radical thesis that they are both unnecessary, both the regional and the business chamber of Serbia, which by nature things must promote economic operators and provide that placement. Raw materials currently dominate the entire export structure. This year it will be, as it is, on the lowest possible branches, exports in percentages, and we have come to this knowledge published in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and you know that it is an enormously high external trade deficit because of this lobby, because of the inability to operate, it works. And this year the raw materials are going to go very hard. We had an example of our domestic agricultural products. Now this summer, agricultural producers are destimulated to export their products. If you're talking about the fact that this year and how it failed agricultural production and how 14% less sown wheat than it was last year, if you see that dissatisfied farmers and those in the metal complex and those once healthy industries that were able to export the rest of these products themselves... And I spent one part of my working period almost three years in the flag export sector. I'm going to tell you that in 1989, this former labour sector of mine, that is, once called the Zastang′′OUR, was exported from the ′′Stawn′′ program as a sector of exporting other products to the market, which is European, which is American, for $9 million in profits. If you find one company now or get the information that some company in Serbia has made so much money on exports, it certainly needs to be acknowledged. But, unfortunately, in Serbia there is no exchange rate policy on the one hand is de-stimulating for exporters, and on the other hand, the general environment and the inability to get favourable loans in order to execute placements, and only the establishment of this agency, with us unknown shareholders and the total capital that will be held (see Article 7) are not a guarantee that this will happen. A completely different approach to this matter is needed in the context of the creation of a single government's full macroeconomic policy in order to have positive effects. This agency, with spending this much money, will, unfortunately, not allow potential exporters and will therefore not benefit from this export side, but the enormous imports will continue, as has been the case all these years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17162	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17163	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the Proposer argues that he has secured funds in the budget, it is already seen from Article 7 that this is not there. No, because only 50% is paid before the founding, and the rest of the 12.5m euros at the latest within a year. With the budget rebalance now announced by the ruling majority, for the other day, it is certain that there will be no 12.5m euros in this rebalancing. What's most insolent, as the question arises, is whether this agency really needs to deal with exports and help the economy, as the promoter claims, or is it some other goal? As it already operates and is established as a company of action, in an analysis of the effects of this law, which we have received with the proposal, it is said: "The steering role of the Agency should in the initial period allow for a high rate of turnover of the Agency's capital". So this agency is built, designed to make money. For who? Probably for some shareholders. Who's he gonna make money from? From the exporter. I understand a country that wants to make money from imports. So when someone imports into the country some good, some goods, a product, the state introduces customs duties for two reasons: the first is to protect domestic economy and industry, to protect its market, in a certain way; the second reason is to fill the budget. It is quite understandable that the state has a desire to make money through imports and to provide budget and budget users with these resources, etc. But now, for the first time, I guess we're the only ones in the world who want someone, not even the state, to make money on the damages of the exporters. What trade capital will the Agency have? So she'll do business as a profit organization. He's going to charge every single favor he's doing. So she'll be providing a profit for someone. Who'll have the damage? In the first place, the exporters. In the second place, the state can also indirectly, as Article 5 states: "The agency operates as a closed stock company which issues actions to its founder, i.e. a limited number of other persons, in accordance with the law governing the legal position of companies. The Agency's actions are ordinary with the right to vote. "Article 6, which exposes this whole background, says: "For obligations undertaken in legal traffic with third parties, the Agency corresponds to all its assets. The Republic of Serbia is responsible for the Agency's obligations based on insurance of exports from non-commercial risks to the amount determined by the law governing the annual budget of the Republic of Serbia." So, according to Article 7 of the state, it will provide an initial stake of 25m euros. With this initial role, someone will want to be a shareholder, buy shares, through those actions they will gain the right to vote, the right to decide, the right to profit. If the Agency makes some poor business assessment in its work cycle, the Republic of Serbia will pay off the funds from the budget. What's the point of this? The point is that someone, not the state, not the exporters, is making money. Who's gonna be the shareholders? We've talked about this more than once, most likely banks. Because, watch out, banking guarantees are not issued only when you have to pay for the goods; when long-term business co-operation contracts with a foreign partner are concluded, etc. Guarantees are exchanged. The one who's an exporter is looking for a guarantee from a foreign partner that in case he doesn't pay for the goods, the bank should do it for him. The foreign partner is seeking assurance that he will receive some goods or services, that quality and within those deadlines as provided for in some business contract. Who's going to issue these guarantees? Those banks that are shareholders in this agency. If someone makes a bad business move, or if there is no charge or execution of a job, the bank will activate its guarantee. It's good to have that houseworker at the expense of the Agency. If the funds available to the Agency are not enough, it will have to be paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then why do we need that shareholder? The stockholder simply wants to exist, to be at the center of the event, to know what's going on, and to know how much money, or guarantees to whom and how much to direct. Who's gonna pay for that? They'll pay, in this case, the exporter. I think now the price of one bank guarantee is about 2-2.5%. If it's true, and it's said to be, that so far there's been exports somewhere worth about $2.2.5 billion, figure out what 2% is. (President: 2.8, but time, Mr. Arsic. I'm done. The one who's a shareholder doesn't need to do anything anymore. The state stands and guarantees him every penny he hasn't invested, but he'll make a living.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17164	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17165	As you have heard, regarding the amendment to Article 7. The bill spoke about the Agency's founding capital, which is 25m euros, with half of it due this year, and later something else. Article 8 regulates the Agency's working resources, not the means of establishment, but the means to which the Agency will work, which will place, as loans for the preparation of exports, for export financing and, in that second part, where this agency appears as an insurance company, to pay the damage in the event of an insurance case, and here it is. non-commercial risk, i.e. more force by acts primarily by states and bodies from abroad. The main funds to be managed by the Agency are: 1) dedicated loans from international financial organisations. At that point, I don't know who could take that loan and who could be in charge, which international financial organisations, if it is in the light that, by this concept, the Agency is a legal person, a stock company. If it is in debt with international financial organisations, then it is possible only on the basis of an agreement, and given our financial situation, then the Republic must again give some kind of security, and whether it will be a guarantee, a counter-guarantee, is not so significant for this topic. It's important that you don't see these funds here. Second item – donation of domestic and foreign legal or natural persons. I don't know how you imagined those donations. There's another amendment, but I won't explain it, because it comes from another party. I can only express my surprise. Third, other sources, according to the law. You don't know what law or what other sources are. Let me pick up where my colleagues stopped when they talked about Article 7. When you read this bill of yours, it's not clear who controls the work of this agency. There is no provision. Who is overseeing the work of this agency? There is no provision. Is there any sanction if the law is broken? It doesn't exist. There are no criminal provisions. What is this agency? This agency is a legal person. What's she forming for? To ensure non-commercial risks in foreign affairs and to finance the export of our goods abroad. When all this is looked at, consider that there are no sanctions, take into account that, by the logic of the matter, if it is a stock company called export financing agencies, then probably when there is a situation that 49% through the recapitalisation or broadcasting of new actions, there will be an increase in capital, then we will have a situation that will be a stock company, no matter how closed, but with defined capital owners, where the state appears with 51% and 49% of other legal entities. If the agency shows indivisibility for more than 15 days or obligations exceed the assets, and is likely to be able to do so, for one simple reason why when it is financed and provided something, there is a multiplication in relation to the founding capital and those assets, taking into account the manual of certain obligations, i.e. the request of the agencies, the obligations of the clients, so that it is possible to challenge both bankruptcy and liquidation and liquidation. There's no provision here under which regulations neither bankruptcy nor liquidation will take place. I told this on purpose to confuse the promoter, because there's no answer to this. There's no rational answer for one simple reason why they got caught up in the dead end. If there is a need for the state to intervene in some way and to help, or to stimulate exports, this is primarily done by economic policy measures, fiscal policy measures, customs policy measures, measures that can be met with foreign exchange policy. However, there is obviously no resources in the current economic and financial system of the Republic of Serbia and then resorts to this fog where the state formally has an institution, and if the institution works then it is quite evident that there is an installed monopoly and selectivity. It can be said immediately infallibly who can use these funds, because we have experience with loans, the Guarantee Fund for Housing Loans and other powerful funds and agencies that you formed during the past and this year, so why not mention those before you, and they have so innovated, but all by system – hold water until the masters leave. It sounds nice on TV when the commercial shows up – a new apartment, a new house, kids on vacation abroad, but it's not real. What's realistic about what the state could do in this area and be perfect and correct? Since conditions have changed in relation to that socio-political system that has been in place for many years, where the state no longer has this regulatory or essential role for life in this territory at all, the state is already acting as an equal participant when entering certain economic relations. What we in the SRS have proposed to you is that you could build a fund and fund the funds raised in that fund to be placed through those business banks who are willing to bring their business policy into line with export financing under the benefited conditions, by taking the risk of that benefit primarily to the state fund that helps and stimulates exports. Of what? Something that represents a comparative advantage and an interest in this economic environment. This government doesn't want to think about it. He just wants some control, he wants some funding, he wants some primate to have something to do with the system checked out, and foreign partners are waved at by law, and it's said -- well, yes, everything in us exists, but, you know, money, money, money. That's why we need this law and this law. This is about the legal person a.d. So by organisational structure it's a stock company and there's not even a supervisory board here. I don't know if you noticed when you read article 15, which says that the agencies are a congregation, a board of directors, so you put in an executive board. I don't know what this specificity is about. What's the biggest flaw in this concept is that there are some other provisions here that need to sort of define the resources for this agency's work. In what way? This agency essentially has two groups of jobs: one business is insurance against non-commercial risks (outbreak of war in some territory, natural disasters, interruption of diplomatic, consular and economic relations, etc.). That's what they're called. non-commercial risks where insurance premiums are far higher than in classical commercial risks, somewhere a partner conditiones that insurance, that's not the rule and that you know. Sometimes I doubt that this is purely pro-formal inserted here to say that export operations are being secured from the so-called so-called. non-commercial risks that no one could have predicted in advance, nor planned them, no one could have planned a flood in a country, could not have planned a change of government and a new power to break jobs with us, could not have planned an outbreak of war on some territory, etc. These are very specific jobs, and here it should have been said – within the means available to this, in this version of yours, the agency 20% is used on behalf of insurance obligations, 80% is used to finance exports, so to say – within these 80% are given the advantage of that and so to indicate how this agency policy is determined, in which sense it is flexible and monitors the movement on the market and expresses the interests of our economy. It is likely that these raspberries, cherries and other products that we are known for and probably the state would benefit more, because it has a capillary structure such as production and market organisation in our country, and why not the benefit that comes from exporting these products abroad. That's missing. There was a very problematic spine of what it should look like, but the spine broke in a few places and it couldn't be assembled. If you'd done it through some special arrangement business bank, and it's even closer to me if you'd brought these funds together with the existing Development Fund, so that you have a whole of one policy both in the country and abroad, it would probably be much more justified. But, with precisely prescribed values and criteria, to know which direction the state intervenes, how it intervenes, how it controls the spending of its assets, because yet, it has given credit funds and is responsible for not having some abuse, because there is a tendency to abuse. You know for a fact that people compete with the Development Fund, they all give some of their projects, and when a bank's bank guarantee needs to be secured conditioned by mortgages and some things, 50% of them fall, they can't meet the conditions, although they're granted funds; or there's a lateral blow called political parties and the petty interests of some people from political parties, not all political parties. That guarantee and protection against these blows and these pressures were not prescribed by this law, and it had to be prescribed. You simply saw this law as the founding act of an agency, without getting any arguments here, any serious reason, serious evidence why it is necessary for this area to be arranged by the establishment of an agency, not by the creation of a fund that would place its resources through a particular bank. I have to tell you, if it's about insurance of non-commercial risks, if it's about financing export transactions, there's an inevitable service, and it still has to be related to some business bank, where there's also a service that does an assessment of the eligibility of the loan. You simply doubled or tripled the services that should be doing the same job. Furthermore, if you went through your fund to place these funds through business banks, you would be sufficient to have one man who would be that super-supervised, whose signature and the fund's paraphrasing gives consent to the bank enter into that business with Janko Jankovic about exporting it and that; the state covers that part of the risk, participates in financing that deal with these and those funds, guarantees and meeting certain obligations, etc., and this affects the reduction of interest and other obligations for the job, so that our product, without any greater burden, has an acceptable price on the foreign market and could go. No, we need to get everything under control here, under our paws. I'm surprised you didn't write here that mandatory members of the board of directors were Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Vice Governor, this minister of the military, you could write it like that, and then it would be a real state agency, and not only by name, but also in the personal composition of the company's management structure, or association. That's why the amendments are submitted to each member and they're asked to delete, because this isn't normal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17166	I thank Mr. Zoran Krasic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17167	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must now tell my colleague Mr. Vlahovic: his amendment is good, though, too bad he didn't have this sense while he was a minister, but good. So, the agency's resources, from where it's being provided, and as far as Article 8, we're asking for point 2) to be deleted. Point 2) states that the agency can be financed from donations from domestic and foreign legal or natural persons. The question arises which domestic or foreign legal persons would finance the work of such an agency. What domestic faces? At all, there's a question of why. Will those persons who finance the Agency's work be in a privileged position when they seek some guarantee from the agency itself, when they seek information that is a business secret and that is exchanged by exporters and the agency itself? Therefore, they can be familiar with the procedures of their competition and know who their customers are, at which price is provided or offered or sold goods and thus make it impossible for a competitive company to operate with an incorrect and illegal form of business. What are these foreign partners, or foreign legal entities, that would sponsor a single agency in the majority ownership of the state? What are the reasons? So that the reasons might not be from article 6. The draft law states that the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the Agency's obligations based on insurance of exports from non-commercial risks to the amount determined by the law governing the annual budget. It means that someone is not going to ask the agency to guarantee any goods or services that will be provided, as non-commercial risks provided for in Article 4, which may be for example. Unpaid debts within six months of the agreed maturity period, will not be obliged to, for example, be late paid by a foreign customer of goods and services, but will have to be done by the agency. Shouldn't the foreign user perhaps be able to help the agency a little financially, as well as these members of the stock company who are not founders by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia. Political events in the country of debtors or war - there is already one fine way to make a certain abuse. Why not make a favourable business arrangement with a country where political turmoil is already taking place? Why can't the goods and really go there, just travel and disappear? Who's gonna pay for that stuff? It's the agency again. Which of these can benefit? He can have an agency sponsor, why not? Because of some little sponsorship, some commission that shareholders, if not owned by the state, will accomplish, simply, why not? The agency guarantees its state-owned assets, has a founding role from a 25m-euro state, has a budget of the Republic of Serbia, which will iron through various financial gymnastics from the board and other members of the agency. Why not? Who's going to have any damage in the end? Only the Republic of Serbia. Where's the damage gonna come from? From the budget. Who pays the budget? Citizens of Serbia. That's what this is about. We do not believe in the good intentions of the promoters at all, but we do not believe that this agency which is opening up is a profitable organisation in which there is one round of people, because Article 5 of paragraph 2 says, the agency is operating as a closed company, which is issuing actions to its founder, i.e. a limited number of other persons, in accordance with the law governing it, etc. So a limited number of people, i.e. legal or physical persons, will be able to be a shareholder. Again, the question of whose choice these shareholders will be. Who's gonna pick the stockholders? Will there be a tender for shareholders? Let's see if you've thought about it. You're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17168	Yes, Mr. Vlahovic, the replica, of course not, I'm just waiting for you to get the papers. Replica, Mr. Arsic deliberately called him because he did not want to defend his amendment. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17169	I was originally motivated by a direct calling. However, I am reporting for the amendment, and since it is illogical for someone else to explain the amendment I have submitted. I felt that in the opening statement, when I spoke as an authorised representative of the DS, I had said enough about the objections the DS has on two concrete laws, the insurance law and the export funding agency law. I did not want neither the Assembly nor the public to be burdened with re-enactment and re-narration, because it was never, after all, the tactics or manners of the Democratic Party. We want to point directly to what is the essential objection of the DS. In particular, I would like to say that it is a common practice that funds for the establishment of state agencies are supplied, among other things, from donor sources, and that it is not really good for the Agency to be provided from donor sources and not only foreign, but also domestic, not only legal, but also natural persons. Given the aim of setting up the agency, therefore, of encouraging exports, insurance of exports, and even entering part-time credit activities, when it comes to security of exports of the Republic of Serbia, it is not good to have at the same time a strong foothold in the law in this institution which, among other things, can produce tomorrow a proper conflict of interest. I believe it is not the legislator's intention, but I also warn that this is a place of potential conflict of interest, because you will have a situation where whoever is the donor tomorrow, among other things, as the owner of the company, is the one whose export will be secured by the agency, which is not so terrible, but it is terrible if exports are credited to the part of this agency's credit activity. Even if it was done with respect to all the full criteria that we don't see here, because I expect that criteria will be diluted based not on this law but on the law that regulates this matter, there will be doubts. I really don't see any reason for this suspicion to be a mark of the work of the Export Insurance Agency. That's not good. On the other hand, I really don't understand whether our country is so weak that it can't provide the necessary level of funding for the work of the export insurance agency, but that we have to reach out to the donations of domestic natural persons. I don't mind donations from legal entities that are not directly in business activity in Serbia. It is quite logical to receive donations from the DIFID, from the GTZ, from the Canadian Development Agency and other bilateral agencies, even from multilateral financial agencies. Here, is it logical that a private company in Serbia, which has an interest in its export credit, is also a donor? Is it possible that this is not a potential place of conflict of interest and is it possible that these funds, which are objectively small in relation to other budget items and budget allocations, cannot be provided directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget or cannot be secured from other sources without donations from natural and legal persons operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and is not a place of potential doubt. I think this should be eliminated. I don't mind, once again, providing donations to start work for the agency, but also that we have huge objections to provide donations to domestic and legal and physical and foreign people, provided they have some business interests in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because that's not good. The government is full of affairs. Every day there's a new affair, a new suspicion, a new place of conflict of interest that has arisen. During that time, the state administration is silent, everyone is silent, we don't have timely answers to why to build another place into a law that can be partially abused tomorrow; if you want, it can be abused by the opposition itself, which the DS will never do, but can be the subject of abuse and accusations even where the charges are and there's no place to be. Therefore, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, we call on the legislator to re-evaluate the objections that we have made, which I think absolutely have nothing to do with the fact that we are on different political sides, has absolutely nothing to do with politics, has nothing to do with the fundamentally potential place of conflict of interest and potential problem. There are too many problems and too many doubts that you might be able to endure another point of potential conflict, a potential discretionary decision. Please consider these remarks and accept our amendment. On the other hand, when we look at not only the objections made to the export funding agency law, but even to other laws, which came not only from the Democratic Party, we sometimes wonder whether there is one clear policy, with clearly defined objectives, with clearly defined measures to achieve these objectives or whether there are several different policies with mutually opposed and contradictory objectives. Yesterday, I was talking about how it's just amazing who has been insisting all along on reducing personal consumption, and I suggest that, in the Insurance Act, the incentive of personal consumption, giving shareholders money instead of action. Something like this is going to happen, among other things, in the law of lysing. I speak and associate this with this amendment because sometimes the measures proposed, i.e. the legal framework proposed, are completely contradictory. In the Lising Act, you have a situation where the Lising House Associations have filed a sharp protest on who has been preparing the Lising Law and why operational leases are being abolished; why are the house losing being treated as financial institutions, as banks, when they are not banks; why is the extraction of reserves and why a lot of discretionary places, more specifically the criteria set by the Central Bank? Is this an attack on personal consumption, on the reduction of personal consumption? Wrong. You will not reduce your personal consumption by eliminating operational licking, but only further affecting the phenomenon that we already have in the country today, and it is called the Stanflation, which means the growth of inflation and at the same time stagnation, i.e. the reduction of economic activity, the decline of economic activity. It is these measures that we are going to create this huge trunk, who understands, they will, and that is that instead of having increased inflation, which can be criticised, but it is not so bad, we use it to finance economic growth, we have a situation where economic growth records negative trends, negative rates, and inflation records positive rates, beyond all expectations. We have a situation where the government boasts that it has a surplus and says no one in the region had a surplus. Does this mean that the whole region is stupid, and only the Serbian government is smart just because it has a surplus, or something else – about missing a single independent mechanism that the government has to finance and stimulate growth, which is a deficit. Not a budget deficit, not a bad category, economically unacceptable. On the contrary, the deficit is, in a situation where we have fully limited economic policy measures with IMF measures, the only real category to which you can positively influence economic policy on economic growth. But if you have a surplus and you boast about it, you will have a decline in economic activity and inflation growth. Is that a thank you? Is it possible that, through all these remarks, including those we had, it's just that it's possible that none of the objections from the opposition camp, especially from that part of DS that's really constructively coming out and talking about all these laws, are not respected? Do the ruling coalition's MPs even wonder if it makes any sense in what we're saying? With full arguments, we are saying, among other things, that this amendment should also be accepted, but also that we should think carefully, as far as we are concerned, the proposed law on amendments to the Lising Act should be withdrawn urgently, because this will have a disastrous impact on the further development of that part of the financial market and this will further reduce potential sources of growth. It's not a licking activity designed to increase personal consumption, it's designed to increase investment consumption. Look at all these large private companies, and those that have been successfully privatised, and those that have been automatically private, where they finance their investments – not only from bank loans, which are expensive and how expensive, especially after the latest rise in the minimum reserve rate, but mostly in the licking arrangements, because it is a cheap and fast way of financing investments. We're gonna stop this operational licking. He's just not going to be here. We'll only have financial leases, we'll have the treatment of the central bank's losing houses as if they're business banks that are obliged to set up reserves, and they don't have the right to collect deposits. It's completely pointless and totally ridiculous. I beg you, really think about the measures you're taking, because I'm telling you that this year we're going to have a fall in social gross product. At this point, he's being pulled out of trade and services, including traffic. When you look at the volume of industrial production, agriculture, where we're finally going to draw the line, we're going to have a huge minus. Agriculture and industry, gentlemen, continue to contribute 60 percent to the overall social product in this country. If we continue to introduce these measures of economic policy, we will have a further growth in inflation and a further decline in social gross product. That's what we want and to be happy about how our cash register is super-full, how we have a wonderful deficit, and that's why the economy was never in a difficult situation, from the liquidity aspect, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17170	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Živan Vladimirovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Živan Vladimirović
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17171	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, based on article 141. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment reads, "Article 9 is deleted." Article 9 reads: "In the event of an increase in the agency's share capital by issuing new shares, in accordance with the law, the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the agency's share capital cannot be less than 51% of the total share capital." This member shall be made available to former Article 8(2) - donations by domestic and foreign legal persons, including natural persons. Now, we have an example of a single formed bank that was first formed with state money, but later on, strange financial transactions became a private bank, so I'm afraid by recapitalising 49 per cent of Serbia's export funding agencies will become even private, because we had an example that a bank formed by state money became a private bank. Furthermore, as far as the agency is concerned, the SRS is in principle against the formation of agencies, because so far formed agencies have not justified their existence. I personally had one bad experience with the Privatisation Agency, where the Privatisation Committee made several decisions to terminate the contract, but the Privatisation Agency was placed above the Committee. The Privatisation Committee should be controlled by the Agency and the Privatisation Agency has not acted on the decisions of the Privatisation Committee, so I am afraid that this agency that will be formed will also be above all authorities and will work on its own. There may be a conflict of interest, as it is likely that the capitalisation will be carried out by large banks that will have a major impact on export policy. The particular thing is, it's a question of what this agency is going to export. The economy is ruined, and agriculture is on its way out. Here are the mentions of raspberries, blackberries, cherries; I come from a region where cherry was a large export brand, where the state received 100 million stamps from export. So, since a few years ago, this falls and last year's generation of surpluses has not been charged, and this year's 15 dinars are in ransom. One-third of the money is paid immediately, and the rest when I see you. I, as a cherry producer, didn't charge part of last year's crop, and I started to cramp, I didn't pick a cherry this year, because it's not worth picking. This country loses a lot, especially those people who produce and cultivate it. It's the same case with other agricultural products, so I wouldn't go further into it, because you know all these things. I think that these 25m euros that the state was planning to isolate from the budget, which it does not have, should have been invested in some existing bank in order to speed up the development of the economy, to put agriculture on its feet and I think it would be much more useful to do so. The agency as an agency is a major consumer of budget money and I don't think it will justify its existence. Further than I'd say, although it's not a topic, but I have to say, there was a catastrophic storm in the mining community six days ago, a flight in twenty villages of the bathing community was destroyed, in several villages a roof cover was destroyed, windows and walls were damaged, and I have to appeal to the most state authorities to guide the aid, because people were sneezing the roofs, the city was falling so intensely that the entire roofs were taken away. I would ask and appeal to the Government and the Ministry of Finance to urgently allocate funds that will repair that damage, because this district is exhausted and they are unable to solve this problem on their own.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17172	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Vladimirovic is a member of the Privatisation Committee and is familiar with the problems that are now plagued by the Serbian economy and where he comes from, and so is throughout Serbia. When he spoke of the proposal to delete Article 9, which says that the participation of the Republic of Serbia would be 51% of the agency's total share capital, and said that hypothetically it could happen later, although it was defined as having 51%, the capital went into the hands of some other shareholders, he had in mind everything that happened with ′′Mobtel′′. No matter how many times the SRS MPs have asked the question, and these ministers, once the great critics of the Serbian tycoon Bogoljub Karic, shut up, like Velimir Ilic, because in the meantime he made a coalition with him, no one knows what is in the whole messaging called the ′′Mottel Serbia′′, and it is only clear that the damaged citizens are, the state is damaged. Karic was enormously rich and profitable. This is the amount of 25m euros in initial capital. You can see that those who have been raped and who are prone to the crime of the highest rank have released the tentacles and, of course, nothing is sacred to them; they are obviously close to the structures that rule, especially in the area of finance, and rightly so feared here is expressed. When a man looks at Article 9 and the whole of the law and the affairs that the agency will deal with and the reasoning written by the proposer, along with this moaning that we are not doing any good about foreign trade with another Member State – well, that is how the Constitutional Charter is, and that is how you define relations, and that is how Marovic is the president of the state union, so you are with them in a coalition at the Council of Ministers – it is clear that the intensity of the promoter is that from the Republic of Serbia, in the right sense of words, through this agency, a kind of business bank. If you want the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore Serbia to be someone who will be involved in this type of work, then not that you missed, but indeed the intentions of individuals are obvious to grab as much capital as possible for themselves in the future. And to explain to us nicely, that you've already illustrated this with examples, but there's no one, Minister Dinkic doesn't have here, a man has a shortcut to work, what does he care about the three-bit 25m euros for this agency, in which way these loans will be placed, even though the pro-forms here are defined. It is known that even now in banks, which hold a monopoly in their business, and with bankers, who are and how they are tied to that financial axis for Dinkic and Jelasic, not everyone can get the production loans. When he competed with former Dossos authorities, while Serbia was harassed by the Democratic Party, for loans from the Development Fund – Rasjetin Svekar. Who received these loans -- those who were the close authorities of the Democratic Party and ministers who then ruled the country. Who are those who will in the future receive production loans and place their products on the market? Also those who are close to the current structures of government. To convince the Serbian peasants now that they, and this transition from this social model of engagement, through the extinguished cooperative, to the accumulation of private possessions in the production of agricultural products, will be one process that lasts and is at the expense of farmers, but to convince them whether those who produce grain, fruit, vegetables are concerned. That this agency will allow them safe placement and that they will know in advance in a year, at a good price and through a placement on a market that they will earn and do not work for free, no one will believe you. That's because you promised it all last year. The other day, one of the largest producers of raspberries appeared, a man said he had three acres of property, he worked hard, and it's a agricultural product that he had and as they passed on in the Western market, and wherever he wanted to place it, he could, but he said this year he couldn't just pay 1000 wages as much money as he needed to bring down those raspberries, as much as he invested, where he'd be found with three acres, with so much capital invested, and he's not even at a positive zero. I can remind you of the period of that summer and the autumn before the fall of the Dossovo regime, and that will happen to you, when from the Parliament speaker Cedomir Jovanovic said that the potatoes imported from the Netherlands were better than the ones from Prika near Ivanjica. You're making the same mistakes again. Vlahovic is unscrupulous when he comes out and holds his sermons here, because he started it, the Democratic Party with him, he as minister and former prime ministers from the Democratic Party. The same way you behave, and that's why you're going to get a response from the citizens. It will be long before Dinkic imagined and thus pleaded before some foreign journalists – it is okay, it is stable, we bridge somehow, thoughts package by package of laws and time passes. No peasants, no workers, no pensioners, no unemployed, no longer have anything to wait for. Same story, same lies, same delusions, and this is July of 2005, remember, the people have no more time for deception, no more for fraud, no more waiting for him to get better from this day until tomorrow. Nothing has really changed. The same policy is being conducted. I cannot understand MPs from the ruling structures dispute in any way the arguments of the SRS, because it is obvious that everything we say is true. They are reportedly offended by what we say in this way, but we are strictly justified in criticising both this law and such a policy run by the government, especially with regard to the Serbian peasant. They said the same thing, but from some quasi-position, opposing Zivkovic and before that Djindjic and the entire Democratic Party. Where's the principle? Do you advocate the same shifts? I'm not talking about those who weren't in parliament back then, they were here, they were here, they weren't going to show up anymore, but about you who are part of it, and you basically support everything that's been done, and you can see that it doesn't go to the benefit of either peasants or Serbian agriculture or at all those who are doing something and doing something in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17174	Thank you, is anyone else answering this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Boban Vojnovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Boban Vojnovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The proposal for a law on the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia is deleted. You, gentlemen of the government, this is how you form new agencies every day, some new associations, every day there is a new NGO, and you yourself don't know the purpose of their existence, except that there will be some people there, with certain recommendations, who will have big salaries, unearthed, salaries taken from Serbian citizens. You shouldn't put all this on the burden of poor citizens of Serbia anymore, because people in Serbia are no longer able to support their families, let alone your family and party agencies that serve absolutely nothing in Serbia. Today, there are ten times as many agencies and NGOs in Serbia as there are factories that work and where workers receive salaries. It may mean nothing to you who are in power, but from month to month, the situation in Serbia is getting harder, more and more poor, and more people who are losing their jobs. While you form the agencies of the Serbian economy, it is shutting down because of this relationship between these and the previous governments towards our economy. Today, in 70% of Serbian families with one or two pensions, with one lowest salary or pension, it is supported by four, five, six or more family members, because young people have no place to work and fall on the burden of parents who do not know if they can buy a liter of milk in the morning or have to pay taxes, so that your agency employees receive salaries. I don't know what this agency will do when we can count on the fingers of one hand the companies that export goods beyond our country's borders. I don't know what the employees of those agencies will do when we have this economic and economic situation in Serbia. As you're on your way, you're going to order every exporting company to have its own agency soon, but you won't need much, because there are few in Serbia that are exporting outside the borders today. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, this article 10, as well as most members of this law, makes no sense, and I suggest you accept amendments from the Serbian Radical Party MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17176	Thank you, MP Momir Markovic came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Vojinovic, on behalf of the SRS, has submitted an amendment to delete Article 10. The government's argument as to why the amendment is not accepted, says: ′′Amendment is not accepted since there are no reasons for not stating the basis and justification for the solution set out in the text of the amendment. The explanation Mr. Vojnovic gave on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club reads: "To encourage and promote the export and development of the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with abroad, it is necessary for the government of the Republic of Serbia to create conditions for reviving the economy." Since this morning, from 10.00 a.m., since we started discussing amendments to this law, we've been saying that the point is that you're sewing the rye and the rabbit in the woods. You want to export, and there's not a single factory that's willing to make that product and export it. You boast of all your mouths that we have become one of the most privileged trade-related nations in America. At the same time, literally all the factories that could produce anything are closing behind each other. What hasn't been closed yet, those who wanted to take off their chains and locks bought some factories and hit new chains and locks. On the other hand, the American market is selective; America could say – well, the only thing you don't produce is that it meets our standards we will import from other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the standards of goods that America imports are so high that you, except for that raspberries you buy from farmers at 30 dinars, the purchases you buy from 10-15 dinars, the cherry you buy from 14 dinars literally nothing else you can export. The market to which our goods, quality, standards, products that can possibly be produced here according to certain standards, the only market for these goods is Russia and the eastern country. Some smarter government, before yours, so from the Bulldozer Revolution since 2000, before 2000, has made arrangements for everything we could produce to be exported to the Eastern market and to Russia. Such arrangements were made so that if our goods were to appear on that market, if we could produce, and not produce, because you closed the factories, 20% in the beginning of the Russian market would be cheaper than all the competing goods and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who are still a little ruling coalition, hopefully by autumn, possibly by late autumn, take the opportunity, open at least one factory, hire at least a few dozen workers in production, produce at least something. Otherwise, what you're laughing at, is, you're the October government, as soon as the first salt falls, you won't be on the political scene.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17178	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17179	Ladies and gentlemen, it is amazing and incomprehensible that MPs, instead of actively and seriously participating in the work, are laughing at the real serious objections of the SRS MPs, or laughing at Serbian citizens in the face. But Serbian citizens follow our work. Of course, they see what's going on here. In Chapter IV of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10 are contained. What is characteristic of all these members? It's actually about the means of establishment and the work of this agency. But it's interesting that these members are in collegiate with each other, as if they weren't written in the same ministry or in the same government. Article 10 provides that the security reserves for non-commercial risk insurance operations, as well as for export insurance operations from commercial risks, are to be formed from insurance premiums, regresses to the damages paid and from the part of the profits made by the Agency by operating in the area of insurance. Security reserves are used to settle insurance obligations and to cover losses from insurance operations against non-commercial and commercial risks. Finally, it is said – initial funds to form a security reserve for insurance operations agencies from non-commercial and commercial risks are provided from founding capital. We still haven't figured out what's meant by that founding capital. Is that the 25m euros the people of Serbia are supposed to give, Serbian citizens? Is that a dedicated loan? Imagine the tragedies – the dedicated loans of international financial organisations for an agency that will have nothing to do, nor the need to exist, nor to form. Are these donations from domestic and foreign legal or physical persons? This has already been said and it is truly amazing that this too is predicted as one of the types of security funds for the Agency's work. Of course, a colleague who submitted an amendment from the Democratic Party parliamentary group apparently spoke from experience. He knows what it means and how donations of domestic and foreign legal or physical persons must be paid. He knows exactly how much a dollar this way costs. Of course, we have not forgotten our active participation in the work of certain agencies, Mr Janjusevic and Kolesar. It's something that marked that previous government, and you gentlemen are creating conditions for new Janjusevic and for new Kolesars to mark their affairs the work of this current government. But the most active members of the government of Dinkic and Labus appear to be in this agency, and Dinkic is particularly experienced in these percentages with the National Savings, with how much state capital was taken in this way. This is provided for in Article 9 of this Chapter IV of the Law Proposal. So nothing will remain intact, unscathed, Serbian citizens know that the economy doesn't work, that nothing works, everyone knows that it's funny what's being said, that the Agency is forming, that it's planning some kind of export, that the Americans promise that we can export, only no one has come out to say what we're going to export, what this agency is going to do. But it's important that she be provided with the funds. Therefore, initial funds to form a security reserve for insurance operations agencies from non-commercial and commercial risks will be provided from founding capital and, since there is no explanation, according to how the proposal for this law can be interpreted, this means that these funds will be provided from the pockets of Serbian citizens. Article 4 also provides for non-commercial risks arising from this previous position, including: confiscation, damage, ban on the availability or destruction of goods; ban on imports of goods or services from a State or a state organisation as a customer or service user; elemental accidents. And, then, under non-competitional risks are considered events resulting in damage to domestic persons in relation to assets invested in their own company, mixed company or business of a unit abroad, namely nationalisation, expropriation or other state measures that can be equated with nationalisation or expropriation. I don't know if you've been seriously reading or thinking about what's written here, what's really in hiding, how the little door is being provided for some future denationalizations, that the citizens don't realize in any way what their hand is in their pocket, but whatever it is you're up to, whatever you're up to, whatever you're up to 25 million euros for, that's something you can't hide, that's something that citizens have to remember, you have to understand, and it wants this government not to be able to provide a single dinar, to earn a single euro, that all it's possibly trying to do is by financing something out of citizens' pockets. The worst part of it is that the MPs who have elected citizens are voting for such laws. The government can afford the luxury of putting people's hands in their pockets through one or another. Of course, citizens have their opinions on this and such a government, but MPs, those whom the people have chosen to do what they are doing, do not have the moral right in this economic situation, in this social misery in which Serbian citizens still have additional damage to 25m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17180	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milivoje Vukovic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milivoja Vukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Serbian Radical Party, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The draft law on the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia, which reads "Article 11 is deleted". This is another bill that the Serbian Radical Party does not accept as a whole, so the same amendments have been tabled here to delete all members. Mr. Minister said in a principle debate that this law is very important because exports are important for Serbia. That's what we agree on, but what to export when it doesn't work with us, Malten, no state-owned company. We don't actually have the products we could export. To encourage and improve exports and develop the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with abroad, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to create conditions for reviving the economy. As we know, the basic nature of the business of all export credit agencies in the world is that the state guarantees the Agency's obligations. The Fund is also obliged to obtain the World Bank's consent without notice when making a decision on financing and guaranteeing jobs. All this affects the dynamics of decision making, and to some extent limits the independence of the fund when making the same decisions. So, again, others dictate everything to us, and we don't ask ourselves anything, but we depend on others, on their dictatorships and blackmail, because we don't have a state budget, and we depend on the consent of the World Bank. Therefore, the establishment of the agency is a farce and another convenient place to hire party activists. That is why I have submitted this amendment, because of the principled stance of the Serbian Radical Party against the formation of parallel authorities, and therefore, in the day of the vote, the Serbian Radical Party will not vote for the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17182	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as the debate takes place in detail on the law establishing the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia, we could talk about how your "partners" from the European Union see the current situation. Those whose reports you as the ruling structure expect when it comes to the so-called. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because they did not make a positive statement because of the policy of the former DOS government that you inherited last June when we MPs received that report. It's incredible and inadmissible that no one from the Ministry of Finance is present here, and it should be the minister who suggested this to us, to answer some questions. We've been talking here all the time, this Article 11 where Doctor of Primarius Milivove Vukovic asked for a member of the law to be deleted, he's talking about exactly what principles the agency will operate on, to be liquid, safe, rentable, which means that only safe partners are willing and willing to do business with those who can enable the production, quality of the product and who have a certain contractual obligation, liquid and able to do so through a possible credit arrangement that they get from this agency, which is actually a kind of bank, they do. Again, we come to what Mr. Momir Markovic was talking about – what we can export and whether Serbia this year, if it couldn't do it in 2003 and 2004, can place grains or, say, raw skin on the world market, that's what these predecessors from DOS, or textile products were boasting, and what is the relationship of the European Union, or the association that allegedly followed what is happening here when it comes to these equivalents and under what conditions we can export there. It is unclear for us whether these customs, when it comes to cereals, which are not enough for our market this year, because 14% of the smaller wheat has been sown, or, say, raw skin, whether these duties introduced by the Democratic Party and the former authorities have been abolished. In their media appearances, some MPs who have entered this area, and ministers are particularly inclined to say – we will liberalise our economy, we will not lead any protectionist policy. You've been in a lot of trouble when it comes to the situation in our economy, because how can you not protect what's left healthy and what can affect you? Foreign exchange policy is not stimulating for exporters, but on the other hand, this import lobby is doing whatever it wants here. Even if you will, and it is obvious that you will not, by your measures to protect the Serbian peasants and agricultural products, the danger that through that import lobby from another member country to come uncompetitive goods to our agriculture exist, because neither this current government nor the previous one, when it went to the ignorant Cedomir Jovanovic on behalf of the Democratic Party, has brought harmonisation to an end when it comes to customs on agricultural products. There were several hundred of them, he did it for months as an expert on the Democratic Party, and as they worked, we see where they brought us and you continued with that policy. It's a big danger now. Such behaviour and lack of existence primarily of the internal market, without talking about a single external trade, allows Milo Djukanovic, who was a few days ago and I was talking about it this morning, simply unilaterally said that the water from Serbia cannot be in Montenegro. Then we come to how they see you, you boast a lot, so we are equal partners, and we return to the story of Mr Tomislav Nikolic and the SRS from the election campaign; what is it they are interested in and what is it that we want to buy? It is noticeable in this import lobby, in the structure of that import that makes a huge external trade deficit to import everything and everything, and especially food products and systematically destroys the food industry here, both meat processing, and we see it in the case of the Red Star from Kragujevac, once the most famous and best meat industry in that former Yugoslavia, and everything else. Chemical products – see how our market is busy, and nothing is done that those other parts of the chemical industry that are not privatised are well privatised and that we are going to produce all that is being imported into us and to employ people. Look what they're interested in. It was only 15 days ago that a textile export agreement was ratified and you saw that the SRS MPs didn't want to vote, because we're supporters that we need to revive the textile industry in our country. In the textile industry, in addition to the fact that among the employees there are the largest number of women who have now lost their jobs, which are someone's mothers, sisters, wives, there is a possibility, because of the highly qualified staff that we have nurtured in the past decades when it comes to the textile industry, that this economic branch may experience prosperity. After the signing, or ratification of this agreement in this assembly, did one of you hear that a factory was going on a sudden resuscitation of production, that the state helped, that it had arranged some export business? Unfortunately, it's not. These are all things that are present and which are a great dam for the possibility of export improvement. Export declines have been recorded compared to last year, and since last year, also by several per cent. In total, he was very small. And again, I'm telling you, what we've just exported, there's nothing from now on. Therefore, if one part of these 25m euros were working, and here it is, over a certain period of time, very quickly, for a full month after the rebalancing and entry into force of this law, 12.5m euros will immediately come from the budget, so it stands in Article 7 of this law, to be transferred as a fund of the agency, and that 12.5 million directly through investments went to the Serbian textile industry, many in Serbia, many cities, and these people would, and mostly women, mainly, have jobs. Like this, what are they hoping for? Or that you have invested in Serbian agriculture, that you have enabled a safe placement for Serbian fruit farmers, and there are indeed many. Now they're actual raspberries and cherries, it's really below any level that are ransom prices. And why not talk about apples, peaches and other products produced here in Serbia in tones and tones. It is not a good policy and such a blatant waste of money from all the taxpayers, citizens of Serbia, who have to fill the budget and because of such tax laws are barely at peace with obligations and increasingly difficult and harder to live for. So in the voting day, whenever it is, accept the amendments of the SRS and this colleague, Dr Vukovic, and all previous ones, and do not allow the establishment of such an agency to waste the money they can and how to be more rational and better used, directly in production and to see this effect in a very short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17184	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Gajic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Gordana Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17185	Thank you, Mr. Zankov. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment that I have submitted to Article 12 reads: ′′Article 12 is deleted; Why are Serbian Radical Party MPs asking to delete Article 12? Article 12 reads: The Agency submits a regular annual report on its business to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and an extraordinary report at the government's request. We've always had practice to see that the government can't control any of the agencies it's formed here in the Republic of Serbia. We have several agencies that do nothing, and here it says – the agency submits a regular annual report on its business. What kind of business is this? To hire only your party activists and house them and receive huge salaries on the burden of Serbian citizens. Mr. Minister is not present here, and I would very much like to announce what the citizens of Serbia wished him, in particular the citizens of the municipality I come from, from the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, and to see how he revived the economy there, not only him but all the ministers from the government, how they helped bring the economy back to life in Smederjevska Palanca. All businesses have been closed, workers have been sent to the streets and they have managed to earn bread for their family; the Union of independent street sales unions from Smederjevska Palanka has addressed the Ministry of Finance, addressed all possible ministers who could help. No one answered them, but that's why Mr. Mladjan Dinkic sent the gendarmes to Kelebija to beat them up so sweetly and to make them disabled. No one said anything about it, the media from Serbia did not convey it, but that's why the media from Hungary reported what was going on in Kelebija. The Palm Plus TV from Jagodina has that contribution. When the independent union of street vendors gets from Hungary's TV tape, they will deliver it to us and we will document it here and that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic was then on Palic and that he sent to independent salesmen to beat them up in Kelebija. No one's talking about it. The only export agreement the government has concluded with a foreign country is with the Netherlands state to export as many Serbian citizens to The Hague as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17186	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17187	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there have been a lot of objections as to why, on such a proposal, the SRS has submitted amendments with such a text. The reason is quite simple: such a legal proposal cannot be corrected, because the concept on which the law is based is entirely wrong. The agency is designed to operate as a profit organization, to charge its service to exporters, as if someone was mutilating or simply refusing to see or stick their head into the sand, that our economy, as it is, that our industry, as it is, is, that the technological backlog of our industry in terms of countries in the environment, as it is, cannot be more seriously helped by the state to place domestic goods and services outside the country. Now the question is, how would that be possible at all? In earlier discussions, it was said that one of the reasons for ruining the domestic economy, the domestic industry, domestic agriculture, is the import lobby. The fact is that the import lobby has accumulated huge funds, several dozen billion dollars or euros, anyway, and that money is not even invested in privatisation. They simply make so much money on importing goods into Serbia that they have no need to deal with anything but a team. It will do so to the last penny, until the last penny is drawn from the citizens of Serbia, until the country is so in debt, while they earn money with those debts, that there is no longer anywhere to raise credit. The real concept of how to address the problem of exporting domestic goods and services, how to reduce the export deficit compared to imports, is that reciprocity must be introduced when importing goods. What's the problem? The problem is that the arrival of DOS to power, maltene, has led to liberalisation of imports. So anyone, whoever wanted, however he wanted, under the conditions he set, could import goods into Serbia. An even greater chaos occurred when the Belgrade Agreement was signed, the Constitutional Charter's vote, was brought into line with Montenegro's customs rates. It comes to the fact that now, practically, on our market, we have two customs rates that interfere with domestic economy at all in any business, let alone that they are more seriously capable of exporting. So the only way is reciprocity. However, here are the restrictions reportedly set by the European Union. She's looking for a free market. What is the European Union looking for free market – for investment? No, I don't. Very few have organised and seriously funded something in Serbia. The fact that someone is talking about investment is mostly investment from privatisation, when someone bought a company that's doing business, so now with these assets they invest in the same company; or investments by using the money that foreign banks have raised in the exchange of European currencies in the euro, so now it's a foreign investment. So, our money is someone who convinces us to invest in our country, and only those branches that have nothing to do with production, but some service provision, where very few people benefit from it and where a small number of workers, citizens who live and work in Serbia at all, are needed. That's the problem. By introducing reciprocity, you would force an import lobby to invest in domestic economy and industry. It's not true that we have nothing to offer the world. The problem is that those companies that have technology, which have just preserved the market abroad, simply can't go into any more serious business without serious money. One way to do this is from the Republic of Serbia's budget. However, as far as I can see, even during the 2005 budget projections, extremely modest funds have been invested as an incentive to export domestic products. So it remains that administrative measures still force the import lobby to invest, so it would have to, at least in relation to 1:3, get something out of the country. Believe me, they've got good business connections abroad, they'd find what they can produce here, find what they can sell there, run all over Serbia to find out who could produce these goods for them. They'd invest in the production of the goods, they'd actually pay back the money they robbed from the economy, invest in the production. What is more important, who would produce this goods – well, our domestic labour force. Who would receive the salary – our domestic labour force. Who would charge funds and whose – pensioners, for our pensioners. Where would those workers spend that money? They'd spend it there, they wouldn't have anywhere on the side, they'd improve the quality of life's wages. Then who would collect value added tax? This government again. So the money would go back to those legal flows, not just come out. That is the problem, which I believe is that this ruling majority is controlled by this import lobby and that the government has no power or courage to resist the importers. That's one serious problem. The question is, why? Were some of them sponsors of your election campaigns, were your party members prominent? What's the problem? Is there anything you're not doing with them? More niggers and worse. On the other hand, you don't have the courage to tell Brussels - I'm sorry, but we can't under these conditions that you've been prescribing for a while, we're going to have to protect the economy, we're going to have to protect the citizens, we're going to have to start a little bit of exporting, not just to place directives here that don't make any sense. Because even if you put them in a legal proposal, even if they get voted the way they expect you to, they just can't live, they're not on the market, they're not in the country. While they are not in the country, the European Union is just a dream for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17188	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Rodoljub Gačević. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Rodoljub Gačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is against the establishment of agencies, not only because of what was said earlier, but also for the following reasons. If we look at the Agency's work description, where it says it provides export operations for abroad, on behalf of our producers, our businessmen, and export financing, and financing export preparation, ensuring export preparation, insurance against commercial and non-commercial risks, then the question is how will it do it in quality and success, in addition to so many of our insurance companies, besides banks whose founding capital is far higher than those agencies. What is the guarantee that she will do this, regardless of which is the founding capital of 25m euros. At first glance, as colleagues from the SRS said, it's a big number. However, compared to these other organizations and societies that so far exist, it is not some export that could ensure all of this. If we take, for example, one job that is already an export business, e.g. raspberries, if it is assumed that only a quota of 50,000 tonnes of raspberries is an export business, per 1,000, that's 50 million kilograms of raspberries, by two euros, I'm talking about the export price, that would be 100m euros. Can this 25 million-dollar founding bet provide a guarantee, cover everything, be a guarantee for this export business? He can't even make a quarter of that amount. If you look more closely, and if you keep in mind that 25 million are also under question, because we won't have 25 million at first, there will be half of it, it means 12.5 million, and only after a year that founding capital will be so large, it will be provided by the government, or the state of Serbia, then you can't count on the agency to be liquid, i.e. to guarantee these export jobs. As soon as she can't settle her dues, she's inequitable. In addition to what the predecessors have said, that this agency intends to install, insert, not only in this case and in this law, but also in all spheres of social activity from life in all the listed laws, the agency has a fundamental intention to arrest many political officials, served politicians of individual parties, and to ensure their existence, because, firstly, how many of these are starting from the headquarters of the agency that is in Belgrade and which is assumed, if the board of directors, the executive board is looked at, that figure is impressive. If there are from headquarters, from Belgrade, therefore, as planned, then to some municipality, where there will be a number of exposures, when you look at how many of these offices are, and in each office of officials, it is already a huge number. We from the SRS would not be sorry if these funds were invested in the economy, in production, in something that would create new accumulations and new investments in new jobs, not in one job that was only planned and reserved for a political party. The financing of political parties was carried out in another way, i.e. by these newly-compromised businessmen with more money, but it did not show up because it was a huge risk. It was in that folk's mind that a drunkard was thinking, and the other thought was the innkeeper. For example, for example, the Democratic Party of Serbia would be happy to ratify one Dracula, but it will not make it so easy for Draculic to ratify them, that is, his main fight and campaign to show and bring out everything that is wrong with the party, which was in his former party, to carry out all the dirty laundry. We can't talk about it now, because it's not a place, and if he can't achieve all that, his struggle now comes down to forming his political party, not because he cares, as well as Karic, about political life in Serbia, about democracy and democratic change, but rather about protecting, by my free judgment, a dirty empire acquired, and that's why he needs some party to support him. What was before in these political parties has proved very risky to fund a party of certain businessmen with this dirty money, because eventually it will be broken into by many political parties and can't be satisfied, because one counts – here's the godfather, he'll give me two, and this one says - here's the godfather, he won't take anything from me. In the end, it's all about the head of all political parties, and then it's the best solution: we're going to build an agency, it's all camouflaged there, and we're going to put our exhausted political leaders and other political workers from the party there, and we're going to slowly have the impact that we're going to take funds from there again for political campaigns, because nobody's going to notice it, through them we're going to take it slowly. There will be some stories, there will be dust, but few will be able to enter the financial books, so before all the agencies stands the government, their people stand. Now the government will set up its own people against itself, to find and to present the dirty laundry that is there at the agency, where the money has gone, for which political campaign, for which purposes etc, but for which it will not. That's why the best solution here is for these political parties in power -- they'll make an agency, they'll take money from there. That's enough of those politicians that gave her head ache. I would only suggest the following: Come on, gentlemen, from other political parties, let them finance themselves from membership funds and be financed under that Law on the financing of political parties, as the SRS does.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17190	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17191	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as the Serbian government takes seriously, parliament is showing us a picture of this first order. Dinkic, the finance minister, did not find it appropriate to come today and defend this legal project, and this unidentified leaves, probably went to buy Dinkic a note book for future compositions. However, we will work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the amendments, regardless of whether the Serbian government, whether individual ministers, representatives of certain ministries will find it appropriate to come here and sit. National MP of the Serbian Radical Party Gacevic submitted an amendment to Article 12. Since you've camouflaged that this will be a private company, that agency, a stock company, therefore, no government institution, government institution, the only link between this institution and the government will be that the state will have to give as an initial capital and stand behind this and respond, because the next day when the agency's fund is stolen in one way or another... There are various ways, but believe me, those of the Ministry of Finance know all the ways; they should have filled this candle that should be called the law and some other new members in order to bury what we were just talking about. Article 12 of the Law reads: "The Agency submits a regular annual report on its business to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and an extraordinary report at the request of the Government." Article 13 says, "The Agency shall keep business books, draw up and submit accounting reports and business reports, in accordance with the law governing accounting and audit." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, does any institution in its law make it mandatory to keep books, because it's normal to keep books and that's regulated by the Accounting and Audit Act. This member and many other members of this proposal are absolutely unnecessary. In the proposal, nothing will be added or taken away when this article is deleted. We in the SRS weren't just asking for this member to be erased. We are asking the Serbian government to think once and stop harassing both the parliament and the citizens of Serbia with such unsuspecting legal proposals. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expect, but I really expect, in the day to vote, this legislative project and those two or three draft laws we talked about yesterday, we don't adopt, because this would be a disgrace to parliament if we passed this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17192	I thank Mr. Markovic. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17193	It is a good reason, given that seven-eight laws are being considered in one package, which are treated as Dinkic's package of regulations, which allegedly regulates or destroys something. Yesterday and in the afternoon debate, we discussed this when it came to determining the auditors of banks and insurance companies and those agencies, that in one of these regulations there was one provision where the NBS gave consent to the selection of auditors. That was justified by some arguments, not to get into it now. Article 14. The bill reads: "The audit of the Agency's operations is carried out in accordance with the law governing accounting and audit. The audit referred to in Article 1 may be regular and extraordinary. A regular review is carried out for each year, and an extraordinary one at the request of the finance ministry in charge." I don't understand why the Ministry of Finance. It is further said: "The report on the audit carried out is submitted to the Government". Who determines the auditor? Probably the Agency's authorities, because they choose an auditor on their own. How do you determine an auditor, for which legal persons? There is a very important division of the Accounting Act into small, large and medium-sized enterprises. Why is this important agency not subject to the provision that the NBS gives consent to a decision on the selection of auditors or auditors? Why this is not significant here, and in those regulations concerning the insurance of deposits and amendments to the Insurance Companies Act, the amendment of the Banks Act and other financial organisations was necessary for the National Bank to determine which audit house meets the additional criteria in order to have that credit and seriousness to deal with audit operations. So we treated all these laws as one package. When we spread it to the table, compared the areas and made the fusion of those areas from all the laws, to see what logic someone handled, we came to the conclusion that the definition of such solutions was in who had the practical power over one of these institutions. Later you will see in these next members, the Agency's authorities are the Assembly, the Management Board and the Executive Board. That goes back to some organization that is characteristic of public agencies, where it was primarily this board of directors and directors. With the Management Board of the Deposit Insurance Agency, we had seven members of the Management Board, three of which are by function. There is no commitment here that members of the board of directors should be men of office. Is it possible that Mladjan Dinkic is not interested in this? He is not interested in the simple reason that he said to himself in the position of Article 14, Article 14, "The regular audit is carried out for each year and extraordinary at the request of the Ministry of Finance Affairs". He can order a mandatory audit. I am surprised, because there are no mandatory audits in the law which regulates the audit and accounting, or mandatory audits at the end of the year, there are extraordinary audits at the request of the legal person, but not this kind of extraordinary audit at the request of the minister; and why, when there is no provision that speaks of who conducts control of business, supervision, etc. Since there are no promoters, let him know, while he's making this rebalancing, he's struggling there with sandwiches, that his members are 13 and 14. The bill was not necessary. Why? Article 13. talks about keeping business books. It's the obligation of every legal person. If the legal person is organized as a stock company, he has a legal obligation to run a business book, there's no need to put it into the agency law. In the case of audits and business control, credit rating, balance-checking and success through the audit house, it is an obligation that exists under the second law, which concerns the legal person’s status and the activity of which the person is engaged and his/her position, whether it is a large, medium or small enterprise. According to these criteria, in terms of accounting, this would be a large enterprise, where there is an obligation to review regularly annually and mandatoryly. So he doesn't need these provisions. There's a need that if something is made it can't be done with five or six members, but 24, because then it seems much more serious. So, the number of members themselves suggests that this seems more serious, and essentially, it's all empty, unarranged, with a lot of provisions that have no meaning in the context of what needs to be solved by this law. This law is in fact a founding act, in line with the idea of Mladjan Dinkic that these jobs should be carried out by some agency. That's the range of this. In concrete members, we have pointed to all the gaps and holes that exist in one such bill, which will be quite confusing, but ideologically wrong. If someone intends to improve our exports, to enable companies engaged in foreign trade, which export their goods, to facilitate them, to help them secure a longer-term loan for these jobs, to finance exports, to be curient with the price on the foreign market, then this is the wrong way. The whole concept of this law implies that this is something that would be called a fifth of the total foreign trade business. The bank is inevitable again in this business. In any specific business that they would finance under this law, the business bank is inevitable, whether as an institution through which payment is made, whether as an institution through which the business of preparation or production and the provision of goods for export is credited. If that's the case, why the agency, because she can only increase the cost, multiply the administration. As soon as there's such a big administration, it means it's an imminent selection. As soon as the selection appears, the selective approach, and you know it – far from the eye, far from the heart. So, you guys who want to do this job, rush everyone to G17 plus, take those access cards as soon as possible. You can count on this 12.5 million if those funds are allocated after the rebalance, but you know, it's just founding capital, but it's not even part of the funds needed for normal work. There's talk of 12.5 million large assets. These are no means to ensure the security of external trade financing by means of these funds. Not to bid, a little more serious business outside trade goes beyond at least two or three times this amount and some of our companies are already doing it. If someone thinks that this way helps small and medium-sized enterprises to go seriously into some export business, it's not helping. This is a blank shot, like that shot in 2001 -- for so many months a loan apartment, for so many months a car, for so many months and so many months a child abroad, they've been spinning commercials for two months and now banned, no one has to repeat those commercials so that citizens don't remember what the promises were at the beginning of 2001. It's the same with the Guarantee Fund to secure housing loans, the corporation, who will remember more about how it's atomized; it's all a dead letter on paper, to wave, to deal with these issues here, and not to ask today what about diesel, what about agriculture, buying, companies, privatisation, where money from Cyprus, what about electricity prices. You see for yourself, the National Assembly is marginalized because it deals with peripheral matters, those things that are absolutely not of interest to the people at the moment. That's where the media did it, and these Tadics and these other media, as well as these reporters in the hallway. Those in the National Assembly are asking an MP to comment on something that's going on 500 or 1,000 kilometers away. That's how we become marginals here. The people who follow this transmission rightly say – what the fans say, as if they don't live in Serbia, don't know what's in Serbia; in Prokuplje surely to replace the crep, in Jasa Tomic to finally make houses, those who go towards Cačka and other places to settle the road, agriculture, price. We are not talking about this, because someone designed this assembly to further disgust the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to rule over some of its tracks and to go to NGOs on another track, and the only ones oriented in time and space are financial lobbyists, headed by Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17194	I thank you, Mr. Krasic, though, when mentioned – Indians, it is not an insult because the Indians fought for life. Therefore, MPs are fighting for the lives of citizens. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP John Day. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger John Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17195	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the Serbian Radical Party, I have tabled an amendment to Article 15. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment reads, "Article 15 is deleted." I stand for the principled stance of the Serbian Radical Party against the formation of parallel authorities. To encourage and improve exports and develop the economic relations of the Republic of Serbia with abroad, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to create conditions for reviving the economy. First of all, I am referring to giving favourable loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to agricultural producers who would buy new machinery, new tractors, new connected agricultural machines, obtain re-promaterials, with the aim of increasing the production and creation of market surpluses of goods exported to the East European market. The other day, I got a call from the Malanaris from Valjev. People are in a difficult situation, they say the raspberries gave birth well, that they are of good quality, but that no one buys the raspberries and that they have been waiting for ransom for five days. At the price of 20 dinars of raspberries, no one will buy it. It's the same or similar situation with wheat in Vojvodina. You know, the harvest started, the wheat wasn't redeemed, there was no organized ransom, the government didn't set the price for the wheat. Market surpluses in this situation will buy the tycoons, which these agricultural products will export and they will take the kamak, and farmers will go through the worst in the situation. You don't even know when she'll be paid. That's why the formation of this Farsa agency and another hot spot for the arrest of your party activists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17196	I thank you, Mr. Daya. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has in principle represented the view of why it is devastating for Serbian citizens to form parallel systems of government. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the practice showed, just as it did in this Article 15, and in all the members of this bill, is multiplying by the formation of the agencies of an administrative apparatus, justifying this in the light of the reasons for the adoption of such a legal solution in the establishment of the Agency. Then he says, justice is, since we're a country in transition, that I don't count on it anymore. The bottom line is that the bill, as well as many legislative proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is precisely aimed at what Mr Krasic said to the citizens of Serbia to defile this parliament, etc. The essence of our proposals and what we have proposed to this National Assembly is the opposite of what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted as legal proposals to the National Assembly and what your parliamentary majority in this assembly has adopted and what will be just at the expense of the citizens of Serbia. For example, this Article 15 states: ′′The Agency's organizations are: the Assembly, the Management Board and the Executive Board. "Why isn't there a board of supervisors? But if we are talking about the allocation of 25m euros, they are of course not small, they are from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When the budget for this year was passed, we, as the strongest opposition political party, voted against the budget. I especially want to underline that. You said it was a restrictive budget, and this is not the only agency to be formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, you place everything on the citizens of Serbia, as if you are not living in the time and space in which Serbian citizens are today. Serbian citizens today have a hard time living. Serbian citizens are hungry. Don't worry about the fact that the economy has completely stopped, that when you leave Belgrade, nothing works. The goal of this government was to make the citizens live better than they lived until you formed that government. So all those election promises you made in the election campaign you forgot. The agencies are being formed, laws are being passed in this assembly of quantitative nature, they are constantly talking about how this assembly has made several dozen legislative proposals. Which of these legal proposals are applicable in practice, that is the essence. The Serbian Radical Party is in principle pushing against the formation of parallel systems of government. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia is an executive authority and the National Assembly as a legislative authority, then there is no reason to form agencies as parallel authorities. That is the Serbian Radical Party's absolute attitude. This puts all this on the burden of hard-lived citizens of Serbia. We of the SRS hope that elections at all levels will be announced very quickly, that absolutely everything you have brought in this assembly, to the detriment of Serbian citizens, will be corrected. We've been trying to fix some of the legal solutions, to make them better. As far as this bill is concerned, this is another one in a series of legal proposals that the SRS absolutely cannot agree with.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17198	I thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Here you go, Mr. Four.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17199	Dear People's MPs, here's an MP from the ruling majority asking what the amendment is. So they closely follow the meeting and the work of the National Assembly, but we MPs of the Serbian Radical Party argued from member to member prove the integrity of this law and the destruction of the consequences of this law. It is evidence that this action society, called the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia, will receive from the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. from the citizens of Serbia, 12.5m euros will be taken to begin, and we will see that things will go further if this action society comes to life at all. Provisions of Art. From the 15th to 21st of this proposal, the proponents, who make up the assembly, the board of directors, the executive board, and the essence of these provisions, that these bodies should make up those proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as authorised representatives, that the Governing Board will again propose, because it is the factical assembly of this action society and we have come to the essence: that our government, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will become an agency and an action society. Part of that government will be an agency and a stock company. When we see Article 18, that the board of directors has a president, a deputy president and three members, the government will again appoint the board of directors as an assembly of a company or an agency and choose the board of directors. Will it be ministers, deputy ministers or ministerial assistants? God, we have a lot of deputies in every resort, and probably Minister Dinkic's assistants, probably experts from G17, including Mrs Vesna Djindjic, who was at the Agency for Rehabilitation and Bank bankruptcy, is now an expert in finance, to make Serbia and all citizens happy. The following is very interesting, in addition to Article 19, which states the responsibility of the Management Board, as the previous member has the authority of the Assembly, is Article 20:′′The Management Board shall elect members of the Executive Board. ′′ So, again you from the government, intermediaries or certain, choose the executive board. The following provision in Article 20:′′The members of the Executive Board shall be the Executive Directors. ′′ So, they automatically become executive directors of that agency, this stock company. It is a member of the 21st, believe it or not, if there are people here who can understand whether it is possible here, but it seems possible to suggest it this way: ′′The President of the Executive Board is the Director-General of the Agency. ′′ The following provision: ′′ The Director-General of the Agency shall be elected by the Management Board. ′′ If he's already president of the executive board, he's the CEO and who chooses him and why chooses him? When considering these provisions on the bodies of this agency, i.e. the company of action, which will be led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia through authorised representatives, it is clear what the aim of this law is and what the intention is: that export operations are allegedly exported, export insurance is managed through the Serbian government. The practice of many countries is certainly not like this and, surprisingly, you have not had the possibility, Minister Dinkic had no opportunity to call on any directive, not a single recommendation from the European Union, except Bernska Union - an international association of export credit insurance providers. This is the work of showing the ability and mind of the minister himself and his associates, with such a law, with such provisions on the body to manage this agency, or insurance company. The state of Serbia or the former Yugoslavia had specialised banks, as stated in the explanation, and the business of exporting alongside a specialised bank is impossible to organise and manage without direct involvement of business banks. Business banks are in fact those who, through part of their assets, need to help export, through credit lines that directly correspond to foreign banks, but unfortunately, as we spoke in the afternoon debate, we do not essentially have real business banks that work in terms of banks, in favour of economy and citizens. On the contrary, these are mob banks that are not interested in exporting or export preparation or business at all. ′′Jubmes Bank′′ is privatized and has now become a private bank. Who and how did this state bank, the export bank, privatize, nobody knows. This was done behind the public's light, as is the other part of the banks that were formed; one example is the ′′Ju guarantee bank′′, which was transformed by the military service of the National Bank of Serbia into a private bank. It is only proof that banking space is being hijacked in Serbia's territory. And what is proposed here, from Articles 15 to 21, on the bodies of this agency, i.e. the action society, clearly states who will have these 12.5m euros or 25, and probably in some subsequent budget proposal for 2006, more funds will be added here, so this agency, that is, the action society of the Republic of Serbia, will be liquid and profitable in its business, not in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, nor the economy of Serbia, but in the interests of those who will lead this action society. That is why the Serbian Radical Party has proposed to delete all previous members, including this member who is here on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17200	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. The word has the People's MP Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17201	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you assume, an amendment to the Serbian Radical Party, which also reads, has been submitted to Article 16. I'd have to continue to explain why. At the beginning of today's session, the president of the DSS parliamentary group came out and said he didn't understand why we're doing this, and I'm very sorry, but here he said he was talking to the public, so for that reason, I'm talking to the public, because it's obvious that he doesn't understand it, and so do you, because he represents you. The amendment is to draft a law on the insurance and export financing agency. We have to say the principled attitude, which even you had in the past, but you obviously forgot it, that agencies are excess and that agencies are designed to bridge ministries, to hire party staff, etc. So, you've accepted the same, although in today's government in those agencies that stayed with your ministries former ministers and former rule of these yellows are still trying and managing to obstruct you and stop the work of your ministries. You're probably trying to do it for the near end of the government, so you expect to be able to sabotage the work of some future government, but I need to inform you that the next government is the Serbian Radical Party and that we're going to put an end to those agencies, so you're free of any effort. Since it's about exports here, to get to the point, I have to tell you that the whole situation is problematic, because first and foremost – you've put us in charge of everything we've owed. The problem of exports themselves is great, and we've heard a few times that and we have nothing to take out, because production is bad and nothing is moving and it's not working; and we want to take something out, we have nothing. You know, it's defeating the data, and I'm going to tax it, what's been imported in the past: it starts with meat, so in 2003, we had a problem that the price of live scale meat was so small that it didn't even pay the peasants to hold pigs, and that's why we imported a bunch of it; we imported tomatoes, milk, even though we have milk reserves. Also, I have friends who work in the conditory industry who told me, say, that, besides our country and fertility, they import hazelnut. And last year they were importing plums, which for me and us here in Serbia is devastating. So, it's imported, and now the bottom of the bath, this part around Bruce, is being sold to a large one, and it's buying off a plump of 50 dinars. It's all a propo of what we talked about. So 50 dinars we pay the peasant plum, 30 raspberries, 15 cherries. We're trying to destroy the last thing that works in the state. For some more serious start-up of any production, some money is needed, and as you know, in the past period we've talked about, credits are catastrophic and no one's worth taking credit under these conditions, and therefore there's no indication that production will start in any form. Just because we're doing all this right now and we're starting some agencies, we're talking about different laws that don't actually touch most of the population, we're clouding reality, and we're not talking about things that people are interested in, burning problems that are standing around, and I think that's what's done consciously and deliberately. You may not know anything personally, but it doesn't matter, you sit there like this, come in the morning to open a session, and then you're no longer required by the Rules of Procedure to be there. Serbian citizens have a problem, it's fueled up, I don't know if anyone's heard it in the past period that there are no elevators, that the problem is that there are no elevators in the middle of the harvest, and that banks are being closed still as they have shut down during the past period during the ′′yellow′′ government. Now she's just a little less yellow, but that's it. The economy itself is being destroyed. We have heard in the past law, and regarding insurance companies, insurance companies are closed; electricity trade continues to flourish, money is poured out of one pocket into other pockets, the thief is located wherever there is money, and we are not talking now about the preparation of other banks, DDOR, NIS, ZTP, Elektroprivreda to be sold to tycoons of this and former government. It's about the same thing, just a little change in sponsors and those who use it. About not talking. You're trying not to talk about citizens, and very soon, as I hear it (and some gentlemen comment as if this isn't the subject), preparing to retire at 65, 70 or 80 years old, and about that will solve the problem probably both unemployed and pension systems. We've heard in the past that you've narrowed down the workers completely that they don't even have anyone to complain to; and if they get fired, they can only say goodbye to the boss. That's what I said last time, I'm telling you again, you can't look your neighbors in the eye and I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17202	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Disic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Milos Disic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17203	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as well as all amendments so far, we propose that this amendment be deleted. The reason is because the law is bad, and if you'd accepted our suggestions immediately, we wouldn't be talking about this law here today. This is another robbery in a series of Serbian citizens' robberies. Serbian citizens are used to something like this. And, in all that is good, they know that the Serbian Radical Party was with the citizens of Serbia and will remain until the end to fight and protect their interests. I can say that this agency is another one in a series of robberies and here through all these explanations and explanations that you've given you see for yourself to defend something that already exists. There are also funds and agencies involved in this business, and today we're opening another agency to hire our party friends, and in fact your party friends who would get a job, because they have nothing else to do, and your parties are failing and they're staying out of some job on other sides and they need to find an arrest. You're giving us an example here that if these agencies are set up, there's going to be an expansion in various ways, especially for this agency, that there's going to be expansions in exports, and on the other hand you're saying that it's not going to be competitive with other agencies and the fund that exists in the federal state, while it was a federal state, that it's not going to be competitive. If that's what you think, gentlemen, then this agency should either be set up and there's only one or more of them left to shut down, and these people should be transferred to this agency, and this agency should do what you imagine and what you're predicting. This is how another precondition for robbery was created, which is no wonder. Everyone here mentioned that the raspberries today are 30 dinars, and I can tell you that the raspberries on the Kopalnik are 25 dinars and that the baths are racing who will give less and that the peasants literally have to put out their agricultural goods so that they no longer experience humiliations. The government doesn't do it, it does something that's absolutely going to her advantage, and that's robbery, another robbery in a row. Through the various robberies that have taken place so far, through EPS, electricity, Kolesar and Janjusevic and other things, and that every law has its own agency, here, we have witnessed here today that another agency is being created in a series, and all for the sake of hiring party friends and party colleagues. The agency is almost as a ministry, so Article 17, which I have submitted to the amendment, gives under regular numbers from 1st to 11th what exactly the agency should do and what to deal with. We don't need to do this, we need to do good and fair things, things that the state will have a lot of influence to create good conditions for small businesses, big businesses and agriculture, and then the foreigners will race and buy our good products. It is necessary to create good export conditions and not be over these agencies and thus rob everything that is created in this country. I offered Mr. Dinkic here some material from the Indji municipality and he wouldn't look at it. We'd save a lot of money here, and through that money he saved, other jobs could be financed, not just agencies like this. For a wonderful miracle, I don't know what the DSS is doing and what ministry it's in, and if there's any agencies like this, but mostly all agencies are founded where the G17 is in the ministries and through these laws they're trying to make this little bit of their members that's left over and that, well, the party benefits most of it, not the state. The state will in no way benefit, this is a failure for the state. So please, while it's time, withdraw the law and not create such agencies and robberies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17204	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momcilo Duvnjak. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Momcilo Duvnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17205	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am submitting an amendment to the proposal for a law on the Agency for Insurance and Financing of Exports of the Republic of Serbia to Article 18, and I suggest that this article be deleted. This is another failure by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When the choice was made, it was about rationalisation, saving, reviving the economy that is in collapse, higher standard of living, new employment, etc. It's almost nothing. From day to day, we are in an increasingly difficult situation and the dissatisfaction of Serbian citizens is increasing. Instead of strengthening the existing institutions of the system, the government degrades them and discredits them. In addition to the existing ministries, the government for each area forms parallel authorities and establishes various agencies that fall under the burden of impoverished citizens. This is also the case with the insurance and export financing agency of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's just a simple farce and another hot spot for the capture of activists of the ruling coalition. That's why I wonder what the Ministry of Economic Relations will do with abroad, the Ministry of Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and other state-owned bodies? Don't we really have a lot of work to do and to adopt system laws? This is how, by adopting this law, we will single out 25m euros for the establishment of this agency. Whose money is that? Is that a new borrowing or are we gonna take it off the back of workers and peasants? Also, the funds for this agency's work will be provided from donations, loans, as if we had no shortcut to work and to invest those funds in our businesses and revive the fallen economy. For these and other reasons, as the MPs of the SRS speak, this law and this agency are not needed, because it is certain that Serbian radicals will not participate in the authorities of the agency, nor will they vote in favour of this law. In the end, I have to ask these financial powers, the government of Serbia, especially the minister who is not there – are they familiar with the state of the IRS in Krusevec? I'm asking you to take all the tests I'm going to make. Eight new high school workers were admitted to the Krusevec Office of Income in a permanent working relationship on 25 May 2005. Everyone had to have a state exam, and they didn't. By law, everyone had to have a law or economic college, but they didn't. Some of them had a degree in Megatrend College. They're the only members of the G17. Immediately afterwards, on June 30, 2005, two professionals who are professional have results behind them, and three children, with 10 years of employment, are declared a surplus or, as they call it, a reduced amount of work. This is amazing. If there's no job, I guess they get fired first by the ones you've hired illegally and who don't meet the legal requirements. The director of the Tax Administration in Kruševec is Mr. Ivan Spasojevic. He's a member of both the DSS and the G17. That's probably how he likes it. His brother and father have private companies. His brother has a private construction company that deals with making and selling apartments, paid taxes for the last four years of 72,000 dinars. Look what's there and how.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17206	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Dunjic to article 19. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17207	I will take this opportunity to include Articles 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24, regarding the amendment to Article 19, because the MPs of the SRS estimate that there is no need to explain these amendments anymore. We have said quite enough about this bill, to draw attention to all dangers and also to what is not allowed, and this law hides and promotes, not only as a political attitude, but also the interest of a large group. For the sake of the public, Article 19 provides for the tasks of the Management Board of the Agency. Article 20 provides that the Management Board shall elect the Executive Board and that the Executive Board shall be made by the Executive Directors, the number shall not be known, but shall not matter, given that all of this is specified in the Statute. Article 21 provides for something wrong, but in reverse words, so it is said: "The president of the Executive Board is the Director-General of the Agency". It was more correct to say that the Director-General of the Agency is also the chairman of the Executive Board, but this is not such a big failure to address the essential shortcomings of this bill. Article 22 regulates what these are general acts. First of all, these are the statutes and other acts that generally regulate matters relevant to the Agency's work. Wrong formulation. It's supposed to be said - the way you do business, but it doesn't matter. Article 23 states what all the statutes contain, stereotype powers. Article 24, final provision, that this law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". We have submitted amendments to all these members. Of course, we're asking these members to be deleted. Amendments are also legally possible, as is not only possible, but also necessary for this law not to be passed. In addition to the SRS contesting this bill, some other parties also disputed in the principle debate and over one single amendment submitted to this bill by another political party. And the political party has proposed that the government withdraw this bill because this is not like anything. In view of these many reasons that we have stated, arguments, we have specifically established some facts: that this law is a dead letter on paper that someone will only advertise and wave, but richly and end some private affairs within exactly, precisely certain stakeholders, we call on all MPs to bear in mind everything we have said about this bill, that these amendments are adopted and that this law is not passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-06-0.u17208	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Dunjic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 21st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djordjevic. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Tihomir Djuric. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Since we have completed a search of the Bill's proposal in particular, I conclude the search of the Bill's proposal in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 87 MPs are present in the hall, which is more than one third of the MPs, and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs Goran Knezevic and Sava Urosevic. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the GOVERNANCE FOND (specificities) You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been submitted to the draft law, before I conclude a search in detail whether or not the proposing representative is there, he wants to take the floor. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Financial Lising (specificities) You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Committee on European Integration and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, before I conclude the particulars search... In fact, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle and in general. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: – PROPOST OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC OF THE PUBLIC (dividence) You have received amendments submitted on the bill by the MPs: Mita Avramov, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Natasa Jovanović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Dragoljub Anastasovski, Zoran Antic, Veroljub Arsić, Suzana Grubšić, Igor Bečić, Branislav Blažić, Miloradžko Buha, Milan Vjeljinović, Živan Vladimirović, Boban Vojnović, Milivoje Vuković, Milomira Gajić, Rodoljub Gačević, Darko Glišić, Jovan Dajavić, Stožinović, Šiljan Žilić, Žilić Zilić, Žilić, Žilić Žilić and Žilić Žilić Žilić. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP Mit Avramov submitted to the 1st Amendment. The government and the Finance Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
