ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19158	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 95 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Davidović, Vojkan Tomic, Slobodan Pajovic, Velimir Stanojevic, Dejan Rajcic and Miroslav Markicevic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF CONSECURENCES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: together Sanja Čeković, Milan Ninić, Blagica Kostic and Staniš Stevanović; together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović; Vjerica Radeta, Veroljub Arsic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasic, Ksenija Milivojevic, Aleksandar Radosavljevic, Natasa Jovanovic, Milorad Mirčić, Momir Marković, Nemanja Sarović, Igor Bečić and Bozidar Koprivica. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic, in writing, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 23. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee, as well as the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19159	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's obvious that the mood continues from last night in this room. I need to look back at what happened last night in this House, for public purposes, and for a stenogram. When a colleague Krasic said that only six MPs of the coalition majority were sitting in this hall, then, after a few minutes, four other people and a minority cowboy walked through this assembly, even threatening their colleagues not to mention their name for this pay phone, and when we, irritated by such behaviour, left this hall, the debate was interrupted. So it's true what we said when you adopted the Rules of Procedure, that you adopt it just to shorten the path of law-making, so you can dissipate this Parliament's work, and that's what you're doing, and you're probably going to do today. Not you, but the President of the Assembly, he'll probably be saying at some point today that we're going to work until the debate is over in detail on the agenda point 18 hours ago. And it will happen again, again you who are voting blindly listening to the government, instead of the government listening to you, leaving the hall, and again there will be three or four MPs of the assembly majority. In the morning, gather here to give the quorum and you have no patience for five minutes, as long as you stay, to listen to the chairman, and then to the MP who speaks of the agenda. So much for the Rules of Procedure and so much for the seriousness of the so-called The congregation majority. We were talking about the competition law in the principle debate and we had a lot of objections. We were talking about the strange powers this law gives to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We spoke specifically about those most controversial members, and here I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, submitted an amendment to Article 1. The Member states that this law regulates the protection of competition on the market and establishes a Commission for the Protection of Competition, in order to encourage economic efficiency, to ensure the equality of market participants and to achieve the economic well-being of society in general, especially of consumers. We have suggested that words - the Commission is set up, among other things, to encourage economic efficiency, especially for consumers - are deleted, because we in the SRS think that this law should protect and encourage competition on the market, primarily because of the equality of participants, or about the same conditions of business, and therefore we think it is unacceptable to encourage business efficiency, because it is not known to what extent the Commission can affect business efficiency. It is true that business efficiency can be a goal, but only a market participant. Therefore, Article 1 which speaks of the case and the objective of the Competition Protection Commission sets out the role of the Commission and devises the whole law and the story of the representatives of the Government, and of the fellow who will vote for this law, who in their discussions speak exactly the opposite of what is presented in Article 1. It's a bill of law. I don't know why, Minister, you didn't accept this amendment. It's an amendment that shouldn't affect your basic idea and the concept of the law. It simply seems to me that this is a mistake mentioned in Article 1. If that's not the case, then you don't feel comfortable with the concept and then you have hidden intentions under this law. You're talking about protecting competition, and it's already in Article 1 that it's not like that and that's not your real intention. So, if my suspicion is established, then you will certainly not accept this amendment, and if it is your intention that this competition committee does what the MPs and citizens of Serbia expect it to do, then there is no reason to accept this amendment. I urge you, Minister, to reconsider and accept the amendment of the SRS. I call upon my colleagues to try, while they are here, to listen to us, so they can vote wisely, to accept this amendment, to make this law better, and since they obviously don't care, you've made a quorum, the restaurant is waiting for you, but don't disturb us in the work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19160	Thank you. The word has the minister of trade and tourism, Mr Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19161	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, last time, the session was closed in a short time, and then I remained obliged to comment, which was in principle debate, which will directly or indirectly have to do with the amendments proposed. I'd like to take a brief look at some of the remarks that have been made. When it comes to anti-monopol law, there is one observation, perhaps the most significant, that the anti-monopol law has not yet been applied. It's probably the most accurate finding it's ever been. That's why I said that the introduction of a competition commission and its successful work is a truly almost revolutionary newspaper and I hope that, in that sense, the commission will be able to work quickly and quickly, because it will have its hands full. There was one remark that this ministry had weak legislative activity, as it only passed one law. However, I will remind, as the remark came from the order of a corresponding parliamentary group, that the previous minister belonging to the parliamentary group, no law was passed for his term. I hope we bring here at least five, and probably 10 laws. Even when you divide one by zero, you get plus infinite. As for some of the objections that have arisen, I have to tell some of the MPs here that this first law is called competition law, and some of the MPs have not read the title properly, so they said it was a law on protection against competition. It's just a matter of work, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a law on protection against monopoly, a law on the protection of competition. You didn't say, Mrs. Radeta, I can't be sure, but several members of your parliamentary group have called this law a law on protection against competition. Read the title carefully, and get a lot deeper into the essence of the proposal. As for some objections, one of the remarks was whether the Competition Protection Commission could be financed from the budget? It may be in the first year, but we have also later provided for some amendments that have become an integral part of the law that, when the existing funds are not enough for the Commission to work, then a budget can be reported as a mechanism that will bridge the lack of funds to ensure the smooth work of the commission. It was one of the objections regarding donations directed at the Anti-Monopolitan Commission, or the Competition Protection Commission, but it is clear there that those concerned by this law cannot be donors in any variant, which is extremely important. These are the most important remarks, I think, that were related to the competition law. When it comes to advertising law, I've grouped a few basic remarks. For example, one observation is that this law does not highlight the problem of electronic advertising and is not sufficiently highlighted. It can be said that all the rules, related to advertising, refer to electronic advertising as well. But I am also giving you information that we are now making two more laws: the law on trade and the law on electronic trade, which will further regulate the matter of electronic advertising, and which I hope by the end of the year will also be on the agenda of the Assembly. Then, this law is fully in line with the Radio Diffusion Act. It was not the correct observation that the law was not in conformity with the Radio-Difusion Act in part. The law on broadcasting regulates the issue of advertising, while the law regulates the issue of advertising, which is still a wider area than the issue of advertising. The remark that the Broadcasting Agency does not have the authority or that it should not decide on sports programmes, which is a programme of national importance, also does not stand, because in the relevant members of the Radio-Difusion Act this right was given unequivocally to the broadcasting board, or to the broadcasting agency. The remark that was related to the radio programme also doesn't seem to stand, because the law says that advertising rules will be applied accordingly to radio advertising. The word "wise" does not mean that it will be the same application, but means that it will respect the specificities of the media as it worked. Furthermore, there have been some remarks, let's say, about the price law. Two are basic: whether they should explicitly enter products or product groups that will be subject to control, i.e. a special regime. We thought we shouldn't, because these product groups are a variable category; sometimes a product group will grow, and hopefully, over time, a group of products, which are under some kind of social control, will decrease. Also, when it comes to the NB Act and its role in price stability, I say this: the objective of stability of the price is set out in the NB Act. So it's about the goal. The aim is also in the powers, i.e. the work of this ministry and the Ministry of Finance. Since inflation is a complex phenomenon, it is not enough and it is very often impossible to stop inflation with only monetary policy measures within the domain of the NB, but also to apply measures related to supply and market stability, as well as measures related to fiscal policy, which, of course, is within the scope of the Ministry of Finance's authority. As regards this role of a first-degree, second-degree body, etc. I think it's clear from the law. Where jobs are entrusted, you know exactly which organ is first-degree, second-degreed at the level of local self-government. Where powers are detained within the ministry, then the second-degree body is the minister. It is true that this question has been properly resolved. There were a lot of objections that talked about us not having macroeconomic stability. This may not be the end of the occasion, but I'm saying we have almost total macroeconomic stability. We have a pretty high rate of social product growth. Last year she was the highest in the environment. We have a significantly improved foreign trade balance, which is likely to be a third better than last year. We have a significant acceleration of the privatisation process. Practically, if we exclude public systems, with which privatisation has also begun, this process is being completed, and we have an inflation rate which, I'm almost sure, will be below 15% by the end of the year and which may be only 3% higher than projected, primarily because of the fact that oil prices are rising on the world market. Therefore, to what extent the market is supplied, there is really no need to explain more in detail. Also, there was one remark that these laws were not subject to broad public debate. I don't know if there were any laws that were more public debate than these laws were. They were also at the Serbian-City Chamber of Commerce and other regional chambers of commerce, at various consumer associations, professional and professional associations. She had the opportunity to declare them to the academic public, various international institutions, including the EU institutions in Belgrade and representatives of many other agencies, including the media. When it comes to the competition protection commission, how the objections were made, I wrote them down. It was said it would take 50 million dinars for her to work. Of course, it will be necessary in the middle of the year, and after that from its own tariff and the collection of the corresponding services, I am almost certain, the commission will support itself and thus will not be a burden for the budget and for the citizens. But I think the positive effects of this commission's work in the coming years, if it works properly, will be measured by hundreds of millions of euros. That is why the initial amount of 50 million dinars is indeed a symbolic figure compared to the positive effects that good application of this law will bring for consumers and for Serbia's economy. Finally, when it comes to macroeconomic stability, despite the fact that prices are growing slightly faster than what we have projected, statistics prove that purchasing power is growing faster than price levels, i.e. that wages are rising at an average faster rate than prices, and therefore we are recording from month to month the rise in purchasing power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19162	Thank you. The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19163	Let's get back to the amendment, because this is a debate in particular. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted a very small number of amendments to the bill for the simple reason that there is a principled difference in the concept of how antimonopol should look and how the state should fight monopoly behaviour on the market. The government has defined this bill as a different concept, but it didn't go to the end and then it came out of everything a little bit, which makes this law an extremely bad law. This law almost does not touch the monopoly, natural monopoly, does not touch companies that are active in the general interest, and if we look at the structure of our economy, probably 60% of all business activities are just carried out through such enterprises - Elektroprivreda, Telekom, railways and I do not order further, public enterprises of republican interest and public enterprises of local importance. They're not even touched by this bill. There are several systems governing the market, stopping, preventing, limiting and excluding the monopoly behaviour of market participants. One of these systems is that all laws governing the way in which the activity is done maximum liberalisation of the conditions, so that as many entities as possible could be able to deal with certain activities. It's this normative offense that, I must say, is present in the National Assembly. Most of our laws that have been passed here are essentially an incentive to develop competition on our market. But there is another part of that struggle to prevent, sanction, punish, disable monopolitical behavior. You see, when you look at Article 2, what this law contains, what it wants to stop, it's to communicate, abuse of dominant position and concentration. Concentration as a third vision is likely to exist for 20 years as a vision, i.e. a form of market abuse. I now return to this Article 1 and to this amendment. It is not good to put in law some paroles that are probably individual economic categories burdening market participants, burdening statistics, burdening politicians, but they do not mean anything else. This is also covered by this amendment of ours, where we asked to delete these words "encourage economic efficiency". Why would that be the primary goal of the state? If the market is free, if the state ensures equality and equality of all economic operators on the market, then why are we putting this in to encourage economic efficiency? Among us, in some areas it is not even good to encourage economic efficiency because more people are employed and some social issues are addressed. Since this is in the domain of an economic and political category, it should not burden the law. We just drew attention to the fact that it should be thrown out of the text of the law, because basically it doesn't mean anything. How would someone call this category, someone explain it to me? The efficiency of turning Serbia into an economy is that and that's what we're going to do with this law to improve it. How? To prevent abuse of a dominant position? Why increase efficiency? It depends on other factors. You can prevent abuse of dominant position, jump fuel to $200 per barrel -- how did you increase efficiency? You know, those parolees need to be kicked out of the law, because they don't really mean anything. This law has a lot of passwords. We tried to change these things a little bit. The basic lack of this law is that it doesn't fight those who have a monopoly position, it doesn't even matter how they got to the monopoly position. The power industry has a monopoly position, and this law does not apply to it at all. Telekom has a monopoly position. Why he has a monopoly position - because he has no competition. Who's the competition, Elektroprivredi? Find her for me. The difference between the dominant position and the monopoly position is whether there is no competition or there is some slight competition, so you expressed there in those percentages, which is ultimately correct. A monopoly position may have, as you now use these terms "relevant market", "relevant product", which essentially means nothing. In a village, a merchant has a monopoly position. If they're supposed to go from that village to the next store five kilometers, it's clear. If one bakery delivers bread to one store, and this store is in a smaller place, of course it's a monopoly position, because naturally there can't be another competition. You can open up as much market as you want, but there's no interest in anyone going there just to compete with this, and there's no traffic to make. When I took the word for this first opening member, I would point to another conceptal disagreement. The rule is, since the fight against monopolies and the ban on abuse of a monopoly position is a constitutional category, part of the third generation of rights prescribed by international documents, and also by our Constitution, why not also potential, then it must also apply in this area the principle on which the legislative jurisdiction of the National Assembly is based to regulate certain rights by law. If the way we do things is regulated by law, then many of the things that you have prescribed here are in the power of the government, they must be in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, or they must be governed by this law. We also have a cavity around the relevant market, the relevant product and other provisions where criteria, criteria and something to determine whether there is a dominant position. As far as the monopolies are concerned, you've only solved the issue of monopolitical communication, but you haven't even touched the status of a monopoly. You obviously don't want to touch it because you think only the state has that monopoly. On many examples, I'm going to show you that the Karic brothers have a monopoly, and even these other neo-components have a monopoly. So, if people have chains of their objects, they have a rounded production and transport continent, what are they? Formally-legal you can put a trade next to some big discount, but he's a monopoliest again on that relevant market of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19164	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19165	Here's a sequel to what I just said. Article 2 has the title - Competition injury. It is stated in the introductory statement that these are acts and actions, and the infringements are listed as agreements, then abuse of dominant position and as a third form of concentration. It is then prescribed in the following paragraph 2 that, already some criterion of how it is calculated is, as it is determined, an important prevention and restriction or distortion of competition referred to in point (1) and (2) of point (1), is not taken to abuse a dominant position, is assessed depending on the specific case according to which some criteria are now mentioned. And what follows in Section 3, which we are asking to delete, the government of the Republic of Serbia is closer to laying down the criteria set out in Article 2. Why do we think the government shouldn't do that? For one simple reason, it is a way of achieving something prescribed by the Constitution. If this is a way of achieving something prescribed by the Constitution, then it must be prescribed by law. With this amendment, we wanted to draw your attention that what you stated in paragraph 3 is not constitutional. You can't sublaw it. I have to tell you that there is another system as well as how it is arranged, but that other system depends on the legal position of the anti-monopoly commission, no matter what you call it. In parallel, it is known that the anti-monopoly commission, based on legal authority, prescribes itself some criteria that it will apply. For what? Because she's moving out. It's not close to the Assembly, it's not close to the government, it's an independent quasi-government body that can monitor what's happening on the market with its standards and criteria. It's a situation where explicit authority comes from the law, which has quite a resonance. This is how it is possible to disenfranchise the work of the commission, because the government will prescribe something for it, and what it says now may be protected by Janko Jankovic, and tomorrow in some new constellation Bogoljub Karic, he changes the criteria, so he is no longer in that position, so now all his power to control "Astra Simit", astra this, astra what, "Mobtel" "Mobi click" etc. and this system of companies with both capital and influence. It is therefore prescribed by law or by law authorised by the Anti-Monopolitan Commission to prescribe these criteria and those criteria. It's much better when it's objectively done by law, as far as our legal-political system is concerned. It's not bad if the law gives the authority to do an anti-monopolis commission, with only one small problem, which is that it lays down regulations and applies regulations, and then it's mandatory to have judicial protection, of course, in the administrative dispute, where the legality of what the Commission has done with its individual legal act, not criteria and criteria is controlled. The criteria and criteria it brings can be the subject of the Constitutional Court's assessment, and you gave this to the Government, which will sort it out, and then we know how it's going to work. When she's in good relations with Dracula, then it's going to be full of sails, when she's in bad relationships -- let's change this criterion. How? At the commission's request, she concluded that something was wrong on the market, let's change these criteria, and we'll move on. It's purely a matter of principled objections, with that fundamental remark that you haven't even touched the monopolies. Believe me, in 90% of the cases of what is happening on our market and this agreement does not appear in item 1 of point 1) of this article, there is no agreement, either horizontal or vertical, or whatever you want, or borderline, or at the level of any association. There's no need to show up. Which Karic would make an agreement with himself. Explain to me, please. So I say, the whole concept of the law is wrong and inapplicable to me. Here, now don't turn out to be radicals just criticizing. And in 1996, when it was passed, when an anti-monopolitan law was passed in the Federal Assembly, then I was an MP, we voted against the law. Why? Because he wasn't finished. Is that law applicable? One time in an attempt to renovate an anti-monopoly commission and try something. It's probably 50 to 100 solutions. Since 2000, at work, no one has been allowed to think about the anti-monopoly commission, because the question has been raised, perhaps at the moment when we are coming out of a crisis, it may be necessary to look to create such a little stronger company that will be generators, triggers, etc. That was present. To complete the process of accumulation of the original capital. Now that the accumulated capital is jeopardizing power, let's now remember the anti-monopoly commission and get going. The concept law, the anti-monopol law is better than this. It is much better that you have accepted this concept and that you have built it up, developed it, and with regard to the work of the Anti-Monopoly Commission, the composition of the Anti-Monopoly Commission and other things, and to install these concentration provisions as well. We couldn't stand the changes around the concentration, but it was set wrong. This is where the concentration occurs as a previous question. If I can develop as an economic operator, and if all the regulations have allowed me to develop, I can trade, I can buy actions, and now I have to ask the Antimonopoly Commission if I can buy. You know, the Anti-Monopolitan Commission probably acts preventively with its statements and its solutions to everything, but if we need to ask the Anti-Monopoly Commission for a status change, then I'm sorry, please, you're in the opposite direction with regard to what the government is doing. The government is going towards decentralisation, deetatisation, and now, for business activities, the commission has to be asked. We have not submitted amendments here, for the simple reason that we know this law cannot be applied. Very simple. We want you to take this with you politically, because you're going to leave power early. As soon as you start applying this law, you're going after everyone. First of all, to your interest groups, who conceived you like that. You know, the G17 represents this company, the SPO of this, the DSS of this, that constellation, the bosses got into a fight. If you go with this committee, it's over, you'll be wiped out, you won't get their support anymore. That's why we didn't want to stop you, especially now that some are not even mentally able to understand our amendments anymore. If the amendment erases that word, brings another word, they say -- everything is deleted, as one smart guy came out here last night and said, and one doesn't even know what the agenda is. So we have a political interest in allowing you to leave the government as soon as possible. Start with the app, make sure you're out of power right now, because you're hitting on your sponsors and those who set you up. Look for yourself, there will be concessions, other things, you know who's reaching out to, who's protecting the "Mobtel." Half the government attacks, half the government protects. There's a lot of nice things going on. We deliberately did not submit amendments to the concentration provisions, and they were wrongly set. You can check someone's concentration, but you can't ask someone for consent, so before all business activities are free. How can you change other laws with this law? Now she wants the company to buy some company's stock, she has to apply to the commission. Is this a concentration that can lead to market disturbances, that is, creating a new position? You've messed up those pots a little bit and make sure this hurts a lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19166	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Petar Jojic submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19167	He can hardly find any logic between Article 7 and Article 9. Article 7 is a principle, and Article 9 is an exception, an individual exemption from the prohibition. Of course, we didn't want to touch you, to get involved as soon as possible, but we've turned your attention to Section 3. You see how the government is experiencing in this concept of law. "The government is closer to determining the content of the individual exemption requirements." So, the government is authorized to create a pattern, not a "Contemporary Administration", not a textbooks' office, not some printing industry, but a government prescribes the content of the requirements. So, the government's down to Dad's level. Article 6 says "the relevant market", according to space, and yet again the final position says, "The government is closer to setting criteria for the relevant market". The relevant market is a variable category and depends, above all, on what's going on in some territory. What I have just stated, since some members have been skipped, in Article 4, the last position says: "This law does not apply to enterprises, companies and entrepreneurs who carry out a general interest activity, as well as to persons who have been assigned fiscal monopoly by the law of the competent authority", cigarettes and alcohol. Then what do you need the law for? And the one before you, the Djelic, in five years' time, solved the cigarette excise, agreed in advance, set up a super monopoly, extra benches. He took care of it all. He says, "who perform the works of general interest." The activities of general interest are those of activity whose performance is an irreplaceable condition for life and work in a given area: heat, water, sewerage, electricity, traffic. That doesn't touch this law, because local self-government takes care of it. Yesterday we talked about that there's not even a competition, the directors are setting up towards the parcels -- she caught this party and she's pushing it. You know what, you must inevitably hit a bit of a political monopoly with this law, because 60% of all business activities are carried out through these public enterprises or in relation to these public enterprises. You're not just gonna control the trades and fight the monopolies in the trades, are you? City traffic, railways. Here's a question, everyone's avoiding it -- why did the railroad lift some lines? What alternative? She's gone. What kind of behavior is that? In the initial provisions, you said that the personal application of this law involves business entities, businesses, entrepreneurs, natural, legal persons and state bodies. Now the quasi state body, as an administrative organisation -- will be controlled by a state body that carries out some economic activity. It's a concept mistake, and it's a big mistake. Now we see what you're authorising the government to prescribe a request form. Article 7 says: "Acts that have or may have a significant prevention, restriction and distortion of competition in the relevant market", which "essentially" is again estimated by the Government, "are agreements, contracts, individual contract provisions, express or silent agreements". I don't know how these silent arrangements are gonna get fixed. No one's found a formula yet how a silent agreement can be established. It says "harmonised practices, decisions of the association of market participants" etc. "The agreements of this member's position are also prohibited, and in particular agreements which directly and indirectly establish purchase or sale prices or other terms of trade." What could be the individual exception? What is prescribed by Article 9, that the Commission may, at the request of the participants in the agreement, mean whoever concluded all of this in Article 7, which participates in this, approve the exemption of an agreement or part of that agreement from the prohibition, if that agreement, or its work, contributes to the improvement of production or distribution. I guess they'll all say they made an agreement to improve production or distribution. None of these others would say, "I made this agreement to make it impossible to produce." Once again, the government will release this through the commission because the engine of development is on NN Street. Bad bill, unspeakable, especially with vertical agreements. So if it's up to seven years - it can, if the duration is longer than seven years - it can't. The basic point of these agreements, I'm spreading a little bit, since we haven't submitted any amendments here, and there's time, is that everyone has to be given to the commission. Why do they have to give? He who concluded, he does not know in advance what position the commission will be on after two years. If the commission takes the view after two years that the agreement is in the post of market abuse, fines from one to 10% are possible, as it is sufficient for the commission to establish futility, because by law, these agreements are zero. In order not to find out in two years that they're nothing and to get everything he's been doing for two years, now everyone has to chase in front of the commission to give their business-technical agreements, it doesn't even matter what those agreements are called, because here they say silent agreements. You'll probably be going to the congruent shops as well. He's frowning, he's winking, he's probably overly silently arranged this. You know what, something like this can't go into the law. It would be good if you pulled this off, because anything that goes on in the analysis of this law, believe me, it's going to be too tragic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19168	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I also find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic together submitted an amendment to the title above Articles 15 and 15. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19169	I'm surprised they didn't accept it because nothing changes the law, but probably someone at the Institute of Comparative Law wrote this, and then stubbornly insists on this. Article 18 refers to the prohibitions of abuse of a dominant position and is now stating what is the abuse of a dominant position, and two before that define what is the dominant position based on the participation of a particular economic operator in the market. In point 2 is said: abuse of dominant position in the relevant market for goods and services is considered to limit the production, market or technical development to consumer harm. I don't know how to limit technical development. All I know is that you can limit production or limit something that's going on on the market. Technical development is on the market, if new technology is introduced, it is bought and it is all on the market. If technical development is considered here, I don't know how any innovation or achievement can be ordered by someone that they have to trust in any way. If I have some new technological invention I use it for my product, I want to produce the only exclusive product. I don't understand what you could have meant by this. How can I, as a patent owner, disrupt the technological development of someone? The Americans have an F-16 and why would they let it produce another F-16? Who can make them give someone else? It's not all about the law. So, he misused his position on the market that is dominant, so he prevents market development, chokes competition and creates market disturbances. How can a developmental disorder? Development is my exclusive, it's all messed up. Electronics produce X-ray machines, that's the stuff that sells. Comes a buyer with money, buys, they give him and delivers the product. If he doesn't bring the money, there's no product. What does that have to do with technological development in another institution using an X-ray machine? He won't sell the bolt, so he's limited technological development. You've got a lot of confusion here, because everyone's fighting to have an exclusive product, everyone's fighting to have an exclusive right to that product. Why would "Adidas" if he estimated that he had one of his dealers here, one distributor, he concludes with him an exclusive contract, then the Jaeger company, the Simmons, those who sell resonances, which sell solutions, etc., they want to unify that. He's got some business interest, and why would he work with six people, he'll only work with one firm here. This -- technological development, it's excess, and I'm just surprised you didn't accept it because it doesn't change anything. There's also been technical developments on the market for a long time. It doesn't happen beyond the market. Vinci found something, so he needs someone else to use, of course he's looking for money for it, he can't give it away. I don't know why you put it in here, because this is where the market is regulated, and the regulations on scientific research are different species, they have other rules. It's not here. What's the point and what's the point of this law is to prevent market disturbances, which could be caused by someone misusing their position, whether they're monopolistic or dominant. That's the whole point of this law. Why does someone abuse their dominant position? To achieve material benefits and to disrupt the market. Outside of that, we can't go. The Constitution won't let us. When it prescribes what is forbidden, and monopolitical behaviour on the market is forbidden, now what is all this behavior: it is abuse of a monopolitical position and in the context of abuse of a monopolitical position, agreements, agreements, price arrangements, etc. One side is so strong that it imposes conditions on others who have to accept, and here in technological development, I don't know where you found the connection. This isn't a law on scientific research, this isn't a copyright law. Not everything in the directive can go. Article 20 says - the Commission can, at the request of market participants, which has a dominant position on the relevant market, establish that the individual actions that the participant intends to take are not actions that abuse the dominant position. You can't do that. So I'm not the absolute monopolies, I'm not the only one, I'm announcing to the commission what I think I'm doing, so please tell the commission whether it's an act or an act of abuse of dominant position. It can't be like that. It can't be what it's presumption is that it's free to condition anything. Traffic of goods, services and capital is free. It can be controlled, and if any abuse and damage arises from it, the state is obliged to intervene. In this case, the commission may post the event to intervene, but here you are now forcing everyone to address the commission. Good afternoon, I'm in a dominant position, selling 70% of the bread in the village, and this one across the street, Dick, selling the 30%, I intend to do something about this here, please tell me if I'm going to abuse it. The Commission explained to him - you will not abuse it, you can work. It can't be, it can't be business to ask the anti-monopoly commission, but the anti-monopoly commission controls the regularity of market behaviour and takes action against those who abuse their position. There's been a change of logic. In 1999 and 2000, a group of people worked on a new anti-monopoly law, which was based primarily on the concept of the existing anti-monopol law, with additions that are inevitable because they changed the forms of abuse of a monopoly position and with the aim of working out as many criteria as possible, criteria to make it clear, applicable, so that the commission could act, but instead of continuing to do so, this is now being debated completely. What's in those directives isn't what anyone would read. If you take a man who's planted on one side and he reads it that literally, then you'll see if penicillin needs to be given I have to ask the Antimonopoly Commission. If I'm going to sell penicillin to someone, I have to ask the Anti-Monopoly Commission if it's not an abuse of my dominant position. You know, all the semi-products and basic chemistry products, that's all it can be in the function of technological development, because without them other branches that lean on can't work. That's why I'm telling you that this law will be inadmissible, and if anyone sets out to apply this law through this commission, then it will be purely willful. It's self-involved! You saw yourself just now, the government prescribed a request form - name, last name, home number, code of activity, etc. Don't pull this back, so work it out so this looks like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19170	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninić, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevovic jointly submitted the 20th amendment. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Trade and Tourism has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninić, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevovic. The government has accepted this amendment. The Committee on Trade and Tourism has not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Ksenija Milivojevic submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ksenija Milivojevic submitted to the 36th Amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Radosavljevic submitted to the 36th Amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19171	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our proposal is about members of the council. We consider it perfectly normal and instructed that the composition of the council be more numerical than it is proposed in the law. In fact, the promoter delivered to us that the number of members is five and, as we said in the principle debate, we believe that this idea is not good, because it will not achieve the goal of what the promoter wanted, that it may be possible to prevent possible pressures that one might be able to make on members of the council. The idea of this amendment is that the number of members of the council should be 11. Why 11? Because we believe that if a larger number is more difficult, it will also have an impact on the members of the council, and then it will certainly have some full credibility and at the beginning of its operation will not come into situations that are quite realistically possible. If we bear in mind that this is a new institute, that the advice should be brought to life in its full scope, then we consider the proposed solution of 11 members to be quite acceptable. Why do we still think 11 is more optimal at this point than 5? For the simple reason that, in further discussion of the law, the proposer suggests that in the event that the session is attended by four members of the council and that there be an undecided number of votes on certain issues, the president's vote shall be decided. That solution is not good. That solution is unconstitutional. I just remind you of the argument that the representatives of the ruling group had on the point that was related to the broadcasting and broadcasting council, where they literally said it was unacceptable for the ruling majority that a member of the Vojvodina council had the right to veto. In this case, we are in a position for the president to be the one to give himself the right to judge in concrete cases. Who can guarantee us that in certain situations he may not have been subjected to the influence of individual groups, interested groups related to the issue regulated by this law. Therefore, we really believe that the proposed solution that we have made in the amendment, that the number of members of the council is greater than what is in the bill, means that we increase the number of members of the council from five to 11, is something that will relieve the pressure that can arise in a situation like this and not come into a situation where we have anti-constitutional solutions, and it is very likely that such situations can be. And in case it's two to two, if the President's vote is crucial, I remind you once again that the anti-constitutional solution is not good, and we think that our amendment is far better. In this way, we will make a much better composition of the advice, and once again we will be in a situation that, when such an institution is formed, we will raise doubts that abuses or pressures of individual interest groups can occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19172	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment that I have tabled on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to the 36th proposed competition law, which speaks of authorised proposals for the selection of these five members of the council, is in line with the constant commitment of the SRS and, with our view, divided into the structure of the government into legislative and executive and on what one should do and what the other, and who is authorised to propose members of the council. In the opinion of Serbian radicals, and not only for this advice, I must remind you when it was the National Educational Council and the other so-called The regulatory bodies, the Government, appointed by the national representatives, so with such a majority as it has, not wrinkly but entirely uncertain, from opportunity to opportunity, should propose members of the council. Why are we looking for this? Because it is unacceptable that what the promoter gave us, as well as this idea that she had for her colleague Milivojevic, to complement these structures of alleged respected experts, those who should propose members of the council, and she even tried to extend it by amendment and add to the bar, registered association of businessmen. Imagine now, Bogoljub Karic, around whom the ring is tightening more and more because of his large criminal affairs and actions he has done, to propose a member of the council. Imagine that it prevents competition, the one holding an absolute monopoly in the area of telecommunications, that is, through the possession of Mobtel, or through all the other dirty work he's doing. On the other hand, attitude one is also unacceptable to us. This formulation that is repeated from law to law, that's that dossical manner, starting in 2001, and so on, you say -- it's proposed from the ranks of respected experts. Of course it is acceptable for us to say - from the field of law or economy and to have the necessary knowledge from the field of competition protection. So, that these are lawyers or economists, who have dealt with this area, but the question is and it's disputable, you know, right now, to tell you -- respected experts, when all the staff, and we've seen it through the consideration of the law on state administration and state officials, which the government collects to itself, so ministers who have received certain resolutions, not that they're not respected experts, but many of them have indeed proved very unprofessional in the field they deal with. This is what we have demonstrated when the Law on Higher Education, Experts and Assistants of Slobodan Vuksanovic was on the agenda, and so when we go from one ministry to another, that I am not talking about your intention or the manner that you have, you point your finger at someone and you say, "This one is professional," it immediately appears in the impact information shows, immediately explains. You know, it's so unprofessional, in fact, from that mile of yours that it's so that a man grabs his head. Wherever you look, on any television, in any morning program, especially the RTS Journal, all of your experts to experts from various areas. We are sick and tired of, here's the example, when it comes to economists, such a devastating policy implemented in the financial sector by Mladjan Dinkic, a little bit, from morning to morning, also comes the mother of Mirosinka, is a great expert in the area of economy and explains what will happen to pensions and pensioners, what are the movements in the money market, capital, etc. We believe that these defeated experts, or experts for you and for the miles you belong to, are certainly not for many other people. Who's the one who needs to assess who these respected experts are? It's the same for years when you've been considering some imaginary future law on university, the best of course was the one that was brought in in 1998, and this one from a few days ago is more than scandalous. Then they switched to round tables of state television, and many other professors, very competent people never had a chance to say anything about it. As is the case in the area of economics, especially this transition economy. If we are to observe and assess who is an expert in some area and who deserves to be found in a particular place, we must also take complete professional engagement, and from the scientific field of that man, that person. For example, you will never think of a professor who may be a random or deliberate member of the SRS, who deals with everything that is happening on our market in this transition economy. We have a prominent expert in our ranks when it comes to this. To mention Professor Dr. Sreten Sokić, who, through economics and what the economy of transition is in the most constructive sense, even when it comes to competition and its protection, has done so, publishing one scientific opus, a book that is instructive for everyone. But you would never invite him or anyone else, nor would you ask him for advice. It's good for you to be amazed, to have a circle of your own and say, that's good for us, that's an expert. I really don't know what's wrong with this display up there, but I'd have to have the chairman explain it to me, or it's just the power outage, or I can talk for an hour or two, there's no problem. The topic is very interesting, especially how to protect ourselves from competition in Serbia, in which the economy collapses from day to day, in which almost nothing is produced. You're free of the "let's buy your homework" action when, according to the structure of production from one branch to another, everything is thin, very thin. Besides, the Republic Bureau of Statistics has to come up with that kind of data. While I am already on this amendment and our principled position, the only correct one, that members of the council should suggest that the government of the Republic of Serbia, as executive authority in the country, should repeat what we have spoken in the principle of the bill's proposal, which is, as long as there is such an import lobby, to whom absolutely no one can, neither the Prime Minister nor you ministers, is pointless to pass such and similar laws and to count that this advice or anyone else will be able to oppose those who earn millions of dollars through unfair competition or business in their own known way, and these are so-called. new, old man, whatever you want, Serbian tycoons. I call upon all SRS MPs who want to come out and speak according to my amendment, it is time, ladies and gentlemen of the Serbian Radicals, and the rest of you are boundless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19174	To let you know, you've been talking for eight and a half minutes. You've got six and a half minutes left. True, the top watch is broken, but there's control here. He'll probably fix it. Anyone else want a word? Yes, Ambassador Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the reason for the amendment to Miss Natasa Jovanovic lies in this second part below. She suggested that members of the council be elected by the Assembly and the Government. The law states that members of the council are elected by authorised proposings, so you've listed authorised proposings. But you didn't count one big group, although it was big in 2000, and now it's a little smaller, but if you want it to be democratic, where your women are in black, plus Voojin Dimitrijevic, where the Helsinki Committee, where your People's Movement "Resist", has been sitting up here for days since 2000, I guess you learned something. Some, though, crossed over, slightly yellowed, and the rest of them don't know where they're staying. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, an explanation why you did not adopt the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, to find him, says: "The decision set out in the bill is better and more precise than the proposed amendment. "We propose by amendment that the National Assembly and the Government choose, and this is better and more precisely - the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, the Scientific Society of Economists of Serbia, the Law Chamber of Serbia, the Chamber of Commerce. You know very well who the president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce is. The government of the Republic of Serbia is in the last place. However, this government is the last place in Serbia at all, but we hope that after the next elections, there will be a change of government, not that we hope, but we are convinced, we are sure there will be a change of government. That government will take a place at all levels that belong to it, which is the first place. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please accept the amendment of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's MP and delete this unnecessary ballast in forming this very important body.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19176	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Ambassador Milorad Mircic has submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19177	The government and the authorities of the state administration enforce laws, and only them, and others are obliged to respect them and act in accordance with the law. The exclusive enforcement of the law is the work of the government and the authorities of the state administration. Law enforcement is also a choice. In the election process, regardless of some differences that may arise, technical nature, and the proposal is an integral part of the election process. So someone outside the government couldn't be an authorized promoter. That is why this amendment, which follows practically the previous amendment, has been tabled, which regulates the issue of the authorised promoter. So we think and ask for this amendment that the government proposes to the National Assembly members of the Protection Commission. That's the whole point of what we've been looking for both this and the next amendments, and the previous amendment. Another reason lies in the fact that there are several laws where a similar way of choosing is envisaged, as the government has suggested, where some authorised proposings exist. Article 37 regulates that part of the process, what authorised proposings do and how they do it. We have these bad experiences. Some similar solutions exist in the election of the Broadcasting Agency Council, with one and another educational council and some institutions. I think it is also a matter of the National Bank of Serbia Council, which is also complicated, I say illegally and unconstitutionally, and according to the name of the authorised promoters, it can be precisely guess who might be proposed for this first election. However, the question arises whether members of the council, in addition to being respected experts in the areas mentioned here, should meet other conditions. Why am I asking this question? I ask this question because of a member of the 31st draft law, which states in Section 1 that the commission is an independent and independent organisation, which exercises public authority, in accordance with this law. Maybe you didn't follow the transfer yesterday and the day before yesterday, we were talking about state administration law and civil servants law. We then criticised the concept of the law on state administration in terms of the very concept and the understanding of what the authorities of the state administration, the administration within ministries, the administration of inspectorates, directorates, special organisations, secretariats and institutions are. Let me remind you, we've already made a critical point of view about the idea of mass formation of agencies, which is also unspeakable in our legal system. When we take all of this and look at what you have written, it is practically one administrative organisation and one who solves certain rights and obligations, and that is certainly advice, the President of the Council signs the solutions, given that all this is done in a more or less clear administrative procedure, and also in the provisions on the procedure, you have only listed some specificities which would be characteristic, and basically you are referring to the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. The question arises: whether these decision-makers must also meet the additional conditions required for all those officials who act and apply the law in the national authority. I'm more inclined to believe that you've defined yourself as an independent, independent and professional organization, which deals with this business among other things, but this is how we practically don't have the right insight into the legal position of the commission, and especially its advice. I need to draw your attention that it may have been a better concept that professional jobs for the needs of a commission, which should not have advice, are doing the appropriate ministry, and that the commission is essentially a body that makes solutions, because this is how you create a new management organisation, which I don't think is necessary at this point, not just for the cost. And if you think that's how you're going to ensure the independence of this committee, you're wrong, that's what I have to tell you, because if this is the way you're going to propose candidates for the members of this committee, you've got a commission in the beginning to sit on people with clearly opposed interests, as is the case with the Broadcasting Council. In the Broadcasting Council, everything is exactly parcelled. It is known what the president represents, what the other members represent, who he weighs, why he stretches and, of course, the Radiodifuge Council almost made no decision. How to make a decision when it hits someone else's pitch. However, it will be similar to this commission if it is elected on the proposal of these authorised proposings. Furthermore, you know there is a problem with the status of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. We're probably the only state that has the Chamber of Commerce Act. With us, Serbia's Chamber of Commerce is a mandatory organisation for economic operators. It can't even be a partner in collective bargaining, because it doesn't meet the basic requirements, it's not created voluntarily by businessmen, industrialists, etc. What we are offered as an alternative is that it was created by voluntary association of businessmen and industrialists bearing the sign of Bogoljub Karic. When you play with democracy, make sure you don't play too much. I hope that as we comment on it, you are becoming increasingly aware that this bill must be withdrawn because such a thread cannot be applied, and if you start to apply it, it will be far more severe consequences than any accidental benefit that would arise from the application of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19178	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as something breaks down here every day, one day the National Assembly leaks, the next day, the third day your coalition breaks down, I really won't be obliged to fit my discussion into these six and a half minutes, because you were obliged to provide the necessary technical conditions for the work of the National Assembly and to lead this session, because I absolutely can't know how long it's been, and I hope you won't abuse your function as chairman to throw me away and thus disrupt the course of my thoughts, and I could also get confused and start all over again. As for the amendment, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic, to article 37 of this law, and requested to delete this member, I think it is something that should be accepted, because the complete concept that you have given here through this law on the selection of this council as the basic body of the Competition Protection Commission is completely wrong. The provisions are mostly vague, vague, and that's something that our people would say could happen and not have to, especially down south. In the third position, for example, it is said "the president of the Assembly at least 20 days before deciding on the election of a member of the council, in a convenient manner, publicly publishes all valid lists of candidates submitted by authorised applicants, with basic biographical data on candidates". What does that mean, "the President of the Assembly publishes in a convenient manner"? Whether Mr. Markovic or someone else, because this law is passed for a long time than how long he will be president of the National Assembly, he can choose and choose himself; for one president this will be appropriate, for another president it will be appropriate. If he considers it appropriate to go out the window and yell, would that be enough to respect this legal obligation, and to say, here he publicly announced, was the man in the window, yelled three times that's what you, basic biographic data, so whoever heard, heard. If you are establishing an obligation by law, then it is necessary that this obligation be in a normal way, that it is known whether it will be in the Official Messenger, whether it will be in another way, whether it will call a press conference and read, which is the responsibility of the President of the Assembly in this procedure. It is further said - the committee responsible may, before deciding on the selection of members of the council, organise a public conversation with candidates to gain insight into their ability to carry out the work of the commission's competence. So there must be a minimum of ten candidates, but there can be 20 of them. What kind of public conversation is going to take place here? Is that where you think these candidates are gonna be invited to the board meeting? They have no obligation to come. Do you think you can see in two, three or five minutes what their abilities and qualifications are? They're not athletes, so let's test them for how long they'll run 100 meters, so who's the fastest we'll pick. How is it possible to gain insight into their qualifications through a three or five - minute conversation? There is even no obligation to organise this conversation, nor is it specified here what this conversation should look like. Will it be in direct transmission, will it be in committee session, will a TV show be organised, or will they sit in the park next to the Assembly, so that everyone can attend again publicly at that moment? This member, like many others, is pointless and therefore I propose to delete this member as suggested by the SRS parliamentary group and MP Milorad Mircic. But I think it would be good here to pay attention to another fact that is related to the amendments that are submitted to this law, and I think it would be good if the minister, since he's already here, explained, because I don't think there's any point in sitting there without getting involved in his business. He's not here to explain the law to us first by reading the explanation and finally giving us the final word. You are here, Mr. Minister, to answer our specific remarks. What others may not know, they probably didn't even bother to read the government's opinion, is that the law, believe it or not, of the SPO parliamentary group was submitted to as many as 12 amendments and that all of them were accepted. It's completely, I mean, beneath the dignity of the National Assembly. I think the unremembered activity of the SPO parliamentary group under any law, and also this percentage of the success of 100% is practically something that leads us to doubt why these amendments were submitted, as they were submitted, whether they were submitted in agreement with the minister, just to say -- here's how many amendments we have submitted, we've all been accepted, we're very smart. No other law that was, and a lot of them were in the debate, showed anything like that. If I mention them, Cekovic Sanja, Ninic Milan, Blagica Kostic and Stevanović Slavisa are really like this for both this law and these areas, then it would be much better if one of them took over the role of minister and deputy minister, because in this way the minister admitted that this law, which he proposed, was full of holes, even 12 amendments were accepted, and then it would be basic and moral to resign, so he said - here these people are more quality than me, better understood in this matter, let them continue doing this job. Obviously, I must also point out that, and this says a lot about relations in the coalition and the way that the coalition works, it is obvious that the SPS parliamentary group is also preparing for a debate on the next laws that are coming into order and here, to that end, all 17 amendments are likely to have been withdrawn to the draft law on advertising by the SPS parliamentary group, i.e. all amendments, i.e. Rajko Baralic has withdrawn as many as 17 amendments, probably all amendments he has submitted to that law. Then I don't know why you bother the MPs from other parliamentary groups to prepare for the session, to read these amendments, to possibly prepare and to discuss them, and whether because of coalition agreements or because of something else you can't, it's already obvious, or to report to explain these amendments that you have submitted. Then it's much better if you can't stand those amendments. I don't know what you're trying to achieve, because it's not the first time this situation has been repeated and almost every law, before the debate begins, we get a letter from the SPS parliamentary group that they withdraw all the amendments they have submitted to that law. Sometimes, though, one or two amendments are accepted by chance, and then I guess that's good enough for them. There they say - what our representative wanted was fulfilled, our conditions were accepted and now we will vote with full heart for this law, although we swore practically until the previous day or just 10 minutes before the start of voting that there was nothing of that law, because it is unacceptable. So, I'm warning you once again, and the chairman that he's not distracting the MPs, you provide technical conditions here for the duration of the session or take a break until you provide it. You can also say that you are not capable, so, despite the efforts and the professional services, both the government and all the others that you are making here a ruling coalition that you are unable to repair this clock. That would say a lot about you, but I hope you will have an understanding and that this is something that is absolutely beneficial to all the MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group they come from.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19180	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I didn't understand what it was about. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19181	As for meddling in my business, I meddle in just as much as inner wisdom requires. You shouldn't even get too involved in your work sometimes, because it can have very negative effects. As for the comments and the acceptance of the amendments, we have accepted all amendments that are essentially improving the laws. Obviously, you didn't cooperate enough with us to give amendments that would essentially support the law, but there was no interference with accepting these amendments. Otherwise, I can tell you the next thing. In these four laws, we have adopted amendments to almost all parliamentary groups, even amendments to the SRS. If I'm not mistaken, there's Mr. Dedjanski, some of the amendments concerning wine were amendments to the SRS MPs and they were accepted. So that finding is absolutely not true. As for whether or not I've read it, I've passed more than 50 exams in my life, mostly with the best grades, and believe me, I don't have any problem with everything I have to say and not reading. When it comes to laws, which require very precise expression and regulate very precise matter, then it is better to read some things than to talk from the head, as in certain situations it is better to write things down than to remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19182	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich. Here you go. Replica. This was the answer to Mr. Sarovic's statement. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. The dignity of the National Assembly must be respected. (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) According to the Rules of Procedure. Then I'll give you my word first. I must warn all MPs who are concentrated solely on one timer. So the digital timer that's sitting over here isn't in function right now. I'm asking you to use timers that are on the side for comparisons, but anyway, the presidency's obligation is, since there are digital ones here on screens, that it keeps reminding how much time there is left, so I'm going to do it maybe often, to help you if you need it. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic, then the replica, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19183	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm using the Rules of Procedure and the possibility of telling Mr. Sarovic something about the SPS amendment. In particular, our colleague Rajko Baralić will also say why he submitted and why he withdrew those amendments, but I must say, on other matters and the claims that we are doing it pro-forme, that it is not true. The general claim here is that the Socialists are submitting amendments to withdraw them afterwards, probably with some last intention. I really can't help anyone who doesn't try to make essential remarks, suggestions, suggestions what the law can look like. I noticed that sometimes colleagues from the SRS have a systemic approach to submit all amendments with an explanation - to delete. They have one system that's wrong and every member needs to be deleted. We have another approach. The example works, I'll take the Higher Education Act. We filed twenty-one amendments, 11 were accepted, which from the government directly, which on the boards. I really cannot help others with the relationship between the content of this law and our amendments. We suggested, for example, that it be an October test period. What's more normal than the government to accept the October test deadline, if it predicted that three times one exam could be passed, and the bill says it's only twice. So, if you'd like, we've seen the mistake of both the government and the promoter, so we've submitted the amendment. We suggested that a member of the National Education Council should also be a representative of the University of Pristina, which is located in Kosovo, Mitrovica. That wasn't in the bill. It speaks of the essence of the amendment. Everyone submits amendments to the law the way he thinks it should and tries to explain it. Don't use those insinuations, leave our MP group, Mr. Sarovic, alone. We do the job the way we think we should. Some amendments are accepted, some are not accepted, but it is part of both parliamentary life and the way each parliamentary group works.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19184	Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic, a replica to the presentation of Minister Bojan Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19185	First of all, Mr. Obradovic, I don't know why you're trying to convince us from the SRS parliamentary group that your amendments are good. First, you're talking about amendments that have nothing to do with this law. Secondly, if they're already so good amendments, here's what I believe, but you don't need to convince me, you need to convince your coalition partners. Explain to the citizens of Serbia, if you have such good amendments, why are you withdrawing them? That was the essence of my objection. So why are you withdrawing the amendments if they're so good for you? Of course they're not good. Thirdly, the SRS has never submitted an amendment to the explanation "expunge". The amendment can read - this and that member are deleted, and we submit such amendments whenever it is not possible in any other way to correct the legal text, except by being eliminated from legal traffic. That, unfortunately for us, is often. These amendments, though they say -- delete that and that member, always have an explanation, and it explains why it is necessary for that member to be deleted. It's different things. Whether we do our job well or we don't, it'll be evaluated by voters. Absolutely the best proof that I was right about what I said, is that you had to talk about other things, not what my remark, which is essential, referred to. So to convince someone that your amendments are good, that they improve I don't know how many citizens' lives, and at the same time you're withdrawing 17 amendments, these are all your party's amendments that are not accepted on the next law that we need to discuss, which means only one thing, which is that your coalition partners made you withdraw these amendments, so that this debate would take as short as possible. Then let's tell that to the citizens of Serbia. If not, go out here and explain any amendment you have submitted and say - this amendment is good, the minister will not accept that amendment and we will not support this law. Do it once. Of course, you won't do it. As for the minister and his explanation, I absolutely don't care how many exams he passed in his life. It's not a condition for him to be a minister, nor does it measure how well he does his job. I repeat, you cannot convince anyone seriously that the MP's group of parties that you belong to, however much, have submitted 12 amendments and that all 12 have been accepted, that it is by chance, that no amendment has been rejected, even though by other laws they neither submit this many amendments, nor are they accepted in this way. Clearly, this is about playing the National Assembly. This is completely non-serious. In this way, I suppose you are trying to show the work of your parliamentary group to Serbian citizens in a much more serious way. (President: Time. () If you have already said that someone has not cooperated with you enough, why do you not cooperate with the members of your party, why are you burdening the National Assembly? Then it took your intra-party consultations between those wings that exist to agree before the law entered the procedure, so you could give us here a full law and that we know what we're discussing and what we're writing about. This way you let them write the amendments, accept them, they become an integral part of the bill, but then this assembly debate loses its meaning, because the law that we have received as a bill is not the one we are discussing. (President: Time. ) We did not have the opportunity to look at these amendments through the legal text in advance, when we wrote our amendments, because we did not know, like you, that these amendments would be accepted. That's the point. You are making it impossible for us to prepare properly and to know what the legal text will do, because when you accept these amendments at the cabinet session, it is already too late for us to submit new amendments to those members. Practically, we didn't get a chance to discuss the 12 members that make up this law. So it's about seriousness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19186	Please and all participants, all the responsible MPs who follow, we have no reason to repeat, we know that the amendment to Article 20, which has been submitted by SPO MPs, has not been accepted. Some amendments are accepted, some don't accept, but everyone has the right to make their own impressions. Please, let's not discuss the impressions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19187	Mr. President, you know well, as everyone here does, that part of the debate in this esteemed home always refers to those present in the hall, but absolutely to the public of Serbia. Of course, everyone talks about how he fits and talks about what they want. What is the measure of the value of an amendment? What, subjective attitude, other countries' experiences, the systemic concept of the law, the government's attitude towards this amendment? You have as many criteria as you want to measure the value of an amendment. I was very clear, our colleague Rajko Baralić will come out and explain here the amendments he proposed and withdrew, why he proposed and why he withdrew. In the second law and second case, I have shown that certain amendments have an absolute place, that they have a place in the draft law that is proposed. It's our method of working. I'm not going to use this pay phone to explain how others work and how others talk. I took this law because I am absolutely convinced that in the proposal for a law on higher education there were great proposals that were not accepted because they were not part of the system. Does anyone really think that the amendment proposed by Professor Velimir Simonovic is not a quality amendment? But it doesn't fit the system, which case it does, the government suggests. Professor, I'm sorry to use your name and work, because there have been several amendments that have not been accepted, but it is decided mostly by that bill and the solutions that most consider optimal. In this case, we have one law where counterpart Baralic has submitted amendments and he will best explain. Release the rest of the stories, because it's all part of the subjective attitude towards the law and what Serbia wants from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19188	Anyone else on this amendment? Excuse me, one second, this is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll be the replica later, and you, Mr. Baralic? After the first one came forward, I only ask on what basis, because on one side the order of reporting affects the order of exposure, depending on the basis. Mr. Baralic's by? (Rajko Baralić, from the place: Whatever you want.) Not as I wish. We're doing business here. Have you heard from the Rules of Procedure? (Rajko Baralić, from the scene: Let the boy say so.) Don't be a boy. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic, but you'll do the business, too. Then you'll get the next word, and then Miss Blagica Kostic. Here you are, Mr. Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19189	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not hear the previous time that Mr. Obradovic was exposed, and I think you, Mr. Markovic, as chairman, were obliged to say in your opinion whether or not the breach of the Rules of Procedure was done, that you would give some explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19190	I'm sorry, I'll give you back your time. Mr Obradovic did not report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but reported in the Rules of Procedure. Also, you have now reported to the Rules of Procedure or to your injuries. If it's an injury, please quote a member. I'm giving you your time back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19191	Mr. Markovicu, you are required as president of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27, among other things to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, you're gonna have to hold back a little bit, so when someone calls, wait till they're done, say what they have to say, and then comment as much as you want. So, I warn you, don't interrupt me, you have no right to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I didn't insult anyone, and I was just talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure that was done in my opinion and let's concentrate a little, if you need to read the Rules of Procedure again, but don't interrupt me. There are enough irregular conditions here in the O.R. because it doesn't work this clock that shows us how much time we have, so what you're saying is that you're gonna give me back time absolutely doesn't mean anything to me. Second, a member of 104 was injured. You hurt him when you said that serious MPs knew what was going on, what were they talking about, etc. Do you, Mr. Markovic, divide the MPs here into serious and unserious, to hear who they are if so, because in this way you are simply putting everyone sitting here in the O.R., regardless of what MP group they belong to. Mr Markovic, when you begin to violate the Rules of Procedure, and your obligation to adhere to that Rules of Procedure is greater precisely because you are the President of the National Assembly, it is greater because you are a member of the ruling coalition, then you give others the right to start breaking the Rules of Procedure and to insult other MPs, as Mr Baralic has done now, but it may not have been heard in direct transmission. So, because of your behavior after a lot of major problems, you were extremely incorrect yesterday when Milos Aligrudić, as a representative of the ruling coalition and the head of the DSS parliamentary group, gave the word, he was here saying what he was saying, threatening and insulting the MPs of the SRS and saying - there are you to keep quiet. Anyone can't tell us if we're gonna keep quiet or not. We're particularly sensitive to when someone is speaking to us from the position of power. It's just out of the question. You were obliged to sanction that behavior. Instead, you didn't let us, who called to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let us go out here for a pay phone and tell us what we have, but you took a break. Because of all this, the SRS parliamentary group left the session yesterday. Of course, none of the media published it, but Serbian citizens could see what the National Assembly looks like when there are no Serbian radicals. Then what happens is that you're just reading the amendment to the amendment, that there's no more discussion, that no one's answering. All you care about is running through it as fast as you can and going home. But we simply do not because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia we will not allow it now, we will talk about the amendments now, but once again I urge you to remember that you are the President of the National Assembly, that you are here to protect the rights of all MPs and that you are the first to strictly adhere to this Rules of Procedure, because the injury you do is much more difficult than when any other MP does.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19192	Article 104 obliges me to do what I did. Therefore, MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. People's MPs are obliged to address one another with respect. The use of offensive expressions is not permitted, nor is it allowed to give facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. In line with this article, the President of the Assembly asked that in his statement to the Rules of Procedure, he did not pay attention to the fact that it could be understood that the data from private life, who was with whom and what he negotiated independently of this session, and I drew attention to dignity, and that the MPs responsible, because I think that dignity, I once said to Mrs Stojacic, is here defending literacy. Therefore, MPs who have prepared themselves responsible for the debate do not need all MPs to prepare for the debate in particular, it is clear that, if they have read the amendments, they have seen that some amendments have been accepted, and among other things the amendment which has been discussed here on Article 20 is an amendment submitted by one parliamentary group, or three MPs, and that this amendment has not been accepted, and that it is not disputed that because someone has not been informed, it was the data of another type, that this would be discussed because it would contribute to the unworthyness of the Assembly. So I defended the dignity of the assembly. Mr. Baralic asked for a word in the Rules of Procedure. You gave up Miss Kostic? Thank you. Then the replica, Mr. Aligrudic. Excuse me, are you satisfied with the answer? No, I don't. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19193	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have done nothing beyond the authority of the Rules of Procedure to regulate the work of the National Assembly. I submitted amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and withdrew amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In my opinion, I don't go to someone else's yard, nor do I expect that kind of assistance and assistance from someone else's yard. I'm getting ready for this, like every other session, seriously. I remind you that this is an amendment and amendments that I have withdrawn to a law that is not on the agenda in particular now. There are amendments here to protect competition. Not as some members say, unfortunately and the board to which I chair, to protect against competition, far away. It's a completely different termology. In addition, when it comes to this law I have submitted amendments, it is about the law on the protection of competition and on which I have withdrawn the amendments. In different variants, in different times, with different people, I spent 100 hours preparing for this law. The regional Chamber of Commerce Nis, the Media Center with all advertisers, with media directors, with all interested MPs in the small hall of this assembly a few months ago was a complete team of Mr. Ministers, were members of the Committee on Trade and Tourism, there were over 50 media participants, advertisers, marketing directors and all other people who were interested in talking in one professional, extremely open and quality way about this law. The amendments I submitted were in the same text as some other MPs, such as Mr. Bogoljub Pejcic, such as many others. I took advantage of my right of authorized promoter, to apply to advertisers, to submit on their behalf the amendment, without any special obligation to defend the amendments. The government's estimate is whether or not they'll accept it. When that didn't happen, in cooperation with them, I withdrew amendments and it's legitimate, as it is legitimate for someone to defend their amendments. That's the full truth about that. I remind the Members of the people, there will be an opportunity, twice as many of us have been embarrassed, when I submit amendments to the Social Ageing Act, that children are born in a country without parents, conditionally said, and that they will continue to support it here and show their programming to children who, unfortunately, are sadly colloktimally referred to as orphans. It's going to be an opportunity and it's going to happen soon, and all of this other stuff, you know, can be treated like this or something. It's not like what I'm doing here is a distraction, how it's qualified to do what I did here. I have no obligation to anyone about it. I set up accounts where possible and where necessary, with the authorities of my party, with voters who chose me and I have no problem with that. (President: Time, third time.) And when you win me and my party in Chačka, I'll understand that you're doing this job better politically than I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19194	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19195	Mr. Sarovic, you seem to have misread my words completely. It's hard to come back, and I don't think it's pretty much going back to something that was in this house yesterday. When I spoke, I had no intention of offending anyone, of demeaning anyone, or of threatening anyone. I believe that's not how it should be understood. And my only intention was to warn that other MPs couldn't insult me. The way I did it, he might have acted like you did. But believe me, if that was the case, if that's how it worked to anyone, to any of the MPs, then at this point I apologize for that, if in that way, by some tone, which may not have been appropriate and adequate, to hurt anyone. So I'm ready to do it and I'm ready to do it. On the other hand, it wasn't my intention. It's not good and it's not right for me to say something that doesn't stand. So, I have no intention of demeaning anyone, nor of insulting anyone, nor of threatening anyone, nor of any reason. Simply, my speech was a reaction to another MP, who said something that seemed to me at that time as a special kind of insult to me. That's what I reacted to and that's all. So let's not go too far in what we're talking about. Because, after all, they're interesting people who have very "hard and sharp language" and very soft ears. It means he's not fit to hear anything against him, but that's why he's very easy and in a carefree manner, he likes to say any qualifications about another. So you need to know right away that I respect you very much, I really appreciate what you're doing here in the Assembly. I also appreciate your position as MP and the way you advocate the well-being and success of your SRS. So I don't have any problem with that, but I have to react when it comes to some argument and a qualification of what's being said here. I don't think we have any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19196	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic shared. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we're finally going back to the essence of what makes the job of the MPs to try to make certain things clear through the amendments in this, in my opinion, otherwise a good bill. We have submitted an amendment to Article 37, which to some extent defines the procedure for setting up a committee's advice. We think it would be good if the procedure provided for in this law were further precise, in order to avoid all possible controversial situations that so far existed in such elections. Personally, as an MP and a member of the Assembly's Information Committee, I have had great experience in forming a Radio Diffusion Council, where we have had a similar procedure and where we have encountered similar problems, and based on this experience, I believe that I have a certain legitimacy to simply suggest with my well-meaningness that you correct certain things in this article of the law. In fact, the law defines that each Proposer has an obligation to propose two candidates, with their biographical data, which is perfectly fine. However, since Article 38, among other things, states that the candidate is obliged to deliver a written statement to the authorising officer that there is no disturbance to the choice laid down by this law, which is, say, that the candidate must not be an MP, that he should not be appointed as a person, and that he is obliged to provide evidence to the applicant that he is not a person older than 65 years old and not convicted, this amendment suggests that these same things, other than the applicant, or the applicant himself, on behalf of the candidate, are obliged to pass on to the National Assembly for verification, because we consider that he is of great interest in this law, and each and the slightest procedural failure, and we cannot guarantee that the provisor will not make such a kind of failure, can challenge the formation of commissions and the selection of council members, and hence, to question the law itself. Anything that further specifies the procedure, in my opinion, is good. So, we've had experience at the Radio-Difusing Council, at the National Educational Council, and that's why I think it would be better for the procedure to be extremely precise, for these reasons. For this reason, we propose that, in paragraph 1, after a sentence which, by this proposal, the position ends, add a sentence: "With the list of proposed candidates, authorised applicants shall also approach the written statements of the candidates proposed with the evidence referred to in Article 38(2) and paragraph 3." We also propose, under Article 37, that the following sentence should be inserted in the post-point 3: "Remarks concerning the proposed candidates may be made within ten days of the date of the list being made public. "So, Article 37, paragraph 3, reads: "The President of the Assembly, at least 20 days before deciding on the election of a member of the Council, shall, in a convenient manner, publicly publish all valid lists of candidates submitted by authorised proposings, with basic biographical data on candidates. Comments concerning the proposed candidates may be submitted within 10 days of the date of the list being made to the public. "Well, that is why the President of the Assembly puts that list on the public eye, in order to give the opportunity for all those interested to submit certain objections, and I believe that this deadline should be set for those interested, because it is also a deadline within which the Assembly must elect members of the council. He, as I saw on the basis of the accepted amendment, is colleague Kostic, 60 days now. So there can be no greater deadline for one who makes remarks than the time limit the congregation has to choose his own counsel. The last remark regarding Article 37 is that a new position should be put in place after Article 4 - the committee responsible determines a united list of candidates and delivers it to the assembly. Here's why. It is simply a procedural matter, because MPs need to have one set, united list, not individual lists that each promoter will deliver. That's what we were doing when it came to radio-dip advice. So, if all these proposals were to be sent together here to the Assembly and that would define who would do it. We've had various objections about the Radio Diffusion Act and whether it's the congregation service or the board of directors. We believe that it is more comprehensive, given that all tasks are carried out by the competent assembly board, that and that thing, the assembly of the united list, shall be done by the committee responsible for all these tasks that precede all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19198	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Alexander Radosavljevic submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic. Excuse me, if I remind you of your time, because you're not in front of you, but on the side of the timer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19199	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, amendment to Article 37, which I submitted on behalf of the DS Group, is a product of the amendment that we had on Article 36. Once again, I would like to remind the promoter that the composition of the council, as proposed by the DS, must be outnumbered. The composition of the council under the bill is not good. It is obvious that it will cause some problems in the constitution itself, not to mention that serious problems can arise in operation. Why do we feel that it is necessary to increase the number of members of the council? Once again, I would like to remind myself, when the Council has five members, of the situation that there may be four members at the moment of decision-making, and in the case of an equal number of votes, the President's vote decides, which is not a good solution. It's an anti-constitutional solution. I would like to remind you, since now the Minister of Chat, of the inconsistencies of the policy implemented by the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The reminders work once again, in the advice of the Republic Broadcasting Agency, it is justifiable that this is an anti-constitutional provision. In which way the legislator wishes to justify the fact that the chairman has the right to judge, in the event of an equal number of votes, on one side or the other, and to make a valid solution. Also, there is the possibility that this number of council members could block the work of the council, which is very likely to happen, that three members would lose the status of council members, and the procedure for selecting new council members could take several months. So, in that case, in that situation, we can have a complete blockage of council work. That is why it is necessary to have more members of the council, and therefore we propose to Article 37 a different procedure and selection of members of the council, by making that number of 11, which we consider to be optimal, far more suitable, more quality than the proposal of five, make the advice work uninterrupted, and even in cases where individual elected members of the council lose the status of members of the council. This will avoid the situation, I say once again - the anti-constitutional situation that the President of the Council has the right to judge in the event of an equal number of votes at council meetings. It's something that's inadmissible. For this reason, the DS proposes, according to us, a quality and better solution than is found in the bill. In order to work more efficiently, and given that the next amendments to Articles 40 and 45 are also related and related to the amendment to Article 36, means to amend the composition of Council members and the number of Council members, I have taken this opportunity to explain these two amendments, I will not report on the amendment to Articles 40 and 45. Once again, I warn the minister that the solution under which the president of the council is authorised and has the right to judge in cases of an equal number of votes is an anti-constitutional solution. We offer a better and better solution in this case, where we will not be in a situation where, at some point in time, the Constitutional Court of Serbia may also challenge one such solution, which we have under the bill, offered by Minister Dimitrijevic. Whether I convinced him or not, I believe I am, I believe he understands the good intentions of the DS MPs. Once again, for the sake of the public, my colleague, I would like to remind you, on the basis of whether the minister and his colleagues are ready to accept our amendments, the DS will appreciate whether they will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19200	Thank you, Mr. Radosavljevic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ksenija Milivojevic submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Allow me, Mr. Markovic, to inform you, according to the Rules of Procedure today we will extend the work, due to the importance of the law and your obligations, up to 20.00 hours, of considering in particular the point on the agenda, and we will continue tomorrow with the rhythm that suits you. Thank you, Mr. Markovic, for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19201	Thank you. Before I move on to the defense of the amendment, I have to comment on some of the things that have been honoring the SRS MP group, probably from the lack of filling to separate the irony from the essence. One of the MPs, and I think the minister in this morning's exposure, said, instead of the competition law, some SRS MPs have said a law on protection against competition. That some MP of the SRS was me, and I said on purpose - a law on protection against competition, because everyone who belongs to your MP groups, and they do some work, just some of the previous laws, and I don't see that this law will prevent you from doing that, too, protecting you from competition. (President: I will give you back your time, don't be angry, as I support, Mr Markovic very rarely a language mistake, be kind and respect it. Here you go. Yes, of course. Mr. Novakovic, a former minister, and is now protected from competition and a complete Euro diesel produced in both refineries, only through his firm can be bought, and along the way there is what he was doing, the Drakulic, who goes to the borders and walks the papers. Minister, check it out. Furthermore, speaking of the law on protection against competition, that the government is doing its job, said the minister -- we interfere in our business, that you interfere in your business until the end, I'm not talking specifically about you, I'm talking about some of your colleagues, then it wouldn't happen that the company, which is called Flight Control, in six months two times a million euros that only for the purchase of passenger vehicles. It wouldn't happen if a company called Flight Control made a complete flight control system on the Bath, and hit the key, because it won't let it be used. And instead of transferring the complete equipment to Murtenica, where the new one is making, they're buying the new one and a hundred and a few million dollars or euros, I'm not going to make a mistake about the soul, but one of those two currencies is, they're investing again. It could not have happened that the director of that administration, which is under the circumstances of a nationality, would not have mentioned, in a neighbouring country, on a mountain in the neighbouring country, building our flight control centre. It couldn't have happened that at the level of Yugoslavia, along with all these centers, we were building another centre down near Podgorica, so we, like the great Yugoslavia, had two flight control centers. Now, as a SCG, we have four and we're making the fifth one down. It couldn't have happened if the director of that institution had a salary, you wouldn't believe, a million and a few thousand dinars; he didn't take the euro, he took the dinars. Although Karic takes 200 and some thousand euros a month, this million dinar salary is nothing. Let's move on to the defense of the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Rule 39, which requires that the words "not be represented by authorised proposings" be deleted, and then it would be: "The members of the council are acting independently, by their best knowledge, conscience" etc. I was surprised when the government didn't accept my amendment and I wanted to read why my amendment wasn't accepted. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment to Article 37. The bill, submitted by Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic." I turn away the argument given to Milorad Mircic, the MP of the people, to read why his amendment was rejected. He says, "The amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendment to Article 36. The bill, which was submitted by National MP Natasa Jovanovic." I also turn this explanation, where it says that, when it comes to the formation of independent and independent bodies, it is essentially a solution in the bill, as well as in some others, better and more precisely than the proposed amendment, and it certainly does not discriminate against qualified professionals, etc. Well, you're just explaining it to me. Don't explain it to me any more, explain it to the citizens of Serbia, and soon you'll have to explain it at the myths, the stands, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19202	Thank you. Mr. Krasic has the word. You have 10 minutes left as a parliamentary group for this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19203	Since we're done with the subject of tail-wrestling, let's move on to amendment to Article 39(1). The difference is that the amendment requires that something given in negative form be deleted, so it is understood that no substance is changed. But the government didn't have the courage to see that eradicating these two words virtually did not touch the essence of what the government wanted a member of 39th to achieve. When a person is chosen as a member of an organ because of personal properties, and personal property is a profession, education, reputation in an area, etc., then those persons are like experts, because there are experts chosen, as a rule independent, and they do not account for anyone, even those who have proposed them for the right place. It's just a practice. When proposed by an authorised promoter, and not the basis for proposing the professions of the proposed candidate, but the position of the promoter itself, then different solutions are possible. A classic example of this is that we have some who participate in management in the congregation, so they have a far greater number of votes based on the belongings of actions, etc. Some other solutions are possible. But when it comes to waist, then whoever suggested a particular person, that person chosen, can't affect his work. It is similar to what the Assembly proposed to a member of the High Council of Justice. I think it's a professor named Tomic. He no longer has any obligation to the National Assembly and MP groups after that. He was just proposed because he's a professor of Law School, he's in the area, he can assess and count on his profession and his knowledge to require him to do the most conscious and professional work. I'm only saying this because I objected here to some MPs, who, when some proposals fell, said what they were doing there. He's not ours. He's completely independent. By adopting this amendment, you are not losing anything, but you are confirming what was your primary commitment. However, since it is now an opportunity to discover all the shortcomings of this law, even where our amendments do not exist, I warn the Government that this law does not have precise provisions in Article 73, where the measures are laid down. One of these measures is the confiscation of objects and the ban on performing certain actions. If there is a ban on doing any work, is it temporary or permanent? If it's temporary, how long does it take - six months, a year, a month, 15 days? This law, Minister, has no provision, and its place is in transitional and final provisions, if you have provided for and prescribed that the Government adopts some sublaws, within what time is it obliged to file those sublaws? If there is, I haven't noticed, I'm really sorry, but what I've been looking at, I haven't seen any provision, and I know they belong in transitional and final provisions. It usually stands - the government is required within six months or three months of the date of entry into force of this law to adopt sublegal acts from members etc. There's no such thing here either. Let me help you out a little bit, and let me tell you where these mines of surprises are on this one -- there's no possibility that someone infraction can be punished as a percentage. When a fine is imposed, it is legally set. The amount to be deducted may be determined, but the fine for it to exist as a sanction must be in the nominal amount determined. This is where you wrote 1% to 3% and 1% to 10% can't, because our Law on Infractions doesn't allow it. The whole misdemeanor procedure that you have provided here is contrary to our Law on Infractions, and probably also to the law on future magistrates, as Batic announced. That really raises the constitutionality of this law. The possibility of a misdemeanor procedure being conducted with a ministry exists, when it comes to the tax administration, when it comes to customs, and for some other ministries there has always been an explicit provision, as well as a regulation in some law that draws it out in some material regulation of professional character, such as customs customs law, as in the Tax Administration of the Law on Procedure and Tax Administration. I think there's a big problem that won't make it possible to apply. I don't know if an amendment to article 62 has been submitted, but you have a really big problem here. The Commission, as an administrative organisation, can also bring and work, but it does not have the power to implement what it has decided. Just to remind you, it's said that the commission can go around economic operators and that there is some control and check - I know that there is some problem, rather than whether anyone can come in, if there is a need for a court decision, and there are some other problems, and for that kind of thing, inspection powers are needed. There are no such inspection powers here. I'll leave a little something for later on with these problems. So, be absolutely sure, by adopting this amendment, you don't get in the way of what you imagined when you proposed this law. There is nothing to be disturbed at all, because even this amendment says it implies that the members of the commission are independent, that they do not submit any report to their proposal, so before the promoters, according to this concept of yours, each of them can propose two candidates. I'm surprised that these MPs who have long been here, who know what it looks like, over the last year and a half, when they've been elected in a similar way by members of an organ, that you haven't provided for provisions on the dimension of the aquarium and those boxes from the glass, so whether they're mixed on the left or on the right, whether they're pulling paper with their left hand. We had a situation here that two candidates who were given alternatively and that everyone voted for both candidates. It's a funny election. They've been repeated multiple times. Come on, what's funny is it's offensive, because the first time it went down, that system of choices on the National Educational Council. Now it's becoming a real circus, and it's about an organ that has such a significant role that's prescribed by law. There were even candidates who gave up, because it is offensive for them to have minority MPs here for different interests, and some are rightly acting in a way, so it may seem like a sort of experience. So suggest some solutions that are possible, that are realistic, that are feasible. These things with more proposings, each by two candidates, if that's how you think they ensure independence, independence, those people's expertise, you're wrong. We used to point out a few examples to you, and especially about that provision when the president votes, his vote is worth a 10% vote. It's nowhere to be found. I guess the man is a man, the arm is raised, but judging by what's going on with the minister's advice, you could have put in the provisions on the phone vote. They contacted the phone and made a decision to invest 300 million in something, to be in debt, to provide a 300 million-dollar job. How? On the phone. This one was on vacation with a woman, this one was here, over there, you were in, I was in, we can, we can, we can, which is the basis, Article 14. The law on councils, and Article 14 says - the Council of Ministers is making a decision. A purely formal provision, which speaks of the form of a decision taken by the Council of Ministers and by the telephone. Throw it in if it's a practice. You could have asked your Vuk Draskovic, he voted like that, and he didn't let us know. It's getting worse now. What's the rush? Because everything is inaccurate, vague. We're just trying to get out of this nebulose that's proposed. Accept all amendments to the SRS relating to the selection of members of this committee, there are three or four amendments that make up one continent, you will not make any mistakes, it will be normal and acceptable for everyone. This kind of bid with 10, 11 candidates times two candidates and a circus during the election, then you say in the beginning you want to demean every organ, both state and quasi state body.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19204	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19205	Thank you, Mr. Markovic, but it looks like there's something else that doesn't work here except for an hour. As regards the amendment itself to Article 40, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group and which is proposed to delete the position of the 2nd member, it is as Mr Krasic said in the previous presentation of a comprehensive SRS concept relating to this choice, and this logic is being implemented by Articles 36, 37, 39, these are the amendments that we have submitted and which we are trying to edit in a much better and more concrete way this matter that regulates the choice of members of the council. We have also had the opportunity to see how the choice already works when it's conceived this way when selecting some other members of another council and it's clear to all of you that it doesn't work. We had later and some changes to those laws and you definitely admitted that this concept was not good, so it's not clear why you're insisting again in this way of selecting members of the council and whether it's necessary to burn yourself in the same way in every law, and then within three or four months we have here on the agenda changes and additions of this law, and then you're doing the law the way we're telling you now. However, then they may submit amendments to the SPO parliamentary group, so it will be good amendments, but I think it's really better if you do it now and that simply, if you accept amendments to the SRS, in a way we put this law out of the agenda, we can pass a good law and we can commit ourselves to someone else. The position of the 2nd member of the 40th set out again the different duration of the term of office of the members of the council and I guess an undecided manner, as it is not yet specified in detail how this vote will be carried out. Once again, we will have a situation where the president of the National Assembly will choose, muddle around in a box and extract, in this way decide whether someone who has been elected from the ranks of experts will have a term of office for three years or have a term of office for five years, and I suppose you understand that he is playing with people and with the reputation of some people, whom you say are top experts, should not be acceptable. We're gonna have a little bit of a circus here. Non-stop will go to propose these councils, the process that lasts half a year, so if there are no results, then the government will propose, so the National Assembly president will choose who will have what. So let us do it right away in a normal and civilized way, to know who is elected, who is the author, what is the mandate in which it is chosen, and that these people simply and that advice can have a certain time in which they will work in peace, without some influence on the part, that they can have some independence in work, and not give advice every few months of earthquakes by choice, by proposing new members. We just don't know how they're gonna work. When someone's term expires, if they'll have a quorum, they won't have a quorum, etc. If we go back to Article 38, you determine who can't be a member of the council. Of course it's not popular and it doesn't need to work that way in the law, it doesn't need to be defined in a negative way who can't, you better define who can, and that's what's normal and what's desirable in legal projects in other countries. Of course, it used to be with us, but since we don't know who's writing the laws, who's proposing them, it's no wonder the situation is like this. First of all, you said a member of the council couldn't be a person over 65. I'd like the minister to come out here and explain why you in this way don't give in to people who have more than 65 years of life. I think this is even contrary to the laws of the other Republic of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and how it is possible for someone over 65 to have a general right to vote, so he can choose, he can be elected to the highest state office, so he can be an MP, he can be a minister, he can be Prime Minister, he can be the President of the Republic, and he can't be a member of the council. So this concept of yours simply doesn't make any sense here. Why can't a 65-year-old be a member of the council, if you already have a basic criterion, and should be, expertise in a particular area. Why do you deprive yourself of a large number of experts in this way, because you will admit that a large number of people who are more than 65 years old still have fully preserved intellectual capacity, that they can deal with such things, have a great life experience accumulated over the previous years of life. I don't know why you'd mind if someone who can, I repeat, performs the most state functions couldn't be a member of the council, which is still a function that's a little less important than the Prime Minister, the Republic or the National Assembly. Furthermore, in Article 38(1), point 7) you say that, in addition to being a member of the council of persons convicted of certain crimes, of corruption, of fraud, of acts that make him unworthy, that is fine, they cannot be members of a council or persons who are legally sentenced to prison for more than six months. Gentlemen, that's completely ridiculous. So, if he was convicted 20 or 30 years ago of a traffic violation for seven months, for example, Minister Jocic, he has been convicted of serious theft, for a serious crime, he can be a minister, and he cannot be a member of the council of someone convicted of a traffic violation. So it's a completely inappropriate concept. Again, you have double standards, one when it comes to you and the government, and others when it comes to the election of experts from a particular area who are convicted of something that in no way makes them unworthy to perform a certain function. Furthermore, that the concept of the law and the text itself, the way this is written, is wrong, tells us, and Article 39, because you say that members of the council do not represent authorised proposings, but perform their duty on their own. It is a much better formulation that we have proposed through the amendment, where it is said that members of the council perform their duties on their own. You said everything that way. The text of the law should be as short as possible and as precise as possible. You have a bunch of formulations here where you say "it could be" or "it might be". It just doesn't have to and shouldn't have room in the law, because that way you don't determine anything. When you give a completely broad formulation that it can and doesn't have to, then you don't have to stress that then something can or doesn't have to be. If you've given the opportunity, that's enough. If you don't want that possibility to be used, then don't even prescribe the law, instead of what you do all the time, you say it won't be used, but we're giving it a chance. Then why do you even give such an opportunity? Furthermore, article 41 says the mandate of a member of the council ceases: during the time he was elected, with resolution, with death. It was supposed to provide for the term of office to cease and resign. That is why you have a problem with Article 42, where you say that the Assembly, on a proposal from the council or 20 MPs, resolves a member of the council, and point 7) says "if a member of the council resigns in writing". Gentlemen, that means how much this communist spirit in you is still alive, how strong it is, how much you're still thinking in the way of some past times, so you, when someone resigns, would put it on the agenda here, so someone who resigned from the Parliament would be able to resolve it. That's ridiculous. When someone resigns, that's the end. The Assembly does not need to consider whether the resignation has been made for these or those reasons. One moment when he arrives at our resignation, we have nothing to discuss anymore. What kind of decision can the congregation make when someone resigns? We want to discuss here for five hours and then say we don't accept your resignation, you're going to work, you're going to be a member of the council, and you can resist as much as you want, you can be sick as you want, you can be busy as you want, you can't be, or we can solve you, or there's another way to die. No, we're not. We're not getting rid of you, and we're done. So this is completely pointless, from Article 36 through Articles 37, 39, 40, 41 and 42, everything you've done and everything you've written is completely wrong. I don't believe anyone can make any remarks, a quality, a rational, essential reference to these amendments filed by the SRS. I think it's much better to regulate this in a precise way, in a European way, Euro-Atlantic, however you like, if that makes it easier for you to accept these amendments. Here, I'll also say that these amendments are rapidly bringing us closer to Europe. I think they'll stop us for too much speed. So, once again, I urge you to accept these amendments and I think we will be meeting in Europe from the next morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19206	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Alexander Radosavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Igor Becic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as I said in the principle debate, I expected a much better law that really defines this area, especially when it comes to protecting competition. It seems to me that the legislator did not have that fundamental purpose in mind, which is that protecting competition protects the end-user, not market players. Article 44, which Mr Becic has submitted to the amendment, concerns the way and work of the council and the Commission to monitor the work of market participants, and under what conditions various participants make contracts, obtain goods or provide services. In a member, it seems to me, 35 or 33, is redefining who these members of the council are. We have an example of who's proposing. Let's just say, he's proposing an attorney's chamber. What does the Bar Association have to do with the protection of competition? It suggests the Scientific Society of Economists. I agree, people are of the profession, but I'm asking a question, have those who will be working on this council ever been to a single competition? The government of the Republic of Serbia often makes its own monopoly. How is she going to propose someone to that council? Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, too. So, the whole concept of the law is completely wrong and it's not intended to protect the consumer, but rather, as a consequence, we can also have a rise in prices and inflation. Now, on a simple case, I'm going to point that out. In Article 7. Law proposal, title - Acts to prevent, restrict or disrupt competition, and now the notion of what is a distortion of competition, which says in Article 4, "application of unequal operating conditions in the same business with different market participants and thereby putting market participants in a more unfavourable position than competitors". When someone reads and thinks, very little, they say, it's quite all right, but if someone goes into the matter of what the market is and what a game is on the market, then they can conclude that this is pure nonsense. If a new manufacturer or new product appears on the market, I am giving you an example from professional experience, at which point all market participants are fully equated because the goal is to win the market. One number of participants accepts a new manufacturer or new product. The goal is to acquire a habit with the last consumer, meaning that the most common customer uses the product. In this chain of producers, wholesale sales, retail sales, everyone participates and invests frequently and financially to acquire the market. What's the reason? Normally, by investing his own resources, he wants that money to fertilize. How? By creating a market for more favourable conditions from suppliers than other competitors on the market, because it was made by the market to work on it. It's called a competition. What is this law doing? It prevents a new producer, prevents a new product, prevents real competition from working on the market, which is ruthless. Who are you protecting? You protect the incompetent and no one else. This law protects incompetent market participants, nothing else. There's nothing else. You're talking about European integration. There's no mercy there. Who isn't able to disappear. Will we be unable to protect? Who's gonna pay for that? The last consumer, because no one will have the motive to make their full contribution in terms of getting more favourable conditions, to get a more favourable price and at a more favourable price, thanks to its abilities, places goods on the market, but it will mean, it will cost 100 dinars, I can only buy it for 100 dinars, my margin is 20%, plus VAT, and that's the price, and the result is inflation, nothing but inflation. The market only protects itself from competition. The market only makes competition. The goal is to sell as much goods as possible, to get and sell them. Who benefits from that? Consumer. Who do you work for? For incompetent traders or for Serbian citizens who are the last consumers in a row? You have made advice and have any of these institutions, except for the Scientific Society of Economists, but they have no life and professional experience from that area, is any of them on the market? They're gonna get these acts, they're gonna vote there. Based on this? Based on this. This is no good. Monopoly is the government of the Republic of Serbia. You want me to tell you what monopolies you've made? Monopoly on oil imports and oil derivatives. Not everyone can import oil derivatives. I don't care why, if you're not able to send customs, if you're not in control of customs enough, if you're afraid of smuggling, etc. You've made a monopoly. The benefit of this is the oil industry of Serbia, resulting in fuel shortages in June and July. It's a monopoly. Serbia's oil industry will not deliver oil derivatives because it does not fit the price, the ministry does not allow it to raise the price because Dinkic has messed up with value added tax and excise duties. What's the consequence? You don't let other people import fuel because you're afraid they're gonna smuggle it. It's your inability to control the market. You want to talk about other monopolies? Let's talk about the tobacco. The tobacco law has limited how much an importer can be. Is that a monopoly? Yes, it is. So five or six, two or three, it doesn't matter how much, they can just import. It's a real monopoly. You want to talk about electricity and who's got a monopoly here? Who leased power lines around Serbia? So, nothing more than electricity can be imported into Serbia, nor can it be exported from Serbia until Mr. Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic are asked. Did they rob the state for 500 million euros? They did. Did the board of inquiry prove that? Yes, it is. Why didn't you arrest them? Now you're doing something like this here. It's a shame, at least it's a shame. My suggestion, gentlemen of the ministry, is to withdraw this law, to make some better. I agree that we need to regulate this kind of matter, but not in this way. There's not what's most important in the market, there's no game, he's preventing the game. And Darwin's theory says that only the most capable can survive in evolution. Why is that not true in a market game to make the most able to survive on the market, it has nothing to do with the monopoly. The greatest damage to this law will be the last consumer only. Participants in the competition will have no motive to sell goods to him at more favourable prices.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19208	Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19209	If we look at the Constitution and some laws that are indisputable of quality, then when someone resigns, it's just the end of the term. This is the first law in which a written resignation is a condition to be resolved. We've got it all. This was probably done in a hurry, just to get your eyes covered and get it going. It just surprises me, and I get the impression that the government doesn't actually read the stenograms from the National Assembly and that as the law passes in the National Assembly, the Government forgets about the law. If the government had at least made a glimpse of what she had done, how it is applied, what is and where it is written, then she could have noticed that what was stated in Article 44 of the Assembly had been defeated several times. And because of those losses, we changed the Radio-Difusion Act three times in a year and a half. Why did we change? To avoid that draw. I get the impression that this, although November 2004 was the first variant, you haven't changed at all, this is an out-of-date variant. In the meantime, life happened. You are talking to article 44 about some procedure, authorized proposings within three months of the day of the call being submitted to the Assembly for a proposal from the candidates. It is clear to you that we have submitted amendments to the entire area here, which is the composition and selection of the council and beyond, because we do not seem to agree conceptually because we believe that the members of this committee should propose a government. You represent the concept that there are more authorised proposings and our concept does not fit this formulated Article 44. It's a bill of law. You'll see, we've proved here, for the past year and a half, that whenever something like this is proposed about the selection and composition of an organ, in this way the bill promoter unmistakably makes us aware that he doesn't really want this, because if he really wanted it to be formed and that this competition committee is starting to work, he'd probably go to a different solution. I have to remove one great delusion from this concept that has existed for several years, where, in a similar way, we suggest the formation, selection and composition of these organs. From the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, there is no interference, as Article 90. The constitution, I think, was point 5, stipulates that the government is setting up and resolving the officials. The government enforces the law, the choice of a person or the establishment of a working relationship is law enforcement. So, no interference from the view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia would have been if you had prescribed that the government chooses the president and members of this competition protection committee. But here it has simply become a fashion to go with some breadth, where the government behaves in a non-governmental way, includes everything and everything as official promoters and thus devalues power, devalues laws, and nothing positive can come out of this. Does anyone want to convince us that if the government were to propose those in charge of the government to run this, they wouldn't talk to the people in the chamber, from college, from the economy, from some institute. Well, the government would probably ask around, and who are the experts who understand in this area? Who understands theoretically in this area, who practically, who has some experience, who has some knowledge, some contacts with some foreign organizations dealing with this problem. Probably, well, by the logic of things, I guess the government would be asking around to provide the most professional people for this job. And now we have a guarantee for the profession of five authorised promoters who would practically bid. Of course, since this member does not fit our concept, we have proposed an amendment to delete Article 44.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19210	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic shared. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 45th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Radosavljevic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. We'll be working orientatively until this debate is over and we'll take a break. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19211	The honourable MPs, as you have seen, have submitted a large number of amendments to the election, composition and decision-making of the council. On behalf of the SRS and I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a competition law, by proposing that Article 3 be put into effect 45. The bill is deleted. I will quote it as saying, "In the event of an equal vote-sharing, the vote of the President of the Council decides." Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about an anti-candidate, anti-constitutional discriminatory and scandalous attitude 3. Mr. Minister, the question is, why would the President's voice weigh more than the other members of the council? That's why there's one rule of law, I don't know if you're a lawyer, who prescribes an odd composition of the collective body, so that there's always a majority in the decision-making process, not that the voice of one member has priority and greater legal power. It is typically against the constitution, against the law, the discriminatory solution, and for these reasons, rightly, we are submitting this amendment. I think you'll understand, and you'll adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19212	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19213	Some act by this commission can prescribe that the vote is done by secret means. How are you going to apply the position of the third member? Very simple and simple, a secret vote, five members cannot agree, interests are divided and they say, let's vote in secret. They take ballots, everyone hides and circles, gets brought here. There were four of them, and the fifth one was flying to Budva. The score is two to two. How are you going to apply the provision that the President's vote has little greater value? That's impossible. This is really offensive. One rule, one of the principles of electoral law, is the same value of each vote. No man born whose voice is worth more than another man. This is contrary to logic, Christianity, morality. Why you put this on me is not clear at all. So is it possible that there will be so many guesses? I'm surprised you didn't insert this phone or vote online. This shouldn't stand in our law. If you wanted to form an organ to always make sure that there is a majority in all variations, then you predict an odd composition of the organs, then its quorum for work, etc. It allows most people to always be seen. If you come to a decision through a different evaluation of the vote of the members of the body, then you ask the question - well, are these people who are in the organ equal? Are they equal? It turns out that the president is not the first among the equals but a little more equal than the others. Throw this out. Please withdraw this bill. This, Mr. Dimitrievich, has fooled you. If you'd read this with a little more attention, I'm sure you wouldn't suggest this on the agenda. I'm sure. Be assured someone cheated on you. Someone cheated on you. This is a bad bill. I have no doubt that in a political tendency to provide for the majority and vote this out, but believe me, you'll have a lot more headaches than any use. If you think we with this "paper" can run somewhere that we've met some conditions, then I have to tell you that you're wrong. Because we're going to have damages from such a bill. We've tried to point out where we're conceptually different, where we think and in what direction this fight against monopolies should go in general and how competition should be encouraged, what everything needs to be done. We didn't want to go into detail, so that all this stuff we did today wouldn't have been misunderstood. We have shown you that this law is inadmissible, and if you insist on applying this law, it will appear to you as a boomerang of all kinds of chaos. I'm just drawing attention to those provisions on the concentration and consent of the commission that should be given in this way. Most market participants will charge this particular commission. Because some will inevitably be stretched out. But these provisions devalue some of the laws that exist in our country, and above all, the Business Society Act, securities of value, the financial market, and not to order other regulations that promote the freedom of all economic operators. If you think that the Competition Protection Commission should be a Securities Committee, in a way, that it has some similarity, then these concentration provisions, which concern property matters and some status ones, might be in the jurisdiction of the Securities Commission. But this is the wrong concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19214	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19215	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 45 regulates the vote of the Council. For example, Article 36 says who is the authorising officer, these are the Association of Lawmakers of Serbia, and I will now single out only two, and the Law Chamber of Serbia. The SRS proposal is that this law is withdrawn from the procedure, because not only does it not have its own purpose, but it does not comply with other regulations. Imagine now, Mr. Minister, you represent the Government here, if anyone, and someone from the Association of Serbian Lawyers and the Law Chamber of Serbia will have to read this law, because they are likely to be a member of this council, so look at Article 74, which says, "The limitations of the prosecution for violations have been committed over five years since the day of the violation". Excessive member. It's regulated by the Law of Infractions, Mr. Minister, and there's a relative obsolescence of the offense for a year, absolute - two years. Take, before you accept to be an authorised representative of the promoters, gather your assistants, deputies, professional associates, let them read this law well, so that it is not by chance that a member who is in collegiate with some already applicable legal regulations, who have a substance that is regulated when an infringement or some other provision is outdated in general, when something is particularly regulated by some special legal proposal, not like this from the sky and in the ribs, it is said - five years. For many crimes, it's not five years, let alone a violation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19216	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19217	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 48 states that the President and members of the council are entitled to a cash compensation for their work in the council. The second is said: "The criteria for determining the amount of compensation are governed by the statute of salary of the president, i.e. the Supreme Court of Serbia's judge." The amendment, which the Social Democratic Party submitted to this Article 48. The bill proposes to amend Section 2 and to read: "A decision on the level of compensation for the work of the president and members of the council shall be adopted by the Assembly, on the proposal of the Assembly Committee in charge of financial affairs". What did we essentially want to achieve? In laws, in which the Assembly chooses independent committees, committees and other bodies, there is great charm in determining the amount of work compensation in such bodies. We believe that it would be quite justified for the future Assembly Committee, responsible for financial affairs, and on the basis of comparative analysis, to establish a proposal for a decision for the National Assembly. So it wasn't our idea to question in any way the amount of compensation for the members of this council, which we are now talking about, or any other way, but to introduce some order. Since the Assembly is selecting members of this council and other independent bodies that have been and will still be through various legal projects here in the Assembly, we propose that one systematization and order be introduced. As an example, I'll let you know how it's been so far. Members of the Radiodifuge Agency Council receive compensation at the height of the Supreme Court's salary. Members of the Management Board of the Telecommunications Agency on the same principle, as well as the Trustee on the availability of public information. In the case of the Ombudsman, i.e. the guardian of the citizens, the salary shall be formed on the basis of the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court and the deputies of the Ombudsman on the basis of the salary of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In the case of members of the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the exercise of public pay functions, it is formed at the height of the pay of the MP, now completely different. With a member of the National Education Council, the salary is determined by the National Assembly, although the law does not define who does so in the National Assembly. So there's a great charm, like I said. Once again, given that the Assembly is choosing these people, I think that the board responsible for the financial affairs should define the salary of members and presidents, any committee that it is, or advice, and so on in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19218	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would in principle agree with these remarks made by Mrs Nestorovic. But what's important, I really need to remind you that all of these laws, which she spoke about, which have just led to this charmingness in the way of determining compensation for working in these different bodies, councils, commissions, agencies and all the other forms of organization that you've made in the previous period, is hers, not to say, MP group, but this group of MPs, which was chosen in the way she was elected, voted and supported these laws. Of course, it's better, as Tomislav Nikolic once said, later on than nothing. It is good that in this way, however, such a solution as is proposed by such a law is criticised. I must also note the second fact that when you determine that someone will have a salary, i.e. compensation for work as much as the President of the Supreme Court, that the members of the council will have a salary as the Supreme Court, you should bear in mind that there is still a case under which a judge, i.e. the President of the Supreme Court, is incomparably longer than the case under which a member, i.e. the President of this Council, comes into office. In order for someone to become Supreme Court President, he has to finish law school, he has to be an intern for a certain number of years, and then he has to be elected a few years, which can be extended to five, 10, to be an expert associate, and then only then he's elected judge in the first degree, and then he has to be elected district court judge, and then only then, after a long number of years, as top-notch and crown careers, someone can be elected judge, not to speak of the position of Supreme Court President. Not only did you fully devalue the functions of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Constitutional Court by political action, by determining and making political decisions, as it was done precisely during your rule, but through this law and through many other laws you devalue and the election procedure for the Supreme Court president and at all for the Supreme Court judge. I think this is wrong, however, you should consider that only a certain and limited number of people in the country, especially people who have passed, to say the long and lasting process of examining their values, such as the Supreme Court judges, can be valued this way. It is absolutely wrong for someone, for whom a commission will in some way, or the assembly majority, say, he is a respected expert in a particular field and give him all the rights and benefits that you will give to the President of the Supreme Court who, you will admit, is still doing an extremely important job. For all this I invite you to get serious and be careful how you rank someone who should be a member of the council. I don't think that's enough in this way for you to even these people with the President and the Supreme Court judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19220	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Replica MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, although I did not realize that he mentioned you, but that you were misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19221	Dear colleague Sarovic, I simply have to respond and advise you - we are now an opposition and we have to cooperate. If any proposal is smart enough, in your opinion, and I would say from your discussion that it is smart what we suggested, just agree and commend, you don't have to be maligned. It's not a matter of second-guessing. We have proposed in every law that implies the education of such bodies and commissions that the amount of compensation should be determined by the Finance Committee, or the Assembly, because the Assembly and elects those members. However, it certainly wasn't enough reason to, although not accepted, tear down one concept, a legal project, if you consider it to be a major part of it okay. So you can't break one law just because you didn't agree on how to define salaries for members of the council that this law means, so it's not about post-wise intelligence, it's about constructiveity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19222	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19223	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, nothing was, of course, understatemental about what I said. I have just shown in a concrete way that we in the SRS are not assessing the proposal according to who it comes from. I just commended and said, "Here in this case, you're right." Secondly, I didn't mention your name or your last name, and I didn't mention the party, for the simple and simple reason why I couldn't really remember which party you were in right now and what your party was called. You, I remind you, entered this assembly in a single list very quickly, and then you joined Nebojsa Covic, who absolutely did not get any citizens' trust, because the citizens said they did not want to see him or listen to him. It's a bit strange that your party's concept as large, as parliamentary, as a party that had ministers at both federal and republican levels, has poured into this huge river made up of Covic's party, which had neither MPs nor minister nor anything else. Simply, you can't cheat on Serbian citizens this way and say, we're the opposition now, we're the government now, we're criticising now, we're not criticizing. You can't change your mind about laws from day to day. You are still today, no matter what you claim to be an opposition now, and I don't think you know where you are by yourself until the end, since most of the members have remained in power and said that they are not interested in this party, which clearly showed that you never had a political party, but that this is an ordinary interest group, you must bear political responsibility for your vote before you were, as you say now, the opposition. So, you must be bound by the opinions that you have made under the previous laws and what you are saying now, that the solutions you voted for in the earlier period are not good, and that is exactly what is wrong and which may be called malignancy, but to the citizens of Serbia, and not to the MPs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19224	Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic. I warn you that future MPs do not call upon the Rules of Procedure to insult the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19225	I don't tend to insult anyone, but I'm talking about facts, and I'll always stand behind everything I've raised my hand for. I have to remind you, Mr. Sarovic, I'm from the Social Democratic Party and you should know that as an MP. You know very well, and don't give me any political lectures here about position, opposition and similar definitions, I know very well, and I don't blame any of you for not knowing it. As far as everything we've voted for, we stand behind it. We are one of the few parties, while it belonged to the ruling Corps, invested a large part of the amendment because we felt that everything could be fixed and we consider where everyone thinks it is, in fact no one thinks anything. It's a whole new approach by the government to maybe some time when you were the government. Times change, so they change times when you have one MP, and now you have 84. The Social Democratic Party has two now, so one minute it's going to have a proportionally higher than you used to have one, and now you have 84. It'll be like that, and it's also inevitable. As for those people who stayed in power and didn't follow the SDP policy, that's legitimate, everyone chooses between the chair and the principle. The political field is wide, as was the broad and political field when Mr. Glamochanin was leaving the SRS, but we had the opportunity to see some footage there as he was getting some money for it. So don't call the people who decided to stay with the ruling coalition. The SDP went into opposition, but there were no such arrangements.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19226	Thank you. Since there is no reason to call from the pay phone how many members of parliament belong to any parliamentary group, and who belongs to independent MPs or what the parties are called, the chairman always reads the exact data at the beginning and is therefore timed. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Sarovic asked for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19227	Article 104 has been injured. If you're already talking about someone getting money to leave the SRS, that's true. But, Mrs. Nestorovic, we said that when it happened. Not only that, we filed a criminal case against that man who did it. We shut him out of the party and filed criminal charges against him. Unlike us, where possibly some of us who represent the weeds, and they're all over the place, getting money to leave the party, there are some cases that some of them have been getting money to get into some parties. But that was never the case with the SRS. Secondly, this is where you talked about access to power. It is true that the SRS and your party, and you say it is now called the Social Democratic Party, have a different approach to power. Yes, we approach the authorities by going to the elections, and winning the citizens' trust, and then forming power, and you approach completely different. You never went out to the election. The Social Democratic Party, the Union, one way or another, as it was called, you've had enough and the president, there's no one who hasn't changed there. You were in the coalition with Koraq, so you threw him out, then with Covic, then with Karic, there is virtually no one you were with. You change your political course every three months. What distinguishes us is that you are not able to go to elections and say, our party advocates it and that, that citizens give you a certain trust and that then as much as you have MPs you participate in power. The biggest evil for Serbia's administration is political parties that go through political life from election to election, have absolutely no voting body, and unfortunately come to very important positions in society, are in a position to decide on certain flows that should not be decided at all, and then there are a number of problems. Fortunately, at least now as far as your party is concerned, the situation has been partially cleared up. I hope that in the next election, no political party, which has some foothold in the electoral body, will allow their lists, such as blind passengers, to pass through some who do not have any confidence in the citizens. I would also like to hear from G17 plus, DSS, so those who have the capacity to win a number of voters, which are the reasons that motivate them to receive "blind travelers" on their list, who can't bring them anything by the number of votes. Once we clear these things up, the situation in Serbia will be much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19228	The assembly will not decide the pre-election coalitions, please, the rules of law are clear. Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic. I ask that both the tone and the content end this part of the debate, in order to complete the debate on the amendments. Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19229	Mr. Chairman, I sincerely hope that my behaviour so far has not earned me, even by insinuation, to suggest that I could behave differently. I don't want to continue this debate. As far as I'm concerned, I'm fully aware that both time and capacity are changing. What the SDP is in the Assembly is due to the fact that we have coalition potential, unlike you of the SRS. You've never had that coalition potential before. We went out in coalitions, mostly in broad coalitions and these coalitions were mostly supported by Serbian citizens. You were the opposition. I honestly think that's how it's gonna be in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19230	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Alexander Radosavljevic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19231	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 50. The bill defines the financing of the commission. Here, the proposer left a provision saying that funds for the establishment and first year of work of the commission are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The proposed law considers that it is not the best regulated way to finance the commission, especially if we bear in mind what jurisdiction and what jobs are in the next period, from the moment of entry into force of this law and the formation of the commission, before the Commission. The Competition Protection Commission will only be financed from the budget in the first year. The question of its continued existence is raised if funds are no longer provided for in the budget after the first year, i.e. funds will not be provided, according to the letter of the Bill. The squirrel Radeta, she throws out of the O.R., but she doesn't understand. We can assume that. So whether what the minister said -- some means will be provided -- that's not clearly defined. The funds for the establishment and first year of work of the Commission shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The experience so far shows how long it took for the commissions to come to life. Also, the question arises whether these funds will be sufficient. I say once again, something that we think is a better solution, especially if we keep in mind that this is a new institute, a new institution, especially if we have in mind the importance of the work it should be dealing with, a year is something that is not good. I can tell why one such solution. Because relations within the government and relations between resolution ministers towards the finance minister are also pretty bad. This clearly shows a lack of communication and a lack of readiness for the finance minister to meet certain requirements that are fully justified. I would not be surprised and I am not surprised at the information we had on the financing and construction of the cable car in Kopalnik that the resolute minister of trade and tourism almost knew from which funds the facility had invested, but we therefore had the opportunity to see ministers from different restaurants who had nothing to do with the resort covering Mr Dimitrijevic, that they had appeared there and explained to the public, that they had completed an important and significant facility and that it contributed to the development of tourism in Serbia. We agree, but it was certainly a question of whether it was foreseen in the Republic of Serbia's budget, whether it was provided for in the funds the ministry had or was a matter of goodwill for the finance minister. We therefore believe that if we want to have one quality commission that will function smoothly, which in at least the next three years, as we want to achieve with the amendment, can function uninterruptedly, then the budget will have to provide for funding for it. Also, funding the commission through donations can directly affect its work independence. This is what we wanted to avoid with this amendment, although the law explicitly states that economic operators cannot be donors, it leaves room for the donation of businesses to be hidden. It can be executed through NGOs. This amendment excludes funding through donations, and in this respect it proposes erasure of Article 3. Once again, I urge the minister to accept these amendments. As far as the DS's stance is concerned, we will vote out loud and clear, but if amendments that do much better correct the proposed text of the law are accepted, the DS will be willing to vote. But I see that there is no understanding and I see that the minister has no willingness or desire to accept the amendments proposed by the DS, and that makes a logical conclusion that we will refer to the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19232	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to the 51st amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted together to the 70th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that Article 70a be added after article 70a. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic submitted to the 75th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic submitted together to the 75th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal's representative, Prof. Dr. Bojan Dimitrijevic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Services, want the final word? Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19233	A few things that might have deserved a little comment here. For example, there was one thing about this amendment whether 11 or 5 members of the commission. At first glance, it turns out it's harder to buy 11 members than five. It seems to me that if you expand the number of members then you can turn out to have more people who are prone to some kind of informal pressure than if the number of people is smaller. That's the kind of thing you can talk about right now. What's the bigger problem here is that there would be a question of quorum. If someone wants to obstruct the work of a commission numbering 11 members, then it's much easier not to achieve a quorum in that case, but if the number of committee members is five, because then the quorum requires all three people. There are two things that, on some issues related to the way the commission is formed, should be commented. What is the specificity of this law? It is under the glass of the EU and almost most of the members of this law are made under similar laws, directives or regulations from the EU. There was almost no one in the bloc of these laws that the EU was as interested in as much as it was in this law, where the adoption of this law is one of the direct conditions for the continuation of Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations. Therefore, many of the provisions, especially those related to the way the commission is elected, would not be absolutely acceptable to the EU. I want to be honest here that I too, in the first version of the law, was inclined to be the government that would propose all the members, because it seems to me that this solution was both more practical and more operational, however you wish, but it would not have gone from the European Commission's point of view. This is the thing we had to accept in this way, as the country's priority is to join the EU older than these other reserves we have according to the way the commission is working. Once again, the truth needs to be told that the European Commission has not invented these things, but has come as a result of years of practice, which has shown that an independent body formed in this way can best respond to the interests that have created it. However, I say again, we have tried to install in some provisions those members who have gone to meet the fact that this deadline for forming a commission is not infinite and that, unless those two months are used, the government can be the one to propose members of the commission. When the commission, or council, is formed, it is fully independent of the promoter, and it is explicitly written in the law, but is obliged to submit the report to the National Assembly. In this way, however, we wanted to bind the responsibility of the members of the committee for the National Assembly. As for the salaries to be received by members of the council, the salary is here in the function of incompetence. This is the second specificity of individual solutions, which is also related to the President's vote, i.e. the chairman's commission. What is the problem with these commissions that have very specific tasks? The problem is that there can be workblocks, because there are a number of stakeholders, and there are as many in Serbia as you like, very interested in blocking the work of this commission in any way possible. One way to block this commission's work is, for example, an infinitely long period of time to propose members of the council. Another way could be to, say, constantly have an even number of members and that the commission cannot possibly make the right decision. Since five are members of the commission, the number four is even in number five, which is a number larger than three, it is possible that each time there are four members of the commission and that the commission cannot decide. There are many European countries where there is a solution to then deciding on the vote of the president, the chairman or vice president. It's probably never going to be used, because just because it's built in, it eliminates any attempt at obstruction. Since the commission really needs to fight a number of lobbies, which will in any way seek to block its work, the addition of one such member, which has been affected by many EU countries, was fully justified. As for some objections about the offence, whether it is by percentage of the annual income, etc., the law is fully in line with the Law on Infringements and with all other laws that regulate breaking matter, so there is no problem. One more thing about this last thing that MP Radosavljevic said. In Article 51, you saw there, with this amendment that we accepted, we said if the Commission's revenues weren't enough, additional funding from the budget could be provided. That's what I pointed out in the opening statement. So there is no concern that the commission will block its work because there are no budget funds. But there's one more thing I have to be honest with you, and it's all about donations. When you think about it, there's probably a danger of hidden donations from certain stakeholders, that's what I want to say here. This thing at this stage, since it is impossible to intervene differently on it now, will remain likely either for the conscience of the members of the commission in the first phase, and in the second phase we will likely intervene with appropriate improvements. At this point, it's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19234	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrievich, and thank you for installing the Ruler's Council principle, so there's no reason to defend it with Europe, it's Serbian. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now we'll have a break by 15.00 hours. At 15.00 hours we continue the debate in detail of the Advertising Act and we will consider that point of the agenda, so we are extending the working time for those who have not heard, to 20.00 hours. [[After break – 15,05]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing our afternoon work today's session. I repeat again, today we will be working until 20.00 hours. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTHORITY LAW One technical notice, since there were jokes during the afternoon. So, a timer that is digital and located across the street tried to put the professional service into use, since it mostly uses speakers to control how much time they have left. I repeat the request once again, I know that it is sometimes a problem for younger people, as we heard during the afternoon, but we can explain how it is used. It's these timers on the side. I'll repeat it quickly, don't take it any way to load it during exposure, if I repeat how much time there is left, because there are digital time frames in front of the screen. We have a promise to make it easier for everyone, after 20.00 hours, the professional service will try to fix this schedule in detail, to make it easier for us to work. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Sanja Čeković, Milan Ninić, Blagica Kostić, Staniša Stevanović, Meko Omerović, Ljiljana Nestorović, Slobodan Zivkucin, Marko Đurišić, Milan Stanimirović, Milan Vjevinović, Miljko Čevrović, Zlatan Jovanovic, Stefan Zankovic, Tomislav Penzić, Darko Glisic, Vojislav Milajić, Milan Stević, Momir Marković, Petar Jojić, Milovan Radovanović, Bozidar Koprivica, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Veroljub Arsić, Zoran Krasić, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Milorad Mirić, Gordjana Gajic, Jovan Daja, Vjerica Radeto Radet, Ljubir Kragović, Milomir Posurić, Tihomir Krasic, Tihomir Krasic, Tihomir Krasić, Tihomir Kražan Kražarnić, Štovar, Štović, Štović, Štović, Štović and Žvić. The amendment was written by MPs Staniša Stevanović to member 9th and Rajko Baralić to the article. 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 11, 16, 25, 30, 49, 64, 65, 68, 78, 90, 101 and 102. It's a bill of law. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Trade and Tourism and the Legislative Committee. The Legislative Committee shall be based on Article 146(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as untimely amendments submitted jointly by MPs Marko Djurisic and Milan Markovic to the article. 15, 17, 18, 20 and 101. It's a bill of law. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted upon under Article 146(3). Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19236	I don't think it's necessary to say how funny the name is - the advertising producer. So, this coin is not only linguistically horny, it is also unacceptable in communication, because it is probably the rest of Cardell's time, when they were incoherent agricultural producers and various producers. That's how this coin was found - the advertising producer. Instead of such a name, I suggested that it be called an advertising agency or a marketing agency, without being able to stand this - the advertising producer, despite the fact that the legislator of the law calls for the Law on Business Society and the Law on Private Entrepreneurship, because in those laws that I have reviewed absolutely nothing is incompatible with the name I have proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19237	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19238	The minister's coming in right now. Minister, we've started a discussion in detail. I'm sure you'll listen to us seriously and accept our amendments, with further explanations that you'll hear today, and that's why it's good for you to enter the O.R. One present manner of government of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to bill proposals, has been established since 2000 that the Government, when it intends to propose a bill to the National Assembly, then for weeks, even months ahead, ministers, resolute or others who have not had much to do with the laws that are proposed, big bells and in all media, talk about these proposals as some revolutionary achievements, as something that no one has ever seen before, as something without which life cannot be imagined, and so has been with this law. It is true that we Serbian radicals too accept the fact that it was necessary to pass such a law, that it was necessary for the matter of advertising to be arranged precisely, precisely, comprehensively, clearly, without the possibility of abuse, without the hidden ultimate intent, but all of it, or none of it is contained in this bill. In the light of this law, the government said, among other things, that the reasons for the adoption of laws and the objectives that are to be achieved, so you say - the area of advertising is not fully regulated, so that bad advertising practices bring insecurity on the market to us and does not guarantee consumer protection. We have spoken to you in principle, and I repeat, it is likely that other colleagues, that this law of yours does not bring any security on the market and does not guarantee consumer protection, and this should be the ultimate objective of both this law and the overall work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You're still saying - the law would create conditions to more effectively collect income through taxes and other public contributions for advertising services. This and that you didn't write, we know. You are the only one in the Serbian government who aims to fill the budget, and how you spend your budget is a special story. We still haven't had a chance to discuss the final accounts of all these previous years since 2000. I guess one day we'll also be able to talk about how this, as well as the previous two governments, spend and use the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or the money of the Serbian citizens. In your explanation, the effects that are expected during law enforcement would also contribute to achieving the objectives of countering the grey economy by preventing irresponsible advertising. Do you think it's from that real gray economy that none of the authorities here speak of is possible to protect by this law of yours or any advertising law? Well, it's never happened that the real, state-owned, gray economy is advertised in public information. You are still trying to convince the citizens of Serbia, and the MPs in this House, that the gray economy is what someone who has lost their job with 30 years of work, is a tenant, has nothing to live on, and then sells something that he buys at the flea market, sells at some other market on some twisted crate. It's not that, Minister, a gray economy. The grey economy is something much more dangerous for the state and the citizens of Serbia, and unfortunately still present in the state of Serbia. This law will not prevent anything that is not a newspaper being advertised and sold at a kiosk. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate. Everything I said goes about our claim that you, as a government, mean not you personally, did not have any sincere and honorable intention to arrange this area in a way that would benefit all Serbian citizens. In Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 1) you speak - certain terms used in this law have the following meaning, but first I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is also the manner of this government to propose premarital laws, I guess if the law has more pages and members that it is a better law. That, of course, is not true. So this Article 2 was not necessary at all. The legal norm, i.e. the law, must be concise, clear, precise, without the possibility of the so-called A hole in the law, with as little possibility of abuse in the application of the law, and we tell you every time we talk about your so-called laws. Not only your ministry, Minister Dimitrievich, but the other ministries, which are represented here by your colleagues by the National Assembly. So this Article 2, em wasn't needed, and if it already exists, then it has to be neat so that no one who applies it can think and say, can do it like this, but clearly, precisely, exactly as it says in the law and so is applied. You say - advertising is a notice via an advertising device recommended by the advertiser, its activity, product, service or other recommendation with the aim of the recipient, to whom it is addressed, accept or benefit. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I suggested that these words be deleted -- or another recommendation, because it is incorrect, because it means nothing. If there are any other concrete recommendations, then they have to be written in the law -- which, not -- some others, that someone might consider this or that of yours -- some other recommendation, because whenever there's an undefined word that defines something in the law, at least fellow lawyers agree with it, that such a norm is actually regulated and that nothing is determined. The government, of course, did not accept this amendment. I say, of course, because we heard it, and I was saying yesterday, when there was talk of another law, and my colleagues today are talking about the previous law, which is the principle of acceptance of the amendment. We have no illusion that you and the SRS will accept some of our amendments, although we know that you know that our amendments are constructive and that they really improve the text of the law, but you remember all of this well, and you write down in a month, two or three at most we have a proposal on amendments and amendments to the law that has been adopted without our amendments, and then in orderly in those laws you implant what we have recommended through the amendments. But what you're going to do, I hope you can't accept everything, because you have to, through the acceptance of the amendments, regulate the problems of exchanges in your coalition, or trade, or seasonal reduction, sales, etc. But that's still a little bit of your problem. We hope that this problem will be resolved by calling an emergency election. I am going to say a few more sentences about the reason for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment has not been accepted. I suppose, Minister Dimitrievich, that you wrote this, or your service, and if you were familiar with it, in the first place you say - the government does not accept the amendment because by erasing the words, which explain some of the terms used in the bill, it would not achieve precision in explaining the terms. Well, quite the opposite. How can you claim something like this - that there is no precision of concepts if words are deleted - another recommendation. Or -- some other recommendation. Well, if you want the precision of terms, and we want the precision of terms, then delete these three words. You are telling me in the second position - in the Bill's proposal, they are defined by means of development in the field of advertising and the comprehensive protection of participants in the advertising process, the recipients of advertising messages, i.e. consumer protection and competition protection. Where's your coverage? You think it's comprehensive if you say it indefinitely - some other recommendation. If you had listed ten more concepts here, accurate, precise, concrete, then I could accept and then we could accept that it is a comprehensive protection of participants. What you wrote, without our amendment, is in no way in that sense. In the third position, the government's explanation is very interesting, you say - the proposed amendment was not given a more precise explanation of the individual terms, and despite the fact that, in the context of the amendment, it is the reason for the amendment. Well, you didn't expect us to write laws to you as an opposition party. We're distracting you that this formulation is not good, that you can't put such indeterminately unfair terms into legal norms. And the fact that you wrote here that we didn't explain it more precisely, of course we didn't. It's precise enough to tell you that we can't do this indefinitely. And you are power, you propose laws, your congregation majority laws. You will apply this law for a little while, though very short. And we will have time and find ways, when we apply it, to do it both precisely and according to European standards, to make every legal norm clear, that the law can be applied to anyone under equal conditions, to anyone equally, that no one who works on the application of this law, any official, can abuse such unspecified and undefined forms. So, I suggest, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, that you accept this amendment, Minister. At least this amendment doesn't affect your concept or the essence of the law, but you'll admit it makes the law much better, much more concrete, and don't make it a reason just because the amendment comes from our parliamentary group enough not to accept the amendment. I call on fellow Members of Parliament to consider and accept this amendment. Believe me, if you accept this and any other amendments to the SRS, we won't have any changes and additions to this law so quickly. If you do not accept these amendments, remember today, I will remind you, in two or three months, unless elections are called, amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19239	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19240	This amendment shall cover Article 2(1) point 3. That point regulates what advertising means. Among other things, it is said that it is a flyer, prospectus, packaging of products, posters, photographs, charts. So there's a list of these advertising assets, something that can carry and contain an ad message, which is defined by point 2 of this article and this attitude. Point 3 ends in words, "as well as other means by which the advertising message can be made available to the recipient". It's inaccurate, it can be interpreted in different ways. As soon as it's inaccurate, he doesn't belong in the law. I would draw your attention to something that is covered by the next amendment, which concerns the same member and concerns some logical links between the terms that you define for this article. I would draw attention to point 6). That's where you edit what the advertiser is, so you said it was a public message. See what you've written if we get everything in the bracket out of the text. Point 6 would read as follows: The advertiser is a public message, and then you list public messages, whose basic or secondary content are advertising messages. Whoever did this doesn't seem to have read the Public Information Act. There's a dialect between newspapers, like public information funds, and founders. It's never the newspaper's answer, it's the newspaper's founder. In practice, these two concepts are often pursued. When you say "novel", they think of the founder, even though they don't know who the founder is. Any newspaper you take, it has one title, and in an impression when you see who's the founder, the publisher, the editor-in-chief, who's printing, you'll see that there's a huge difference. The paper can't fit. It's a match for the founder. Newspaper's a medium. Please look at point 7 where you said - other advertisers. So point 6 is the basic concept of the advertiser, and point 7 is the second. This is where you listed legal persons or entrepreneurs, who in the windows of their business premises, did not say window, business object, but said legal or physical person. I'm telling you all this because the advertiser can't be a medium, but it can be a legal person who is the founder of that media. So point 6 you have to tie to a legal person. If you tied yourself to a legal person and threw out what we're proposing by amendment to get out of point 3, which is in this part, where we're looking for a erasure, really imprecise, then this could make some sense. So, in defining the terms used in this law, you're making a practical mistake. So point 2) - what's an ad message, we don't object. What's an ad? The means through which the message comes to the one to whom it is referred. Is it intentionally, by any chance, relevant to this bill? Next, advertiser, that's the one who needs to advertise. Advertising message manufacturer, author of the website, author of the memo, advertiser and other advertisers can only be legal or natural persons, who perform, among other things, this activity. This is how you put the mix-up. The receiver of the advertising message is clear, the sales place also, the open space of what you have defined is fine. So point 3, point 6) and point 7 have to function in some way, they have to talk, they have to understand each other. To understand what this is about, I deliberately used it to point out to you on the case of the Public Information Act, some call it public intelligence. So, newspapers are a means, publications are a means of public intelligence, but newspapers can't fit. Its founder, under some conditions, even the editor-in-chief, is responsible, unless the author is known. According to point 7), where you tied the window not to the place of sale, but to those who perform the work, who owns it, etc., then you had to apply that logic to point 6). This is all you've listed in brackets in point 6) should have a place in point 3. The Rules of Procedure are no bother to have the government intervene with one of these amendments, because then this makes some sense. If you don't, then we have a problem with the misdetermining the basic concepts used in this law, and these terms, as you've misstated, you're not so wrongly interpreting in other provisions, but in other provisions you've seen there's a difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19241	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19242	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Parliament MP Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment to Article 2 asking to be deleted in point 6 of point 1. Article 2 paragraph 1 point 6) reads: "Advertiser is a public message (news, radio programme, television programme, service of news agencies, internet and other electronic publishing of public messages, etc.)." What the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic is asking for is to delete part of the text in the brackets "and other means of information intended for public distribution and indefinite number of users". The reason why the amendment was rejected by the Government is: "The Government does not accept the amendment for the same reasons set out in this argument for not accepting the amendments to Article 2(1) of the Verica Radete People's MP." They're forcing us to go back to what one of the MPs once explained why they didn't accept the amendment. The amendment of the People's MP, Verica Radete, was not accepted by the Government on the grounds that certain terms and concepts used in the bill were explained in the bill's proposal and would not achieve accuracy in the interpretation of the concepts. They further say that the bill defines the development in the field of advertising and the comprehensive protection of participants in the advertising process, the recipients of advertising messages, i.e. consumer protection and competition protection. And the proposed amendment did not give a more precise explanation of certain terms, despite the fact that, in the light of the amendment, it stated that this is the reason for the submission of the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only after this explanation why no amendment has been accepted to me is really, and I suppose to you, nothing is clear or at least is clearer than what was asked for. National MP Gordana Pop-Lazic asked that "and other means of information intended for public distribution and indefinite number of users" be deleted. I'm asking, what are "and other means of information intended for public distribution and an indefinite number of users"? What are these funds that the ministry can determine the number of users? Is that a billboard, so someone from the ministry will stand by the billboard and pick up the computer and count how many citizens of that town passed by the billboard and get to know the ad message. Is that television? If it is, and it isn't already, because this TV, how many listeners, viewers, how many of these "and other means of information" today in the mailboxes -- opened up a man's shoe shop in the village, made paper ads to fix shoes from 16:00 to 1900 hours and put it in every mailbox. Is this for an undefined or undefined number of users? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the laws must first of all be clear, members short, summed up, that everyone understands the law. The way you stuck it, there are few people who will understand, and I think the biggest problem is right in the translators. Today we have the opportunity to see the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, where he is the witness of Prof. Vojislav Seselj and where translators are just making the biggest problem, or they translate something upside down or something they don't translate right or something they don't translate at all, and then what witnesses or defendants say turns out wrong. I think there's a problem with translators here, too. You paid them for nothing, they didn't translate properly, and that's why your laws are so vague. On the other hand, many of the laws in this Europe that are pursued by Europeans, said Brana Crncevic, who crashes into Europe, many laws from that Europe cannot be applied literally to the Serbian area, to the Serbian market, or to the Serbian language.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19243	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19244	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, starting with the amendments to Article 2, which was explained by Ms Verica Radeta on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, you will see, and especially through our intervention in Article 4, that the inaccurate and incomplete formulations through the definition of terms, in this case in Article 4, in the context of the advertising principle, are the fundamental failure of this law. If you already wanted to bring it, and we do not argue that it was necessary for Serbia to have one such law in this chaotic situation as regards both frequency and advertising and everything that affects the citizens' brains, to start from underage children to our oldest citizens, then at least you should have taken our intention to fix the law seriously, to better define some concepts. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I intervened – since there are more interventions in Article 4, the principle of truthfulness, fullness and determination of the advertising message – on the second point, where I suggested that for the data that a certain advertising message contains, in addition to information that must be true, complete, they are scientifically or significantly confirmed by scientific experience. It is incomprehensible that the proponent of this law, the minister or representatives of the government, who gave us the answers and thus responded to me that this amendment is not acceptable, have double arches. When we talked about selecting members of the board's council in the previous law, you insisted that they must be people, members of the council scientifically proven by the legal profession or economics and, as such, be proposed by the various associations. What bothered you, this is just an answer for the answer, so you don't accept the law. It's more specific this formulation, be sure. In the case of any kind of advertising, they must in any other way, in addition to the truthfulness, be confirmed from the domain of the profession or science that defines that concept. Whether it's an ad for a chemical product, whether it's an ad for a food product, something about culture in general, something from a social aspect, whether it's a matter of whether or not it's an amendment from a colleague, Sarovic, which also defines this Article 4, the truthfulness of the data through the surveys being conducted, and there's excellent intervention to know on the basis of which relevant data someone can publish certain surveys; therefore, nothing bothers because everything has its basis. Adverts like advertising and advertising have the greatest impact, of course, in addition to established or unconfirmed on the quality market, whether a product or service will be sold. If this is further defined through an amendment or through a member with the support of science or this proven experience, it is indisputable that such intervention can be accepted, in order to only improve the proposed text of the law. The principle of truthfulness, fullness and determination of the advertising message, defined in the law and not applicable in practice, will be very dangerous, as it has been so far. You know that, and this time I will be potential NGOs, through funding primarily from the Soros Foundation and from various agents from the West, are advertised everywhere in Serbia's cities, in every place, through billboards that are most expensive, in the most frequent places, with untrue messages and with a way of advertising that is primarily insulting to the greatest extent and human dignity, us members of the Serbian people and all other citizens of Serbia. I have to remind you of all those billboards that were glued to Belgrade on the eve of the Srebrenica event. And not just that. Calls for the collapse of constitutional order, desertion, boycotting what are civil obligations, and above all human and citizen rights here in Serbia and everywhere in the world, are not small and rare phenomena, and are driven by Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko and other representatives of these most dirty agents, whose goal is to individually and those who finance them, to gain only material gain. But it is fortunate that the awareness of Serbian citizens, both underage people and those who have graduated and trained, is now expressed in the younger population, I think of students, so that they recognize the danger behind such messages. They are not only not true, but they are tendant, directed against what this law should protect, and above all we as a people, and in all these different situations when they are advertised, of course, directed by their financiers. The law itself, as seen through all the amendments that we have submitted, has a lot of ambiguity instead of defined terms, putting on expressions such as "can be", is a kind of uncertainty that is present in individual members, as is the case in Article 4, and will again be spoken of by fellow Sarovic, because his amendment refers to that position, through the inaccurate definition of members and the unskilled involvement of allies. All in all, the amendments of the SRS MPs, all of us who submitted to this bill, had the aim of finding one law in the best form possible in the day of voting after the adoption of these amendments before the MPs of the National Assembly. MPs who are here from the ruling structure, if they want to even consider this bill, and it's not something they shouldn't think about, because advertising again to the greatest extent, except that it affects people's consciousness and that it's a good point of manipulation in any sense, is also a very important step in improving all processes in one society, especially when it comes to the launch of the economy. Because what today is the greatest pain of Serbia's economy and the definition of what we have, and what we need to place on the market around the world, are products that are not affirmed enough and not branded enough, as you want to call it, to have a market pass, and above all because of the internal blockade, because it is obvious that those who are working on the production of quality products in our country, besides the ability to advertise them and promote them on the foreign market, have internal blockade through all the restrictive legal measures that have been passed so far, above all I think of the Ministry of Finance. I urge you once again to accept this amendment in the voting day, which I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, and thus you will once again confirm that any scientific knowledge from any field or experience has been gained in practice and how important that something better be advertised and that this message and that advertisement would be in the right sense of the word true and complete.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19245	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 4(4) of the advertising law, and this is one of the three amendments that the SRS parliamentary group has submitted to this member of the law. It is very important that Articles 4 and even of these few members at first, can be said freely, determine certain principles of advertising in one precise way all of this matter is regulated, so that the consequences of which probably the legislator, and certainly we do not want to, are avoided. My amendment asked for the fourth position to delete the words "can" and add "number of respondents", so that the position reads: "Advertising message contains statistics or the number of surveyed and polled results, provided that the advertising message data does not give a greater value than the one they really have". The explanation given by the ministry is completely pointless, as it is said in the explanation that this amendment is not accepted because not all messages contain statistical data, i.e. the number of surveyed and survey results. If this is carefully read and interpreted, that is why there is this "and" where it says - the advertising message contains statistics or the number of surveyed and polled results, provided that the information in the advertising message does not give a greater value than the one they really have. Therefore, it is clear that it will not have to and certainly this amendment would not impose a general obligation on each and every type of advertising contained in it and the data provided in the survey, the number of surveyed, the results of the survey, etc. There would be an obligation by advertisers if they called for a survey to say that the sample was so much and so much, that the results were you and you. So if someone's going to say -- here, this is convincing, the results of the survey we came up with safe data that this is the best product on the market, it's polled by three people, and those three told him it's like that, or there's only one person that can happen to be surveyed, and that's the best thing that I've ever tried, and it doesn't necessarily mean that he's used other products or anything else, then you have to admit it wouldn't be enough to be based on the survey that says that this product is the best. If a commitment is introduced for those who are already calling for poll results to have to say -- so many people have been surveyed, but the fact that one man, three or five or a small number of people has been polled, so that data on the quality of a product, services or anything else can safely be found, they will clearly talk about how reliable the survey is. To those who are serious, both advertisers and those who offer truly quality products and services, they will be no problem in doing a survey in ten or fifteen Serbian cities, doing a survey on two, three or 5,000 people and saying - we have a really representative sample, so many and so many people we have surveyed in various cities, 80% of people say that our product, service or anything else that advertises that quality, best or not, best for that money or anything else. In this way, it would simply avoid the possibility of abuse, that, under the false certainty that some of the polls produce products that do not correspond to that quality, and of course those to whom these ads are available, could be wrongly concluded that this product or service is a better quality than it really is. In this way, a little more security and order would be introduced into this area that we are now regulating, and I really don't know what these reasons are that motivates government representatives to reject these amendments in such a way, especially with such pointless explanations. This is not something that essentially affects the law, it is not something that would disrupt any concept if you have it at all, but I think it would in one concrete way contribute to the protection of end-users, users of services, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that is exactly what you have declared as the goal of passing this law. I just have to say a few more words about the position of the 5th of this same article, where it says that the advertising message can contain scientific or seemingly scientific terminology, provided that the information in the advertising message does not give a scientific character that does not have that information. Here, the minister is here, and I even think he listens to me very carefully, so I'd really like him to explain to us, let's kind of swallow this "science termology," there we might be able to figure out what you meant by that, but what is "a seemingly scientific termology"? So what is "a seemingly scientific termology" and how it's possible to use it, you say, the information from the advertising message doesn't give a scientific character that doesn't have that data. If someone uses "a seemingly scientific termology", for which I really don't know what it means and what it can do as scientific terminology, it will probably depend on the degree of education and on some other factors, as well as who will evaluate what is scientific, what is seemingly scientific termology, and is this seemingly scientific termology given scientific character? How it's even possible that seemingly scientific terminology is something that the scientific character that this data doesn't actually have. I think you've exaggerated here in an attempt to legally define something that in its very nature escapes the ability to regulate and put into some mold and law. So you can never predict by law every single case that is possible to appear in some future. So some things must be given in and felt by those who will enforce that law. I urge you once again to accept both this and other amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19247	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Stanimirovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19248	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 4(4), I just want to, and for the sake of those who may not have read the law carefully, and also for the sake of our citizens, to read. He says, "Advertising message can contain statistics or survey results, provided that the information in the advertising message does not give a greater value than the one they really have." We believe that in this case, Article 4 of the word "analytical" might be more significant to change by giving a more precise formulation and using the word "research". The notion of research is much broader than the survey. The survey is a public method of research, so the term "research" in a case like this is far more appropriate than the formulation we received from the promoter. Paragraph 5 states: "Advertising message can contain scientific or seemingly scientific technology, on condition", and then we thought that the more precise formulation to say "to specify the source of statistical data and research results" and then to keep the text in the text of the 5th proposed member remains the same. It is said that the information in the advertising message does not give a scientific character that does not have that information. What is the motive of such a proposal? Namely, the indication of any statistical data or research results should be, above all, followed by a source of these data, especially when data are used for product advertising purposes. In order for the data to be verifiable, it is important to note who did the research and to whose research the advertiser in that case calls. By providing this information, we are thinking of preventing the recipient of the advertised message from possibly being led astray or deceived. I expect the minister to accept such a solution. This will make it more complete and precise to regulate that provision that is defined in Article 4. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19249	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejičić. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19250	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS, to Article 4(5). The government gave its opinion on the amendment, did not accept the amendment. She has also given a rather illogical explanation, and in that explanation or explanation, it says: "The government does not accept the amendment because the proposed amendment would not achieve the clarity of the norm, but would narrow down the domain of protection for the recipients of advertising from misleading advertising." I think someone in the government is trying to find hot water. Item 5 of Article 5 The bill says, "Advertising message can contain scientific or seemingly scientific terminology, provided that the information contained in the advertising message does not give a scientific character that does not have that information." That, according to the government of the Republic of Serbia, is a clear view. Let's see which one would be clearer. If my amendment were accepted, Section 5 would read: "Advertising message can contain scientific terminology, provided that the information contained in the advertising message does not give a scientific character that does not have that information." Let someone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia explain to me what is "a seemingly scientific termology" and who will measure it? Will it be done by seeming scientists, seeming experts, the seeming ministries of the seeming government? I fully understand the desire of these parties to call themselves a democratic bloc or a DB, they have introduced here since October 5th some truly apparent terminology and are constantly using certain words that most citizens do not understand, even when they themselves use them. You've become more bored with both God and the people with "transparent", with "conventions", as if there were no more acceptable and precise expressions in our language, and all of this out of desire to show that you are seemingly pro-European-oriented. It is likely that some of the apparent experts are also trying to put in some kind of pretentious scientific terminology, and I don't understand why the proposer did not accept this amendment, because it does not change the essence of the bill itself. It is said that it would narrow down the domain of the protection of the recipients of the notice if this amendment were accepted. What's wider now, is it seemingly scientific termology and scientific or just scientific? Which is a broader substance for abuse, these two terms or one of these two. I agree, if you write "presumably scientific," you can put it all in there. Next, what are the criteria, to repeat that question, which will separate what is scientific, what is not? Whether you will, just because you allow incomprehensible words to be used, but they are already accepted in our language in a certain way, that it has some meaning that is not defined. The citizens don't know what it's all about, but that's what everybody's talking about, so come on, and I'll use that word or I'll take it as a message from the ad. I guess because some product is transparent, it's good, because that means he's from the pro-European party, meaning some political message or ad or because he's from the EU market, etc. In principle, it seems that this term - seemingly scientific can be used for many more things. I'll tell you what kind of messages were apparently scientific in 2000. For example, there were an apparent six billion dollars if Milosevic fell out of power. You'll all agree they're obvious, no one's seen them. It was apparent that democracy was coming to Serbia because we experienced the Sabre. It was apparent that the people would live better, live up there. It was apparent when this government was created, which is the government that continues the continuity of the previous government, that it will be better, it is still not better, every day is worse and worse. It's just an illusion, gentlemen, that you'll be in power for a long time. You'll be replaced by the SRS very soon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19251	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have asked the amendment to delete the other forms of hidden advertising from Article 5 paragraph 3 of the word "an advertising directed to the subconscious", as well as the words "other forms of hidden advertising" from it. The answer I received was why the amendment was not adopted by the Government: "The government does not accept the amendment because by erasing those words, it would not achieve the accuracy of the norm, but would narrow down the possibility of protecting the recipients of advertising messages that are contrary to the principle of recognition of the advertising message, or some of the forms of hidden advertising affecting the subconscious." Is this the law to prevent voodoo magic? Is this the law to prevent a return? Is this the law on the prevention of carbon pollution? What's the impact on your subconscious? Do you even look at these commercial messages that you import from the West, translate here and place on our market? Every notice from the west in a fraction of a second has a hidden message that affects the subconscious directly. In a fraction of a second, you are inserted into the film that will affect your subconscious that the next day, when you go to the store, you buy only coke, exclusively a Pepsi Coke, and not another, counting that it's your determination, your attitude, your choice, and they're telling you to spend money where they want to spend it. Multi-national companies have the whole strategy based on it. Don't think about these messages of ours, made here, wrinkled. For example, it couldn't possibly affect me, my subconscious couldn't possibly be affected by the billboard thing -- the wolf knows the way. Not me, but the citizens of Serbia. As far as the Wolf knows the way, numbered in votes, it was a little less than a statistical error. Therefore, I think this law would really win quality if we threw out these nebulous or nebulously translated segments. Therefore, advertising directed at your subconscious will cast you west at that moment, ban you from applying this law these mentors of yours who have long since handled you. Other forms of hidden advertising. Don't mind those who brought you here on October 6th, who paid you, allowing you to come to power. They'll give you up in the papers, at the New York Times they'll disown you, not in secret, but openly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19253	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ). On the title above Articles 8 and 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanja Cekovic, Milan Ninic, Blagica Kostic and Stanisa Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Milovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly, MP Milovan Radovanovic, in front of the SRS parliamentary club, submitted an amendment to Article 14 asking for Article 2(2) to be deleted. Article 14 reads - TV advertising within the meaning of this law is the broadcasting of advertising messages with or without compensation, to recommend advertisers, its activities, products, services and other recommendations, with the aim that the recipient to whom it is sent accepts or benefits. TV advertising is done without compensation in cases, so one is fine, and two - public service statements and advertising messages from non-profit organisations for charity and humanitarian actions, as well as their calls for charity or humanitarian action that are carried out without compensation. Before I begin to explain why this amendment should be accepted, I will begin with one finding. You all remember that BK Mobtel gave that message - call the number and that one, and then the half-paid 50 dinars and 30 dinars of prepaid from the account will be removed and sent to the giro-account and the one for the treatment of children, etc. Many citizens, feeling the human need, turned that phone and Bogoljub Karic, that is, his candidate for mayor, do not know what the lady's name is, because she runs the organization, with the added value tax charged, with the tax charged and with his commission charged, the rest of what you 50 dinars or 30 dinars paid there. On all the TV shows she went out and pushed into the chest of a hero as she and Bogoljub helped humanitarianally. Therefore, a nonprofit, humanitarian organization. Here's how these non-profit and humanitarian organizations that are self-inflicted and out of the field that are neither humanitarian nor non-profit. Not someone who has set a monthly salary of 210,000 euros to be human, not at all. However, he goes from the fact that God first created his own beard, so he saw that it stood well for him, so when he took advantage of all these charms and riches, perhaps some of his great progeny would be human. He's not in a jacket. Therefore, it is necessary to strictly separate which humanitarian organisations can be advertised free of charge. You can't allow such or similar usurperers to be advertised for free. Therefore, we ask that point 2) of Article 14(2) be deleted. This isn't the only case, though. We remember many more humanitarian organizations. After all, humanitarian concerts that were free of charge were also filled with pockets and some who were in that power until 2003, and to God those who are now in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19255	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment is Ambassador Milan Stanimirović. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19256	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 14 concerns TV advertising and TV sales. What my colleague Stanimirovic wanted through the proposed amendment practically refers to item 2 of point 2) which, among other things, says that public service statements and advertising messages from non-profit organisations for charity and humanitarian actions, as well as their calls for charity or humanitarian action, which are carried out without compensation. What Mr Stanimirovic wanted to enter in the proposed text of Article 14(2) would refer to educational and cultural manifestations and actions that are non-profit. In an explanation that we received from the government, I see no reason for the government to say - it does not accept the amendment because public service statements are covered by Article 14(2), which means statements relating to education and culture. Who reads more carefully the text of the proposed member will see that there is really no precision in this part of the area that Mr. Stanimirovic's amendment has set, which is that it refers to education and culture. We can assume, but really whether there's a precision or not, and whether there's a void or not, we don't want to assume. We think that it is better that the law contains all the provisions in itself, especially if it presents no problem for the promoter, and in some ways we find it odd why such a solution, which we consider really correct, which is aimed at correcting the text of the law, is not accepted by the promoter. But that's what he's saying, in some sense, about the proposing himself, who, and things like this, which, above all, concern education and culture and those activities that are directed in that direction, thinks he's defined enough through his own text of the law. What would the people say? No one has been taught, neither is this government, nor is this minister. We believe it was extremely correct to accept this amendment, but it remains on the motion that the Government also bear responsibility for one, first of all, a good idea that the DS had that proposed amendment to this article had just rejected, through one hoot of reasons, considering that they were still the smartest. Serbian citizens see very clearly that this government is far from being too smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19257	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bogoljub Pejcic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is from the People's Messenger Bogoljub Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19258	Article 15 sets out the total duration of TV blocks and determines the percentages of how many advertising messages may be made from the total daily broadcast of commercial TV stations. So, by illegal interference in editorial policy, the legislator wants to prescribe commercial stations how much time they can use in advertising. This is especially important because lately, more and more talk about privatising TV stations, and now that you're going to a commercial TV station, which lives on the market, which has to behave marketly, to determine how much it is allowed in percentages to publish ads. Of course, any commercial station that pre-names commercials will not be seen. Therefore, advertisers will not be interested in advertising their products at such a TV station. So let's let you commercial TV stations behave marketly, edit their programs, and how much time they're going to use for TV advertising, that's their problem. So, the problem is also advertisers, because I repeat, if these commercial TV stations misbehave, if they refuse viewers to watch their programs, such a TV commercial station won't even have interested people - advertisers who will advertise on such a TV station.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19259	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Your Honor, I have listened carefully to the argument you have made and it is unacceptable for me for several reasons. First, commercial TV stations use ether as a resource that belongs to all citizens in one country. Secondly, commercial stations, I'm talking about electronic media, it doesn't have to be just television, it's one of those enormous advertising times that can lower the price of the advertising message and thus unfairly compete with someone else who isn't in such a situation. Third, there's one number of TV stations that, by the way, and the radio station, don't worry about the ratings. It is important for them to broadcast advertising on their programs as the only program. I wouldn't name them because I don't want to advertise them. Also, there are TV stations and radio stations that under informal advertising, such as information emissions, and in information shows advertise the engagement of local self-government in an unprofessional way, they charge it, not as advertising, but as an information programme. So it is a fraud anyway. I very much respect your views and understand what you have written in the form of the amendment, but I believe that the legislator has an obligation to protect, among other things, citizens from the terror of advertising. The advertising is in the triangle. Economic operators who want to advertise their products or services, to find their way to the buyer. Potential consumers, based on correct advertising, learn what could be the appropriate product or service they want to use and the media that needs to provide their income. The state has an obligation to balance these three things, that no one has any harm in it, and that they all benefit. Of course, it's very difficult. I think a member of the law, which regulates this, is written with a measure and in that sense I couldn't support the amendment. Please understand, this is nothing personal, this is just conflicting with different arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19261	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19262	Let's just continue with the subject my predecessors talked about. Article 15 refers to the duration of TV advertising and TV sales in commercial TV stations programmes. The amendment requires that paragraph 2 be deleted, of course, without touching paragraph 1. Item 1 reads: "The duration of TV advertising and TV sales in commercial TV stations can be up to 20% of the total daily broadcast program". The items we are asking to delete are: "Time of TV advertising (I potential TV advertising no more TV sales) in commercial TV stations programmes can be up to 15% of the total daily broadcast program. "We ask that this attitude be erased. In order to understand the justification of this amendment, I must remind you that in the transitional and final provisions of this bill, certain provisions of the two laws which cease to apply when this law is adopted. So, only two laws have been found appropriate that, in some ways, certain issues of advertising offices, so these provisions are no longer necessary if this bill is adopted. One is the Radio Diffusion Act, and the other is related to the health regularity of life supplies and items of general use. The Radio Diffusion Act was passed several years ago, as a very problematic, quite contradictory and law adopted under the influence of NGOs or quasi-governmental organisations. A few days ago, we discussed the Law on Radio Diffusion in a section relating to a TV subscription. To remind you, in 2002, the law seemed to me when it was passed, when a TV subscription was established, Deputy Prime Minister at the time, Zarko Korać was interpreting, defending, pushing for the introduction of a TV subscription. She was scheduled to leave in February 2003, and she didn't leave until today. He's about to go, in a way. We have large lectures about what public service is, and what is a commercial program, what is a commercial station, what is a cell of interest to the Republic, the public, and then we have interpreted what this means - public in the whole bill of law. We've seen that whoever proposed the law doesn't know how to interpret a word - public, not a word - service. Soon, a TV subscription will start to fund RTS, no matter what form it is. I ask the question, if this obligation is imposed on all citizens, they say there will be 300 dinars, then does this state TV station have the right to finance itself through commercial emissions? In some Western European countries, the rule is that state TV stations, which are allegedly public services, do not have the opportunity to broadcast a commercial programme because of the financing of their programme and there is a TV subscription. It's a BBC that doesn't have commercials. I think it's similar in Holland and Belgium, but only in combination with cable TV and the fact that no one can have a satellite antenna. In some countries, the public service is not paid, the state is financing it, but it is dimensional to the needs of the budget, the rule is, one TV channel, one radio channel. We go with a kind of blend. Now let's go back to that part of the agenda that was just a little while ago -- the protection of competition, not to quote one MP as protection from competition. There's practically protection from competition here. Who? Well, RTS. If RTS has secured the right to finance on the basis of a subscription, where does he get the right to broadcast a commercial program? Let's talk straight. There are a lot of radio stations in this country. This member refers specifically to TV stations and their programmes. If the state doesn't finance a private commercial TV station, it's funded -- how? Commercial programs. Commercial programs can be not only commercials, advertising, TV sales, but can also be dedicated reports that promote a locality, and at that site the only bar of a man who finance the making of a documentary film. If this is denied by commercial TV stations, and they are prescribed how much of a minute, in which percentage or otherwise, then they are inevitably questioned by their funding, their existence. I need to draw attention to another fact. If the state TV, too, has the right to finance itself from commercial programs, given the ratings, and when it comes to radio - and to audibleness, coverage of the entire territory, who then knocks down the price of advertising? The law on broadcasting only interferes with the editorial concept of TV stations in certain indications. He may be the most accurate thing when it comes to public service and state television. For the so-called Private TV stations, no matter how important, only in principle regulate some questions about how much of the programme must be represented in the programmes of the station. Then it is right to ask whether we are in this way economically destroying private radio and television stations; specifically, as far as this member is concerned, television. As you can see, we are asking by amendment not to delete the first attitude, but to remove the second attitude. We believe that the first attitude is regulated in, at this point, acceptable mode, a percentage of the total duration for TV advertising and TV sales is determined. If a second position remained, then it would have a significant impact on the concept of the commercial programmes of private TV stations. Then do we have the right to go so far? We don't have that right. If you think RTS should be a public service, that citizens need to pay a television subscription, then they have no right to a commercial programme. I don't argue that there are solutions in some countries, whether it's 10%, 15%, 20%, I don't get into where public service stations can also broadcast a commercial program, but that's their estimate. With them, private stations were created by the law first, and on the basis of the laws, they were shared frequencies, channels. It's regulated the right to use, as my predecessor said, that aether that's public good. How did it happen with us? In our case, it was by breaking all the laws that existed, the Law on Telecommunications at the federal level, so some of them who were abusers there, so some of them gave some papers as if it were some kind of license, which they didn't, so today the Broadcasting Council is begging, please let us know that we're recording, because when we discuss the contest we're going to have in mind who registered, etc. What I'm saying is that today's actual state of affairs is falling short of legal status. I guess you're also taking into account the fact that some television stations that broadcast television programs have been created in fact. You've got these traitors, and they've created money from abroad, like B92, and I don't order a network of joint AEM stations. There's some TV 5, TV 6, it doesn't matter what the mark is. They are united, so they argue with Veran Matic abroad who will take more money for sponsorship. You can't compare that station to another station, which was created based on what some private man thought he could do, get into the business, so now he can't even work, he can't stand the competition. Now he's being welcomed by this law and he says, somehow I'm going to survive the broadcasting, but advertising doesn't have a chance to survive. Why does Kadadinovic not come and turn off the television, but rather push the other minister with a law that regulates some side matter. For the first time, it is regulated by us to perform advertising activity throughout its fullness, from making a message and beyond. In this context, when all of this is looked at, attitude 2 is not only pointless but it is a threat to commercial television stations, where it is said: "The duration of TV advertising is 15% of the total", and for advertising and sales is 20%, so some other interpretation can conclude that it can. Why are we going into small intestines now, into some percentages? It will be very interesting for me to enter a percentage that determines or a minute which determines the duration of advertising and TV sales through RTS. Here, we're now reading in the papers how many seconds, how many minutes, what the price is, and we've seen what the loss is -- where the money is. Where's the money on the one that's going to be financed from the TV subscription? Kadadinovic said whether it slips or really thinks so - they will become a public service on the day when the first dinar of the subscription comes into their account. What, so far they've been to heaven or on earth? Now they're someone's private "brush." I don't think adopting this amendment is hitting on some business independence of television stations, at least when it comes to these two items of TV sales and TV advertising. With the first attitude you define and determine how much the percentage should be. We don't touch that part. What I just did with some parallels and I've been commenting on some of the things that are happening to us about what's actually going on, I've just used it to bring this amendment as close as it's been established. I suggest you look at the government to adopt this amendment, because unless it is adopted, you further make it difficult for some private stations to continue working. On the occasion of some other amendment, I will talk about how you acted at a time when you were opposition to private cells, in matters of some laws, because your interventions have been touched since seven or eight years ago by individual provisions of this law, so let's see who's more liberal and who's more democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19263	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19264	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, everything Mr. Krasic said was extraordinary arguments, provided that the entire RTS system was not destroyed and suffered damages of $407 million during the aggression on our country. There is no other station in Serbia that has had that damage. Only New Serbia activists, 90 and some years of plastic explosives and remote control, destroyed the BK TV transmitter and TV station "Galaxia 32" on the mountain of Kabul and thus got years of imprisonment, and NATO aggression destroyed 57 relays, master, killing people, complete infrastructure, all that was worth from the show and other techniques. That's why I ask everyone to understand, so that it can be restored and compensated. I thank all those who have supported the amendment to form a transition fund and to place RTS, once it becomes a public service, on its feet as the largest number of citizens, as all citizens of this country expect. So that's just the difference. If we accept what seems very logical, then we would give a man without a leg the right to compete 100 meters with the other participants, who run on two feet. That's not possible. It is therefore important to help the RTS to be a public service as expected. We heard the argument. The potential earnings from TV advertising on RTS are between 15m and 50m euros over the course of one year. If this were to be passed on to commercial TV stations, the objectively large part of that cake would belong to three cells, which, of course, expect to make a huge profit. I mean, with the responsibility that we all have, we all need to measure it and sort of balance it out, and everybody gets what they can, but not to be denied the ability to advertise, which, of course, has some other limitations that other law is about, and not this one. This law defines something completely different. Mr. Krasic is right about the other thing. We have a whole series of phenomena that have been identified and which are the largest number of MPs completely clear. There are people who, as far as I'm concerned, have a completely problematic way of renting a complete advertising space, like RTS. It's Mr. Gilas, the famous head of the National Office, who leased advertising space on RTS for a whole year and then discreetly sells it to whoever he wants and how he wants, and yet he's still a producer of shows, like "Marriage 48 Hours" and others. Or, say, Goran Vesic, who is at a private TV station Pink producer, actually owns the show "All That Pink". He owns a lot of other things, he's involved in public parking dealing with Zika Angelkovic and others -- so just so you don't think we're informed. These are the phenomena we are fighting, but RTS in this game should not be seen as someone who is at this point a victim of such behaviour, but rather as a national television that needs tomorrow with two national frequencies to cover the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so that everyone in Serbia can hear and see what is most important to him, and let those who are paid and responsible for this deal be dealt with. It's very important that the citizens know what this is all about. So, in that sense, RTS shouldn't be looked at like that. When we put it on its feet, when the show and the other technique are restored, when everything is done that is necessary for them to be the national television and public service as prescribed by law, then we can submit the amendment and addition of this. We'd be happy to support that and say no more advertising, no more funding from your subscription, or, you know, you've got advertising, we're canceling the subscription, it's honorable. Now, until these things are regulated, I think this is the only possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19265	The word has Minister Dimitrijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19266	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, since this member has been raised up a little bit of dust, let's try to explain in part what's really going on here. First, this member is fully in line with the EU Cross-border Television Directive, especially Article 18, which introduced the practice without exception in all EU countries. It's just that sooner or later we're gonna have to accept it, we better accept it sooner. Secondly, if you see one similar, although not sufficiently clear formulation has already existed in the Radio Diffusion Act. The 20% percentage is listed there, but it was added to the scale and 20% within an hour, and then the regulation became unclear. Third thing, we had a public hearing that lasted months. We almost didn't notice from any single television show that this 20% of the daily broadcast program was supposed to be a problem. On the site, on the contrary, we had dozens, if not hundreds of opinions that this is one good measure which in no way endangers producers of TV and television. I repeat, we haven't had any serious objections to this kind since the televisions themselves. Of course, I'm also going to say that television is a very specific medium. Right in the context of the power that the commercials have, and that's what those who follow see best in the case of beer. Advertising and television have a tremendous impact on people, both unconscious and unconscious. Of course, known in economic theory, in the history of the economic mission, that I am now not going back to it, that the key factor that affected the reduction of total competition was the emergence of advertising. The concept of consumer sovereignty used to be true and the concept of consumer sovereignty was sacred in the market. However, when commercials appeared, they deliberately and subconsciously influenced the people's awareness that they had completely overcome the concept of producer sovereignty and that the consumer had become an ordinary toy in the hands of mass media, television, advertising and other means. It seems best to be seen in the case of huge multinational companies, which hundreds of billions of dollars spend on propaganda and advertising. Since television is, in this sense, one dangerous toy and one very powerful weapon, the idea probably also of European legislators has been, has been, in many decades of television practice, to limit terror advertising, on the one hand, to protect the fundamental human rights of consumers who want to watch a movie without interruptions for at least an hour or a football game, etc., without jeopardising the business interest of any television. Indeed, I will end this, none of the TVs have signalled to us that by limiting 20% of the advertising, or TV advertising, its business interest will be compromised.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19267	Replica, Mr. Krasic, and then after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19268	I volunteered for the replica because what I said was distorted. I was just making parallels with RTS as a state media and his right to finance from TV subscription and compare it to commercial media and their condition. You know, if the director of the National Office, a machine engineer, a media expert, rents a complete space commercial to RTS, don't put it in the context of my amendment on this article. Put this in the context of that law that was recently passed, or changed, to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that Aleksandar Tijanic knows on which path he is misusing his position and not only when it comes to Gilas and that of his agency. We have three major agencies in the country that create everything in this country. Three hoodlums sit down, and all the newspapers are bound tomorrow and something becomes the main subject, even though it's peripheral. And there's Vin's production. Brooke and shame on national television to buy emissions from suspected TV producers in the absence of its production. Lila Radonjic expert. What can she do through that Vin of hers? Everything and everything. Just the worst. PG network, and if I'm wrong, it doesn't matter, you know what that means. It's not the law, it's the directors. RTS has had no luck with the directors since DOS came to power. First he was the architect of Churchenjakov, so he made his own private billboard firm, for some advertising, and he introduced Suša and these others, so the kobajagi got into a fight and handed the market over to others. Who? Probably B92 and other stations. Now let's be so little, let me open these stories. BK TV that advertises BK every second. When the commercials start, she says BK commercials. All the breaks between the shows, all the breaks between the attachments are BK, BK, BK, who's going to measure how many minutes they have. A television that advertises itself, but never eats itself. It's funny to you, but look at the whole program is BK. Get the information program, Dragan Karic caressing the pig, promises everything, there are some drinking beer, some of this. What's that news? Look, whoever invented the TV invented the remote control. As long as there's a remote control, I'm not worried about the viewers, because when he gets sick of some TV, he goes to another. On this amendment, do not enter stories about the importance of TV advertising, which is its range, what is 24th image, 25th image per second, as it affects, how it does not affect etc. It's already been mastered. Mr Baralic mentioned little, there were experts who went for 100 euros, 100 marks a day to train in Budapest and Segedin, and now there they are in RTS, such as Natasa Miljkovic and others, and some presidents of some political parties, but they also had two liters of whiskey for each day provided. If you have prescribed a total duration of 1 and said 20% for two types of messages, advertising and sales, do not put 2 to influence this internal redistribution, because you are essentially limiting the possibility that someone is performing some work, because what to do if he cannot provide it. Then he's only got five minutes left here. If we can be rigorous, we need to be rigorous about state television. Why? That's what we all pay for. We don't pay commercially, we turn around, we choose the channels we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19269	Mr. Pejcic, I'm not sure you have a basis for replication. I'll give you my word on the amendment. (Pejcic, from the post: While we were talking about the amendment, and the minister replied. Here you go, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19270	Mr. Minister, I completely agree with you what you said, but I disagree when you refer to European legislation. I have over 20 amendments, so I won't answer for the word anymore, but you'll let me say a few more sentences. So, Mr. Minister, let's not appeal to European legislation about this law. This law went to the experts in front of some European experts, this proposal of the advertising law, and I will only quote that it has been commented by Englishman Tony Kinzberg, an expert in this area, who in writing delivers his opinion to the Chamber of Commerce: "The proposal for a law on advertising of the Republic of Serbia clearly contains borrowed elements from many of the existing European advertising systems. He chose rules that stem from various European countries. While in many cases this choice is wise, it also contains some of the worst features of these existing systems. The final result is a proposal designed to prevent, rather than facilitate the progress of the economy and the successful advertising industry. I'd say a young transition economy needs encouragement, not inhibition. "That is contrary to your slogan, which you will see for yourself in the later amendment, "let's buy our own home."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19271	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The People's MP, Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19272	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for delivering this directive to me, which was called upon by the Government to justify the rejection of the amendment. I don't know why television would deliver their remarks or not. I don't think we should suffer from this self-government concept where, when it comes to not knowing what, all the structures of society have to be made known to me about what. It's just that this is a job for the MPs and the National Assembly. I don't understand the government's answer. I don't understand what the directive means. I have, of course, but I do not understand that such an answer is addressed to the MP in the National Assembly -- what cross-border television is, and how these problems are solved. Indeed, Mr. Secretary did not lie. It is true that there is a standard of the same meaning in that directive, but I don't know what it has to do with this country. We have a public service subscription here for RTS, and here we are talking about commercial TV stations, whether we give them equal terms or not. Why, if someone can keep watching, means that they don't harass viewers, that it doesn't ruin their lives, that it doesn't disrupt their peace, calmness, watching a movie, watching a game or anything else, and others are showing economic interest to advertise in that program, why don't we just let what's reasonable? Of course, no one thinks he's going to 30, 50 or 100% and what exists as the basic norm in Article 15. I know this may fit the ones I love the least, what I stand for, but I stand for it because it's justice and justice, and the right to not exist if there is no justice. You can't exactly give the same rights to a public service, with it getting 80, 100 or 200m euros on an annual basis, and you're getting along with all the other equal rights. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman, I know my time is up. I'm looking at this B92, and I see exactly how they got all the state-owned companies to advertise with them. I know exactly, "we're going to attack you for thieving if you don't come here to advertise." I know it exists on some other televisions, but it's not a way to legally deny someone the ability to earn a certain financial asset and, if they want, to measure it with any other television, even a public service. It's his right. Tomorrow someone can't buy a Red Star FK or a Partizan FK, so they want to beat the other one who's still a citizen's association, and you say, "I'm sorry, this is the Citizens' Association, this is a private club, and that's why he can't win. Therefore, the conditions should be fully equal, without any difference. I think that would be the most important thing for our television. Since I've seen them complain about B92 for two days now about being threatened, I can see that someone half-written wrote to them and I expected them to accuse me as the major culprit for something that's going on on B92. They only have one problem, which is that it's all written in Latin, and I haven't written in Latin in a long time, and I don't know if I'd know exactly what to put together. I hope that this kind of racketeering, too, in the variant -- come and pay for the commercial at my place, you'll pay a lot of money, you'll pay for it in a year's time, and then we won't touch your company and company, even if your CEO is a member of the so-called. Former regime, etc. But I didn't want anyone to treat me like that and say, "This is the amendment you want to encourage you and those TVs at the expense of the public service." No, I don't want to, I just want us to have a serious competitive game of people who want to compete with their programs, and if they have a better program, of course, they'll have more advertisers. Just in the end, let me give you an example. When we were doing the campaign, since some of us couldn't count on who spent how much money, so they calculated that we spent some huge millions, and eventually it turned out, when we recalculated, that's 10 to 12 times less than what "experts" were counting. Why? Because we've taken in the best times of seconds that are the most expensive, but the ratings at that point are incomparably higher, even 10 times higher than when you're broadcasting in some other terms. In this lies the success of those who know how to make a good media plan, those who know how to behave properly and who know how to use television. So I wouldn't stop it from being more, let people make more money. Given that a huge number of multinational companies, this is your government's interest, Mr. Minister, today there are about 150 to 200m euros in advertising on an annual basis, they end up budgets somewhere in March, not to prevent the arrival of foreign capital in our television, so also private television, and especially those with national frequencies, in which they most come, because that is the interest of all citizens of the country, and I am sure yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19273	The word is made by MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has nothing to do with this amendment, but about an hour ago, a single statement was issued and I ask that a stenogram be delivered to the MUP, because I have no reason not to trust Mr Baralic when he said that the group from New Serbia and Velja Ilic had mined that tower there. Please, if we couldn't go with those who were blasting a tower on Avali, at least with the ones that are here in the country we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19275	Mr Markovicu, this is not an objection to the Rules of Procedure and the work of the chairman, but is for some other authorities in Serbia. National MP Rajko Baralic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19276	Mr. Markovic, there is no need for such an act. The process was closed, court sentences were imposed, Miroslav Carnex, so the man was called, who was the ringleader, was sentenced to eight years in prison. So, I didn't say anything that was incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19277	National MP Jovan Todorovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19278	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for me, this bill is the most interesting members of 15, 16 and 17. I think they reflect the essence of this law. I must admit that this part of the debate, which concerns Mr. Vukic's amendment, I didn't understand until the end, and I didn't see why it was a controversial amendment. As I understand it, it is proposed not to share this time by law, so if 20% of the total time can be defined for advertising and TV sales, then it is not necessary to determine by attitude 2 how much of these 20% of the time belongs to TV sales and how much TV advertising belongs. I don't think that should stand in the law and that this amendment has a logic precisely in giving these commercial televisions the kind of freedom, that within a time of 20% of the total TV programme on their TV station, the distribution of TV advertising and TV as it suits them, and that it corresponds to the market opportunities in that area where these television stations or radio stations broadcast their programs. If we apply that logic, then in Article 16 of these 10% of the time foreseen for the broadcasting service we should also share on TV advertising and TV sales, so that we can define this time, so 2.5%, for TV sales in the broadcasting service. I don't think that's necessary here at all, because it's like, for example, if a shoe manufacturer, who produces 20,000 pairs a year, would define and say that they have to produce at least 5,000 women's shoes out of those 20,000 pairs. So it's not the law. It should be a matter of some kind of will or market position of those TV stations. Of course it's good to define some percentage of the time that has to be used, or most of all for that TV advertising, because we had such situations that there was simply no order, there was a lot of chaos. If you say that to local stations, and that makes sense, that those in the law are treated like a broadcasting service, 10% of the time, etc., everything is fine. Ali. Let's not define that one-quarter that has to go maximum for TV sales, or 15% for TV advertising, because for that I don't see any particular reason, it can only cause a disturbance on the market itself and it won't contribute, and here I agree with my esteemed colleague, it won't contribute much to any better position of the broadcasting service, especially since this is not a transitional provision in the sense that the period of time of this structure is limited to advertising and TV sales.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19279	The People's MP, Alexander Vukic, called for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19280	The essence of this amendment, Mr. Minister, and he correctly understood the distinguished colleague, is that large televisions with national frequencies do not often want to use what we call TV shop variants and when broadcast them, so when they go with so-called. TV by selling, then it goes on less time-consuming. What's more important to them is advertising. That you've made a variant where it's going to be 18:2 or something, so it's something that's much easier or that they understand better. It may be 12:8, but why would you limit it in this way? Why do you define advertising in that percentage and TV sales in this percentage? Especially because of the previous Article 14 of Item 1 and the last attitude is the clear difference between what you mean by TV advertising and TV sales. I don't think there's any dispute. I simply expect all MPs to agree with this. We have the first position of Article 15, which says that the duration of TV advertising and TV sales in commercial TV stations can be up to 20% of the total daily broadcast program. I have to tell you something, whoever has 20% of the total daily broadcast program, TV advertising and TV sales, that's made a miracle out of television. I don't know who's doing this. They can achieve the prime time of television with a national frequency, even then very difficult, in prime time from 19.30 to 22.30, which is the most visible television time. All the rest of the time they can't fill in like that. In the morning or noon, he can play some TV sales and nothing else. I don't understand why this is how we would limit these television stations to pick up as much revenue as possible. Maybe they can have 1% in TV sales, and they can have 17% in advertising. I don't understand why we would prevent them from making money in this way, especially given the fact that the large parties of multinational companies want to invest in many of these TVs, in advertising and advertising on them. So Procter and Gamble comes in and says, "I want to buy so much and so much, 40 million euros, I want to give on one private television, I want to give 40 million on state television." To tell him, I'm sorry, you can't pay 40 million because I don't have enough time for TV advertising in that period, so I'm gonna give you a rebate for that year or I don't know what I'm gonna do, or I'm gonna pay you back two million euros. I just don't think it's in anyone's interest, and I'm sure the MPs in the National Assembly will accept this amendment, and I'm sorry that since this Rules of Procedure was introduced, it's possible for 20 people to sit in the hall and no one will ever know what he voted for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19281	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 139(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. We don't have the opinion of the government and the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19282	We continue to discuss this member of the law and attitude 2. Indeed, great dust is rightly raised around this attitude. Once again, in addition to everything my predecessors have said, I would like to remind you that Article 15(1) says - the duration of TV advertising and TV sales in commercial television stations can be up to 20% of the total daily broadcast program. There's supposed to be a point. I don't see why the promoter after that would like to determine how and in what way, in which percentage amounts, TV sales and TV advertising are going, especially if you have the following Article 16. One of my colleagues mentioned it, it concerns a public service or a broadcasting service that is projected to be 10%, and there is no division of advertising and there is no division of TV sales. Then the question is rightly raised, whether through this law the proposer favors one in this case the house, one service, and commercial televisions are left to manage as they know and can. I remind you, once again, of the changes to the Radio Diffusion Act, specifically in this case RTS will be financed by three sources: the subscription or the TV fee that you introduced as a majority, from the budget or how you invented that so-called. The transition fund and will be financed on the basis of these commercial revenues that all TV stations make. Then you get an explanation that this is in line with some kind of European directive. We respect that and respect the reasoning of those people who say RTS has problems, but don't tell me that other TV stations in Serbia have no similar problems. I don't see why the promoter wants to favor only one service in this case, and the other commercial TV stations have to have a limit. And in particular, I again refer to the Radio Diffusion Act, which says very clearly that 20% of advertising, which is in the position of Article 15, must be provided for advertising, TV sales or so on. The telescopes, and that's what's left. You in this way practically leave the possibility that 15% amounts to TV advertising and 5% for TV sales. If you wanted, then you could at least predict the minimum that can be foreseen for certain parts of the commercial program. It is logical that every commercial television station, in line with its business policy and its interests, does advertising through the broadcasting of advertising messages or sales in the scope itself. Why does the billmaker want to handle it this way? If we know the law should be the same for everyone, then why favour one public service, specifically in this case? I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Trade and Tourism, who have had the understanding of the initiative which DS had through one such amendment, and that we have proposed this amendment to Article 15 together, as a Committee, I also want to say if a collegiate and correct relationship existed then, it should exist now. Mr. Baralic called a few officials from the DS, bringing out, at the very least, false and claiming that they were well informed. I know they're not DSS, they're SPS and they're notified, but in a particular case, very bad and wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19283	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19284	Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have been holding a debate for almost 50 minutes on Article 15 of the proposed law and amendments to this article, which in itself speaks of the importance of this article, so it would be worth recalling what Article 15 refers to. In fact, we're still talking about the duration of TV advertising and TV sales in commercial TV stations. In Article 15, paragraph 3, says - within one full hour of broadcast on TV stations, it is allowed to broadcast up to 12 minutes of advertising messages and TV sales messages. My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I have submitted the amendment to this very position. We suggest that the number 12 minutes be replaced by nine minutes. The proposed amendment would shorten the time of the advertising message in three minutes, which can be broadcast within the full hour on commercial TV stations. The 12-minute announcement will be broadcast, you will agree on your own, sometimes it takes a very, very long time. A viewer during a program broadcast, we've all probably been more than once able to start watching some feature movie on one of the TVs, and then you have a situation where a played movie that lasts 130 minutes actually sets in the fourth hour of program broadcasting. We think that for so long, broadcasting and advertising within a specific programme and during a particular show is a kind of sort of torture over Serbia's citizens themselves and some kind of harassment. It would therefore be worth accepting this amendment and reducing 12 minutes to 9 within one hour of broadcasting the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19285	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19286	Article 16 is actually a sequel, only talking about the duration of TV advertising and TV sales in public broadcasting service programmes. Article 15, which we talked about for an hour according to the amendments, talked about commercial stations, and this one talks about public service, or about RTS. In Article 16, Ljiljana Nestorović and I suggested that the 1st change be said: "In public broadcasting service programmes, the duration of TV advertising and TV sales can be up to 10 per cent of the total daily broadcast programme". Because of something, which has been insulted in public, we often share with an ordinary citizen a day and night program and I know that when the legislator talks about a daily broadcast program, he thinks about all 24 hours, how long it takes, in this context, to be precise, this amendment is going on. We're just suggesting that "a day's broadcast program" be added "from 0-24 hours". After Article 2, we propose to insert a whole attitude that reads: "In the information program it is forbidden to broadcast advertising messages". You know, we are witnesses, as ordinary people and citizens of Serbia, that we have a flood of TV messages at the time of the most visible information-political emissions. Here, for the last few months at that public service RTS we have a situation that literally looks like this, we start up and down the hill carrying some beer crates, and then the speaker tells us that a plane that killed a few dozen or hundreds of people. In order for that to not happen, we suggest that such advertising be prohibited. In the response given by the Government, it is said: "The government does not accept the amendment because the draft law is in line with the cross-border television directive, and the amendment's proposals did not provide a concrete example of the application of different standards in the EU. "Mr. Minister, I don't have an example of what you're actually saying in this amendment and what you're proposing, and vice versa there are examples. The colleagues in the debate on Article 15 mentioned BBC television, which also has no advertising as part of information-political programmes, but it would not be bad to mention from this pay phone that, if you are calling for something that is allegedly written, where you are making us suggest that we explain it to you, that it is said that neither in our assembly that it is not written that it is forbidden to spit on the floor, so no one spits on the floor in the assembly. Furthermore, Article 16, paragraph 3, we suggest that changes be made and that it reads: "A public broadcasting service programme prohibits the broadcasting of TV sales." It's purely commercial. There shouldn't be a sale in public service. That's the essence of the 16th and Amendments we've submitted to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19287	Anyone else want a word? Please, the word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we don't think it's necessary to cut this time for TV advertising, and I'll tell you why. I understand the logic of the motionor and what Mr. Omerovic was talking about. When a viewer sits down, he can't take 12 minutes of 60 to watch EPP, but to make things quite clear, the way they are in real life. So, only on one, and perhaps on another commercial television, because partly people were forced, as you know, to visit them, these former socialist directors in Hayat, at the pool, so they allowed them not to attack them anymore, just to have their state-owned companies advertised with them. It's not about whether or not you're gonna cut it, because we all watch commercials. Here, ask your child, he knows every commercial. Here, I know, my kids know every commercial by heart. Whatever you turn around, it's commercial. People try to make as much money as possible. Every time I want to see what B92 prepared to do that night, somehow at 19.15, I turn around and come across that ad for a beer, not to advertise it, etc. It's neither guilty nor due, but that's how I come across, what to do, because I'm eager to see what a new lie is, a new manipulation, what a new scam they've come up with. I don't think we can limit them to nine minutes because maybe they're at three o'clock, between 7:30 and, say, 22.30, they can fill up with that 12-minute 60-minute program, and maybe one TV can do something later if there's a good movie or something that's extremely watched on that program. But I don't know why we should keep them from making money like this, and especially why we should prevent a more significant inflow of funds coming from multinational companies, of course financial companies, which are being held back in this country, of which the workers of these houses, but also the whole country and how they have the benefits. I am convinced that we simply need it in this country, regardless of all our ideological differences and that everyone wants to touch the citizens, to tell them something more beautiful than they say, what their political opponents think they bring out, but we have one very important thing -- we have to act, people, market, to make as much money as possible. We've allowed RTS to finance itself from three sources and no one says it's someone or someone has something against public service because it's God's government today, and she loves today's leadership, and we don't love it, so now that's the reason. No, I don't. Let it be. Our interest is to make our public service better than HRT or some other television in the environment, and HRT is terribly strong, given the media space of this part of the Balkans. We should be competing. Of course every country needs to take care of that. We also have such significant brands, not counting B92 television, which only serves to deceive the public, that they will come up with charges against Serbian radicals and against all Serbian patriots. I am convinced that Serbian citizens want to have a normal programme, that they want these TV stations to advance, that their programmes are incomparably better, and not that we are making them impossible in any way. Because if you do them this type of cut, for nine minutes, calculate how much of these TVs, and even in election campaigns, if you will, lose money from all of us, who took that money back from the citizens of Serbia, and we don't give it back to them. Since some have spoken so of Serbian radicals and the money we are getting, we were the only ones against that law on financing political parties. The money we get, unlike the others, in the most part, except for the basic costs we have, because we never throw ourselves away, we return to the people. So Tom Nikolic went and built houses, the first houses in Jasa Tomic and Međa, Bobište to Leskovec, so computers are sent to all our schools in KIM, so money is sent to our people, thus buying artificial fertilizer, cattle food, etc. This is a way to bring something back to the people, to ordinary people, and to benefit people from it. I don't see which one could have any damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19289	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Alexander Vukic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted this amendment for the reasons I mentioned in the explanation and attempt to convince you to support our amendment, but even Mr Radosavljevic's amendment to Article 15. It is about creating fair conditions for all those who deal with public information, so informing citizens, for all those who broadcast their programme in the sky, that is, in Serbia. And interestingly, this cross-border television thing, and I have to admit that I didn't understand, I would beg you, Mr. Minister, I'm reading your directive, I've killed myself by reading, but I don't understand. I accept that I'm not particularly smart, but I'd like you to explain it a little more in detail and more thoroughly. On the other hand, I respect many recommendations. The EU's recommendations primarily discuss the fight against corruption and crime, which is booming in many areas of social life. We're not doing anything about it. Where we're supposed to protect our producer, even if we're a television producer, we're not capable of doing anything, but let's take it off and what none of us are looking for, and what someone would even see through our fingers. We don't exactly have to rewrite every norm. This is what Mr. Omerovic was talking about earlier, to be quite honest, it's about so-called. Cut, for those who do not understand this language, why would it be allowed in the Serbian television programme, especially when you have educational character emissions, scientific, cultural, whatever you want. Someone, in what all citizens pay to get that kind of opportunity, is going to abuse the program in that way. Why would that be necessary? Why would that allow someone? I don't know. In this sense, I think public service should be something limited. There's also a BBC, in certain segments of the program. But in what is most important to them, most importantly, the information program, so they don't have any commercials, and in particular they don't cut programs. Now imagine the public service log, and in the middle of the diary there's a commercial for Coperton or I don't know what. What is it that Serbian citizens are obliged to watch, who have already paid for the programme, which have already paid for the journal, which have paid for the cultural, scientific and educational programme? We didn't limit RTS, we didn't limit public service to income. There are even amazing things out there, that 60% can go over third parties, various amazing things that allow many abuses in the future. I'm afraid you didn't calculate that correctly. When you look at it and you control it, you can clearly see what a great foundation it is and the basis for machinations, manipulation of financial and abuse. That's why this is one way to give competition rights to other TVs, even B92. It's my favorite TV. Me, or the party I belong to, when they don't attack one or two nights, when something new doesn't add up, I just get sick, I have to think of something to tell them, and then they start going on a campaign again. Every time they start with their campaigns of lies, intrigue, fiction, you remember one of those, which is that Tomislav Nikolic killed someone, so no one was ever killed, when he was killed, or anything else, let alone the mention of the killer. They were all able. To tell you the truth, you'll find it very interesting, the prosecutor says, there's no evidence that they wanted to cause a disturbance of public order and peace, and there's evidence that I'm being called by the prosecutor today, because I told them something, I guess I stood up to them. Let me let you know, I've been assigned to the D.A.'s office, to the D.A.'s office. I'll explain to them what they are, what they are. They're keeping a good record, a little reluctant. They don't feel comfortable writing all that stuff I say to those who asked the prosecutors to chase me, they don't know what they're for, I guess, because of their stupidity and fiction. But, you know, that's very interesting. There's been a new announcement today, some new one threatening me with criminal charges. They say from the DS that I lied for two million marks, I was not allowed to sign a letter to the prosecutor who was recruited by an SPS official, Dragomir Tomic, and the money ended up in Zoran Djindjic's cabinet. I personally signed a letter to the D.A., or to the Republic Public Prosecutor, and I didn't hide behind any other name and I told the truth. I wrote the truth. I'm ready to give you more information and what I didn't write. But what bothers me is that everyone in this room knows I'm telling the truth. You all asked me, who's it about, the first one or the other one? You all know in this room that I'm telling the truth. Isn't that right, Meso? You all know I'm telling the absolute truth. You all know exactly what it looked like, who it was and where the cafes were brought in by some socialist directors, and then paid for the racket. It was at the Verdi bar, at the beginning of Chumic's Soccer; brought in under the signs of an alleged, called toll to dinner, and then told them how and what would become of them, what their fate is unless they draw this amount or so much money to pay for their freedom or freedom of members of their families. They said if I could sign that at all, they'd file criminal charges and I'd be responsible for atrocity. I wasn't a bastard, I wasn't insulting anyone, I wasn't saying nasty things, I was just stamping thieving, racketeering. Extortion is a criminal offence, as referred to in Articles 180, 2nd and 3rd. That's what I did. I filed that memo in accordance with Articles 223 and 224. ZPP, right, Mr. Jojic? (Petar Jojic, from place: Correct. So, I did everything in accordance with the law, and I ask and expect the prosecutor to say whether it's true or not. If it's not true, I'll answer. If it's true, I'm sorry, you don't want to blur it out by someone saying it, and that's another bitch, another one of this or that. And it would have gone somehow if it were 10, 20, the procedure is of course the same, but this is such a social danger that someone takes two million marks for nothing, which today is like two million euros essentially, something a little less, it's something that has to be stopped and it's something we have to fight against. That's why the truth is going to win, no matter what hacks or haranghs some of them are dealing with in this country and their media, who think it's enough just to say - that's hate speech. I saw today that television I mentioned earlier, B92, was actually an exposition of the Hague tribunal. Everything The Hague tribunal played, which I believe wanted to resent Vojislav Seselj, was playing everything with B92. They seem to have nothing else to do in the meantime, the only thing they've been doing is, let's put down their statements a little bit and deliver these to ours in The Hague, Jeffrey Nays, to fight against theirs, such as Seselj and Milosevic. It shows what we have in Serbia today. But they must know that a time of fear has passed. They've had enough fear in the bones of the people -- we'll watch you on our television, watching all of Serbia. I don't care what you do to anyone on your television, because Serbian citizens know who you are and what you are, and Serbian citizens want to deal with thieves, and for God's sake, there will be some who took part in privatising certain television channels, along with a lot of thieving, on the indictees' benches in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19291	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Article 17 of the amendment lays down Article 139(3). Rules of Procedure submitted by the Trade and Tourism Committee. We don't have the opinion of the government and the Legislative Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandar Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 17, paragraph 2, says among other things: "If the conditions laid down by this law are met, advertising messages and TV sales can be broadcast in a way that does not violate the overall and value of the emissions, or do not violate copyright". What we wanted to define more precisely through this amendment, and all in order to create more equal conditions for the emitters in Serbia, is that this member or attitude 2 applies primarily to commercial television. We clearly leave room in this situation to have or to create a public service privilege again. I remind you once again, the public service will be financed from three sources. By amending and supplementing the Radio Diffusion Act, we have left room for the broadcasting service in Serbia to be financed through the subscription, from the budget, that is, how you renamed it, from the Transition Fund and through the part that is collected from the sale of the program through advertising. It is unfounded to allow the abovementioned institutions to, in addition to the revenues they will make under those grounds, generate additional revenue, especially if we bear in mind the fact that citizens are paying a subscription, paying for the production of the programme and that this programme is being resold and that once again the public service achieves its income and thus. It doesn't exist, most of them will agree, an interest that would justify the situation I mentioned. Therefore, that viewers are paying a subscription for a programme that broadcasts ads in a proposed way during the duration of the emissions themselves, with very significant and respectable revenues being made by broadcasting the advertising content of that institution. I am pleased to have had the opportunity to see that the MP of the SPS, Mr Zoran Angelkovic, understood what a public service was, since there was a debate on the Radio Diffusion Act, since everything he spoke about public service was the opposite. And his amendment is almost identical to the amendment that we have now proposed. I'm glad that what the people say is understood. I want to believe that the explanation we have given through this amendment will be crucial, but I am sorry that the minister is not presently silent, and that almost no explanation we have given, any of the MPs who participated in the debate today, has given themselves no right to give an explanation. Or that, in addition to those shrewd explanations that we got from the Serbian government, why the amendments don't go along with it, that someone has an additional explanation. Someone here in the O.R. says at least he's here. But neither of us have any god-awful ideas. How much the ruling group cares about these laws confirms how many there are in the O.R. Someone mentioned earlier, when it's voting day, they'll come to vote here, not knowing what they're voting for. That's how they voted for a TV subscription. That's how much they knew about it. So they came without restraint to impose Serbian citizens. Why do we say "imposure"? Because RTS hasn't been transformed. The law on broadcasting in the work has not been implemented until the end, and RTS is now in a position to gain advantage over other houses in Serbia, by funding from three sources, and this is the best example. With this amendment, we want to create more equal conditions and enable commercial TV stations to be able to cope. I remind you once again, DS is not against public service, far from it, but it is the government's task and these authorities to show seriousness in this matter. At the very end, I'd like to speak to Mr. Wolfich. I think that once again attacking the late Prime Minister is something that is not correct and not honorable. As far as DS is concerned, you're gonna have to prove it, but at best he's talking about yourself. I'm really very sorry that you tried to attack in this way once again, so specifically in this case, the late president and the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19293	Replica, MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19294	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I expected such a sad story, because every time there is no argument, then the late prime minister. I didn't insult him with any word, I didn't give him any qualifications, I just gave him a factual description of the work, which was my duty, because I would answer in court for not reporting a crime or give God some other cover-up unless I did. It's my civic obligation, Mr. Radosavljevic, which you should have known as a lawyer, my duty. By law, I'm responsible if I don't. I didn't say, you didn't read the first thing I wrote anywhere, but I said that two million marks were taken to Dragomir Tomic, it was recalibrated, and the money was taken away, maybe you're sorry about it, maybe he's some boss of your party, I didn't hear he was dead, don't God, Ljubisha Bhuha Chuma, and he took Zoran Djindjic away. I'm sorry I couldn't get that name out, I'd love to throw it out, but I can't agree to say it ended up somewhere else when it was over. I'm sorry, I'm more fond of the truth than your demagogy and your empty story. Vojislav Seselj is in The Hague, he cannot answer you. You sent a hate statement against him and against the SRS today. Is that your morale? There's something else about honor. Each of us has done a lot of things. For once in my life, every man, but one thing I'm proud of, is that I've never stolen anything from anyone in my life, and the honor of those you represent and how you differ. I won't defend anyone's honor if someone stole the money, kidnapped the money, recruited someone, because there's no honor. Thief, racketeering and kidnapping are not honorable business. It's a serious crime, and that's going to show whether he's going to press charges or lead a case against me, because I admit, if that's not true, that means I wanted to cause a disturbance, or a disturbance of public order and peace. If that's true, then you'll have to go out for this pay phone to apologize to, not just me, but everyone you've told -- who you mention, that and that. What, am I supposed to be quiet? Am I supposed to say it didn't happen? Am I supposed to say that I took two million marks from him, so you wouldn't send his son to jail? Why don't you tell me what the reason is? Any man for his child would let the bandits come to him and say, "Give the money, or else your child goes to jail." The man gave the money to the boss, and the boss was brought to him by Ljubish Bhuha Chuma. Excuse me, I think for the citizens of Serbia, the truth is far more important than your empty story and how you're going to attack me. Attack me however you want, say any words you want. I'm telling you the truth now - you'll see what's true. And I'm telling you-- the government authorities know this is true what I said. For political reasons, some of them earlier refused to pursue prosecution by official duty and had to answer for it. And how they have information on this case, and I have more witnesses who will confirm the damage to the suspect that he's been robbed and recruited, more witnesses. You don't think I'm stupid enough to go out with a story like that without her being false. Second, Mr. Radosavljevic, I saw a statement for you. You know, Mr. Radosavljevic, that's true. Everyone in the DS knows it's true. I know you know, but I'm an honest man, because private conversations are never publicly transmitted. I know that most members of the DS leadership know that. What are you pretending to be no one now? Shut up, I said it once, I said it because of this stupid statement, so I'd keep my mouth shut while the D.A. continues, and then you drag me by my tongue to tell you publicly about something that I wanted to leave to the D.A.'s office to do as my job. They asked me, I only said two sentences. There's more information I didn't want to tell the public at all. Don't play with it, the most important thing is the truth, the most important thing is that people know whether it's true or not. If it's not true, I'm politically responsible. They'll change me in my party, people won't vote for me. And then I'm going to answer and I'm going to have legal consequences, I'm going to go to jail, I'm guilty if that's not true. Here, Mr. Radosavljevic, it won't be long now, unfortunately for me and for you, unfortunately for all Serbian citizens, you will see that it is true, and the truth is the greatest honor and the most important thing for all citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19295	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Radosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19296	Mr. Wolfie, the old good practice of attacking the DS. We had a chance to see training when you were in the mayoral campaign. The most disgusting lies against Mr. Bogdanovic. What's now being said to me and all the other DS members doesn't surprise a bit. I came out to tell you that you have no right to attack any member of the DS, because out of 100,000 DS members, I haven't had a chance to see any dishonest and dishonest. I won't let you at least talk about DS members. As far as the evidence is concerned, I am truly looking forward to what you said in front of the state authorities. Do not think that we are such people as you are saying, that this minister of justice, in the image and work of Stojkovic, would just be loving, watching over and watching over us. A man who was a close associate of all regimes from 1980 to 1995, 1996, a man who burned books and remained in memory of it, is now, in your words, someone who is the protector of the DS. Don't talk like that. As far as we're concerned, I am truly looking forward to you getting where you need to prove it. That's what I wanted to say, but I really think it's a shame that you once again attack DS, extremely ground floor, inhuman, inhuman, but that's what it says about you and let it serve you honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19297	Replica, Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19298	I agree, and the truth is, he's saying that about me, and I'm fighting awful hard for him to say that about me. Today I am one of the few people in Serbia and a member of the only party who can speak openly about corruption, crime, theft, one of the few who can mention the name of today's most powerful in Serbia, such as Ljubisa Buha Chume, one of the few who dares to oppose such a type of crime and thief. You remember those cards you showed that Neda Arneric was really in Belgrade at the time, remember Mr. Radosavljevic. Did you lie to the people? You're talking about disgusting lies, shame on you, Mr. Radosavljevic. You can tell someone that. Everything I've told Mr. Bogdanovic, and he's more honorable than you, it's true, so gentlemen from the city government in Belgrade, now I'm going to reveal to you a new affair, they've paid a trip of 150,000 euros. The same tourist cart was bought by Dragan Markovic-Palma in Jagodina, the same for 6,900 euros. Mr. Radosavljevic, 1:22 or 22:1. I have to ask you, is it household behavior, is it household business, Mr. Radosavljevic? Don't tell me about who he is or what he is. Every one of us has a family and they're the best. People will assess our political action. I know you want me to end up in jail. If what I'm saying isn't true, I want to end up in prison because I deserve it for this family, but if it's true, Mr. Radosavljevic, sign up for at least three days to dig potatoes, even though you're not personally involved. It would be a pleasure to see you. Here, I accept that, I accept that kind of public bet, because you know that I was telling the truth and because you know that I heard it from the leaders of your party, because you know that the whole of Serbia knows it, only people were wondering what case Vukic was thinking when it was announced, because there were several such cases. There are other cases here, just waiting to see evidence and confirm more witnesses to such cases. It was a time when you thought like today - you could go to jail. Maybe so, but I'm telling you, it's better to break that story because the truth will have to win. Either I go to jail or I go to jail. I agree with that, and I accept that, unlike Natasa Kandic, who could come out and lie, to say that it was a persecution. I accept going to jail. I'm not convicted of any crime if that's not true, because then I'm really out of line and I insulted someone who didn't deserve it the worst way, if that's not true. If it's true, then we'll talk differently. I think it is necessary for Serbia to know the truth without a flat-rate assessment of God's insults, slanders. Leave it to the competent state authorities. I didn't even mention Zoran Stojkovic. I don't know where you found him. What does he have to do with the prosecution? My friend? I can't brag about that. He's my acquaintance from the Assembly. I've never been to my house, and I've never been to his house, I haven't been to his office, he's not at my place, so I don't know how my friend is. Where are we, at the market? I don't understand what you're talking about or what he has to do with the whole story. You're a lawyer, you know what the D.A.'s office has to do with the Justice Minister. I guess you shouldn't. In our country, it's true, anything is possible, and I wouldn't be surprised if it were. Anyway, if you want, you go back to this, and if you don't, I don't mind, but I did everything I did, and I signed it myself, and I'm going to answer for it, not someone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19299	Does anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 17. Trade and Tourism Committee? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19300	Dear Mr Vice President, honourable Members of the People, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18. The draft advertising law, by proposing that this member be deleted. I suggested that this member be deleted precisely because he was contrary to Article 17, which explicitly regulated the way in which the advertising message and the TV sales were broadcast. I will quote this member who I have proposed to delete: "Translate international sports events of national importance (Olympic Games, Sports and European Championships, etc.) can be interrupted by broadcast of advertising messages and TV sales for the longest nine minutes per hour, with the total daily broadcast of advertising messages may last the longest 10% of the total daily broadcast sport programme." So this article 18 is contrary to Article 17. The bill, which even in ten views accurately, explicitly regulated the way in which the advertising message was broadcast, and for these reasons, Article 18 is unnecessary and should be deleted, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19301	Anyone else on the same amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19302	Article 18. The bill specifically sets out the transmission of advertising messages during sports transmissions through public broadcasting services. So it's a member of RTS, referring to TV ads. Here you have inserted that the total daily broadcast of advertising messages can last for the longest 10% of the total daily broadcast sport program. You've tied this to sports events of international importance, so they're like such manifestations in the brackets of these Olympic games, world and European championships and so on, and that's what the Council of the Republic Broadcasting Agency will find. The question arises, then, what is the difference between the transmission of a domestic and international sporting event? In the event of a domestic sports event, you regulated it by Article 17, and you regulated it in a general way for all broadcasters, whether they are a public service or not. That's where you said you could do it in halftime. You're giving a priority here, and you're still binding, as if you know that an international sports competition will only carry RTS, or an international sporting event of national importance. You probably tied him only to the team, but as far as I know, the League of Champions is of national importance, national importance are also Balkan games, national importance is the UEFA Cup, national importance is the Goodyear League and, depending on the sponsor's name, some of the two or three parallel basketball competitions. Probably every meeting between our team and the foreign team is of national importance when it comes to top-notch sports, because this has nothing to do with physical culture. Here's the sport on the market. Why do you only tie that to public service? We have several TV stations that transmit international sports events, including international sports events of national importance. Probably Formula 1 is not of national importance, because there are none of our own there, but what would differ from the usual sports programme, the second international sports programme and the third international sport programme from national importance, and this third one is related to RTS. As you can see, all teams are being followed by one private TV station, not RTS. I don't think there is that specificity when it comes to an international sporting event of national importance, that special rules would apply to those rules that you promoted in Article 17. That's the whole point of this amendment. The whole point of this amendment is that I guess in that commercial part everyone who participates should be, I can't say the same, nor equal, because in the previous provisions you've established an imbalance, that whoever is financed from the subscription can also be through advertising, and whoever is commercial can't by subscription, only by advertising, and then you're still cutting him off for advertising in percentages and time, and here you're now giving some benefit to a public service of national importance, meaning RTS. Even if he's your director now, then we've robbed Bostan. We're out of luck with RTS directors. One market of RTS gave way to one private station, followed by someone else, so he gave it to the third one, so now this one's going to the fourth one, and he's going on a tour with everyone. Most of all with NGOs, mostly with private production houses where the emotion is directly involved, so it is released here and there, just in case, if this director falls, not to close all the doors on other private media. Somewhere they fight, they don't fight, they hold tensions, they hold the public, it's like it's something of national importance. Tijanic's problems are not national problems. It's his personal problems. They tell RTS people that every month he's got 900,000 dinars at his disposal, so he sets out who he's gonna do what he can, so he's gonna have that vet 50 grand for his hairstyle, this author's this big, and the cameramen don't have to pay. When someone starts screaming and moaning over a national service, over national television, I don't know if they're crying about transmitters, about employees, about programs, or about the director. Everyone who complains about national television only complains about the director. For me, there's no difference between Suša, that architect, and this Ristic who's being pushed somewhere right now, flies, there's no difference, it's all the same school. They think they're going, they're just changing the location, and they're going to three locations very often to get their opinion, and then they're letting these, a little bit of them go, they're communicating with these, they're communicating with those, but they never cancel out those relationships that relate to the sale of minutes, to the exchange of production programs, etc. When defending RTS, locate defense on something that's truly national. Alexander Tianic's national value, people will laugh at us. Why would he be worth it? Up until 15 days ago, you were in power, complaining about how he wasn't treating you at all, at least you had time, so you were talking about us in power, and we don't have our own station. Who had their own station? NGOs. What's the difference in the program between B-92 and RTS? Not at all. They have some journalists there, authors of some shows, and keys, and unlocking, and Thursdays, and Fridays, and this, and that. People imagined everyone watching RTS, so they compete around these devices as to how much ratings they have, percentages, etc. I don't care about that at all. People invented a remote control, so now there's cable, so if you don't like these, go to someone else, so look at someone else from a closer and further abroad. But let's make normal business conditions, make a regular market. If we're restricting someone for something because we think that this behavior is forbidden, then we're doing it in an objective way or in a neutral way, and this comes to me as a positive discrimination against RTS. A little bit of a positive discrimination. We're full of laws of positive discrimination. This is something that looks like this positive discrimination. And if you knew they were transferring international sports games of national importance, you'd drop this particular RTS director in private TV agreements, and this is where he screams it's inappropriate, how the Fubola Alliance sold to someone, and he didn't know it. Enough of that behavior. You're seducing order if you want to be power. If you think you're in power and you don't rule, then it's not even a strange sign - go to the other side, the government falls.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19303	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 139(3), paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19304	Paragraph 2 of Article 18 states: "The list of international sports events set out in Article 1 shall be determined by the Republic Broadcasting Agency. "My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I have submitted an amendment that reshapes this position and replaces instead of a broadcasting agency with the words "an independent regulatory body responsible for the area of broadcasting". When you listen to this on the side, however, when this bill is established, it, like any other, determines certain powers to the Republic authorities and should not be referred to the names of the Authority, but only their jurisdiction, which is determined in one general way. It is one of the rules that has been laid down, the minister also knows about his ministry colleagues, the methodology for making the regulations of the Republic Secretariat for legislation. For example, I will remind the minister, the Ministry Act has been regulated and says it was founded for example. The ministry of trade and tourism, however, is not said anywhere in the law to be run by the ministry of trade and tourism, but is said to be run by the competent ministry of trade and tourism affairs. So, I think the minister will accept one of these amendments, simply because it just harmonizes with something provided for in the methodology for making the regulations of the Republic Secretariat for legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19305	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Penezic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19306	We are talking about what MP Rajko Baralić started two hours ago, which is a member with a title - A way of selling TV advertising services and TV sales on programmes of public broadcasting service institutions. We'll stay on RTS, since that's what it's about. Item 1. reads: "The public broadcasting service institution can sell its advertising and TV sales services to third parties for a year at the most in advance. The total value of the services referred to in Article 1 shall not exceed 60% of the total value of the programme intended for TV advertising and TV sales in one calendar year. "We propose by amendment that the percentage of 60 be replaced by 49. Why? If RTS is unable to, in addition to the TV subscription that you're going to charge with electricity bills, 300 dinars per household, so if within that minute, where he's been given the honor of the government of the Republic of Serbia that he can also broadcast a commercial program, now if he can't secure the sale himself within a total minute, then he shouldn't exist. Then what do we need? You say - it could sell up to 60%, it could sell in advance. He needs money, so he'll sell in advance. Who? Of course, he won't sell it to me. It's not going to sell to any of the agencies, it's going to sell to the chosen ones, to those who helped return the subscription, who helped stop probably this affair around the minute and sell the space. Something else. We've always had something like a principle so far when it comes to something public, a state. It's a percentage principle. If something is hundred percent to make it state we say - the minimum must be 51. So one percent more than half. For someone to have a majority, you're always looking for 50 percent plus one. It's been a criterion so far. If the commercial service of a public broadcasting service is not able to provide funds from commercial business, in another way, but rather to find a dealer, so that it is sought in some percentage over 50 percent, which is this percentage of 60 percent, then such a broadcasting institution should not exist, because it is not capable of providing normal functioning through subscription and through commercial services, which means that it also has its own educational programme, its own production, its own information programme, its cultural and artistic programme, to carry sports events, to be active, to inform and inform citizens truthfully, timely, timelyly, objectively, impartially, etc. I can't understand that we're passing the law because of a man who's been beaten by a voice that he's capable of, and by the legal provisions that adapt to him, it turns out he's incapacitated. Why could 60 percent of the commercial program go ahead and sell? This program, about messages and these things. To bridge funding. No, we're going again like that Dinkic story, the surplus, the surplus, the surplus. For two months, the country trembled to worry about what to do with that kind of money. When it gets a little loose, some ministries haven't paid their bills since February last year. Well, then how does he have a surplus? If this is really your commitment to go up to 60% of this, then please, I'm telling you, here's what I'm saying. I'm saying that the SRS has a candidate for director of RTS who's going to cover all this with 30%. Here, let's cut this in half right now. Here, MPs, if we change this member and put 30 percent instead of 60, the SRS can provide you with a director who under these conditions can function. A few. Any successful man who's done some business, the CEO of some company, who knows what the value, who knows how to organize a job, is going to organize this. But you're giving Tianic 60 percent. I don't get it. And the principle in all relationships between public and private is -- that the state would have something, in order that public service could possibly exist at all, probably 51 percent minimum must be state. Now, in that sense, we have submitted this amendment, to show you that I can't have my grandmothers and frogs in the same basket, and I can't have someone succeeding in the morning and then fail in the afternoon. He can't. He can't -- on television, big ratings, all success, etc., and the workers who work in RTS didn't get paid. We haven't gotten a few things yet, at this point, it's not on the agenda right now, but once RTS had his own correspondence, so he kept an eye on all sides, etc. Now I can rightly ask you a question -- if it's a public service, next to the local media Studio B, which monitors what's going on in Belgrade, what do you need with the Belgrade programme. It's as if the one in Presevo is very interested in what's going on in Belgrade. That program is of some local importance to you. What the whole country would see if Makish had any water or no water. You've got something wrong here. Not you who represent this law, but those who wrote it to you, and those who passed the Radio Diffusion Act and those who run the human policy, and those who promote this. I know you'd be happy to change Tianic, but you don't have the courage, because he's going to scream. So JUL changed it, and then after he screamed, he immediately moved to the other side. He's like that. He's got these proclivities. And you know for yourself, when you get in a bike and plant the pumpkins, then the pumpkins go over your head. You asked for it yourself. If you asked me, I'd tell you-- don't pick him for a living head. But you were strong, strong a year ago, you won't listen to anyone. Well, you're not listening now. And here are the most well-intentioned recommendations, at least that's what I always say. I'm not going to give you anything malicious. Anyway, I'm starting with that, so tomorrow I'm coming to power, so we better apply normal laws than wasting our time on changing the law. Now with professional and normal proposals, I lobby the electoral body to vote for the SRS. Why would I be talking here right now about something that the citizens would scream at -- how he's not ashamed to say this and suggest this. But, rest assured, 70 to 80 percent of the citizens who follow this share my opinion on RTS and these things. Let's be honest. You wrote 60. Find me a reason why you didn't write 90 percent. That he can sell out 90 percent in advance. How exactly did you find him at 60 percent? There you go. We asked for a change in this percentage. I explained to you how we measured it to be 49, and we measured it for you, for us. That percentage could go much, much lower.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19307	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Peneziche, for sure, you've got almost seven minutes to go. The amendment is proposed by the MP Tomislav Penezic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it came to my amendment, I wasn't here right now, so I thank my colleague, Krasic, who made the replacement. First, I'd like to make one complaint to whoever wrote this, and the government is in a signature. They gave me the answer that the government did not accept the amendment because there was no reason for the proposed amendment. I want to give you criticism that you incorrectly transferred here to this paper my amendment. It reads - in Article 20, paragraph 2. percent 60 is replaced by a percentage of 49. Those who have it in front of them probably think I've made some kind of nebulise. In your case, Article 20(2): 60 is replaced by a percentage of 49. Please, the percentage is something exact, and the estimate is how modern they say it now is obvious, and I'm a fan of the common language, which they say roughly. So, one letter, one letter mistake, you have to be aware, it does a lot. And even one piece of the letter. Now I'm going to go back in time when I was studying, so the professor told us that one sign above the letter changes the whole concept of a sentence. Somewhere there at the station, it was written -- water's not for drinking, it's for Latin, and the hoods are erasing a sign that looks like a short-circuit accent over "c," and you see what it says now. So this is where they left out one letter. (Glass: What does it say? You see for yourself. Yes, there are some here who, from fellow MPs, would add another sign on the other side, so it would be "h," but good. So, I've done a little math... (Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, from the place: I didn't understand you, you'll have to explain it to me later. Looks like she recognized Mrs. Leila. I'll sit with you, and I'll explain. I'm saying, I've done math, even though I'm not a mathematician. I wanted to get help from Mr. Albianic, but they say he's preparing for the military minister, so I can't ask for him. So I did some math based on 10 percent of that program that can be sold to a third person. Here's the thing, 24 hours, 10%, that's 2.4. Or, a total of 135 minutes. If it stays as proposed in the law, then 60% means 81 minutes is sold to a third person, I will say, as Mr. Vukic said, for the abuse of that program or reselling or who knows what it can do, and the public broadcasting service only has 54 minutes, or 40 minutes, if we go up to 60 for sale. My proposal is, and yet to direct the government to criticism, they say I haven't given them an explanation, here's the proposal, I'm giving a fine explanation, and they say there's no explanation, so they haven't read it, and I'm proposing by amendment a reduction in the value of advertising services and messages to third parties below half the total value of TV advertising and TV sales in one year. Isn't this an explanation and explanation? He says the government doesn't accept it, because there's no reason for the proposed change. I don't know what I'm supposed to do, attach this math to you, and then accept that it's an explanation. Therefore, by sticking to that rule, and this is the position of the SRS, that public undertakings, any, any, any, any, any of the public enterprises, should not go into the majority ownership of whoever buys, but rather remain owned by a state or state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19309	Thank you, Mr. Penezie. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Article 20 of the amendment lays down Article 139(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Trade and Tourism. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 21st Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19310	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 24. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law on advertising was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. This Article 24 reads: "Advertising in the open space takes place in a way that ensures safety of pedestrians, motor vehicles and other traffic participants, protection of cultural and historical monuments and goods from general interest and preservation and promotion of the city's appearance, i.e. the inhabited town". In line with the SRS proposal, following this text which, according to us, is not controversial, should add the words "as well as public morality". So we don't see anything controversial in this formulation of this member, which the government has proposed to us. We think it would be good for this formulation to expand a little bit, so that this article would be particularly covered and emphasized that advertising in the open space is done in a way that provides, among other things, the protection of public morality. We've already had, I think we all know that very well, different billboards. I think that's what's absolutely the most expressive, and that's what we thought most about when this amendment was written and submitted. We had, indeed, all over Serbia a billboard which, at the very least, can be said to be offensive content. I will come from those who have been paid by various quasine government organisations, or organisations of some other governments, to stand in Belgrade; there were about 100 billboards in Belgrade; the direct cause was the date - 10 years since Srebrenica was released. These billboards showed some facts that were really, in my opinion, contrary to public morality. These were messages that indicated that the entire Serbian people were a genocide, that we were a criminal people, that in Srebrenica a crime was committed on our behalf, on behalf of the Serbian people, that everyone should, therefore, feel some collective guilt, that we regret, that we are going through some cleansing, some circles of hell. It was an unsustainable pressure. Of course, it didn't just stop on billboards. There were many more pressures, literally on the very being of the Serbian people. They asked us to give up our history, to admit simply that we are a criminal people, that we accept it first, and then, of course, it wouldn't be any problem for others, if we say something like that for ourselves, with full right, they say -- here, these are these villains, that's this wild people, these are the people who have done the worst crimes possible for some of their own purposes. In addition, I must point out that there have been a lot of billboards that have been shown in an extremely inappropriate way by women and who have been abused in an extremely inappropriate way by certain female attributes in order to advertise, if it can be called advertising of certain products at all. I'll remind you of some commercials that were for car tyres, with comments: "It fits well on every base, which you'd rather have" and so on. I don't think anyone who's in their right mind can say they're going to stand up for something that's the opposite of this. I don't think this should bother anyone who's normal, well-intentioned, who has a mother, a wife, a sister, a girl, who wants to let their children out of the house at all, and who doesn't think about what his parents or children will be able to see, how they can develop further, what they'll accept as normal. And certainly what can be seen in every step of the city, exactly the youngest generations that are most accessible to these influences on the side, certainly their consciousness will be formed in that direction, that what is, therefore, manifested in public, throughout the city, on the roads, something normal, common, and that so simply should be. The explanation offered by the Government for this intervention, and I tried to explain for what reasons it was given, not to accept this amendment, because Article 24 refers only to the conditions specific to open-air advertising, I really can't understand. That anything else said, that you said -- here, you're illiterate, that you said I don't know what reason to refuse anything at all that has nothing to do with political parties or political beliefs. So this is something that should be turned to all citizens of Serbia. I don't know why these conditions are for open-air advertising, and they mean there's no or no morals. Our intention in the SRS parliamentary group was to encourage the legislator to, in this area, in a few other places in the law, simply underline both his intention and his firm determination to appear, which we unfortunately had the opportunity to look into the past, eliminate in the future. I don't know if those three words they would add to this article would bother me so much. They wouldn't change anything. The law wouldn't be much more extensive than it is now. There are certainly a number of members in this law who are much more unnecessary than these three words, whose addition we are looking for. For this reason, I again urge the minister and members of the ruling coalition to meet not only the SRS parliamentary group, but absolutely all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19311	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Milan Stanimirovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legal, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bogoljub Pejcic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Trade and Tourism have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19312	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when MP Vojislav Milajic wrote this amendment, we sat down and I told him - if any of our amendments were adopted, your amendment would be adopted, knowing the minister, knowing his action "let's buy our own home, protect our economy", "let's buy our own home, protect our domestic production", I don't know how your message went. However, in the government's explanation, instead of finding it on these first two or three sides, I find the 17th page of the amendment by MP Vojislav Milajic - the government does not accept the amendment. To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, Article 25 reads: "On public surfaces, the ad board can be placed on the basis of the permission of the competent authority of local self-government." Item 2: "The competent authority may refuse to issue a licence" etc. National MP Vojislav Milajic has asked for a new position to be added to Item 1 which reads: "The competent authority of local self-government, in case there is not enough space on the public surfaces for the ad board, will give priority to domestic natural and legal persons." Position 2. becomes item 3, paragraph 3. becomes point 4. etc. In an explanation of why this amendment was not accepted, fortunately there is no reason that it was not accepted because the previous one was not accepted, so ten until you come to an explanation, here's an explanation right behind this. It is said, "The government does not accept the amendment because it would make the rules of discrimination, which would be contrary to the basic principles of advertising." Good afternoon. Between domestic and foreign, we will not protect the domestic producer, we will not protect the domestic advertiser, we will give the gentlemen of Europe, because everyone seems to have become Europeans, according to Brana Crncevic. We're going to give these people from Europe a nice expression, and if there's anything left for our home, and if he gives something, since last night we've determined how much that convenient gift can be, if he does something, we'll give it to him. In doing so, I don't mean the minister but local self-government, because here they will decide on giving local self-government, I mean Bogdanovic. But this one will receive appropriate gifts while all these billboards are being issued throughout Belgrade, it's amazing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is a little funny, but when you look at the essence, it's not funny at all. Between the "Next" juice and the juice made in "Cooperation with Nature", so they sell it in our stores, and without advertising, I will definitely always opt for homemade juice, which is produced in Subotica, instead of the one produced in Ljubljana. However, I understand that many of them took part in giving locations, such as "Merkator" in New Belgrade, they are your coalition partners from the previous period. Now you've cornered them a little bit, but you're still going to, you know, feel the spirit of the coalition, soon you'll be in the coalition together. You gave New Belgrade the most attractive location to "Merkator" make a megamarket, and it is said that "Delti" will be allowed in Ljubljana. There goes Miskovic and they give him a meadow four kilometers from Ljubljana, here you have a real one. So much for our equality when they go there, and I don't defend Miskovic. I have a special opinion about Miskovic, but I am defending the Serbian economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the minister, since I reminded him of his parole, "let's buy some homemade, let's encourage the economy," that this amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19313	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Krassic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19314	This issue of advertising became interesting there in early 1991, when there was a change in some rules concerning the financing of local self-government, so it was possible to raise funds in local self-government by collecting a communal fee for using space on the public surface for such activities. In the meantime, it was upgraded. There was a problem with those shiny pans, especially where to take them, etc. Now there's been a terrible business developed over the past few years. What hangs on the banners, since not every bander has an electric currenter, is based on "toss your hand in half-six" between those who possess these technical means of advertising and the City Assembly, and there is a real fortune because the city paid for the electricity of some who used these bandits. Big money's gone. A joke aside from what Mr. Markovic tried in a funny way to explain that if we protect our locals, then we should protect it in all areas, not only when the government advertises "let's buy our own home". And Tudjman ran the campaign "let's buy some homework" in 1998 and 1999, so it didn't help him much. He helped some attitude and some consumer thinking, and something happened, but he couldn't stop either he or those later buying and lysing ties, since Slovenia and Croatia are working like that, so what's going on and on about knowing that it's all some kind of licking that's been paying off for years. I didn't answer about this amendment to put the weight on what I've said so far, but there's really one problem at the bar. You're aware that local self-government very often allows someone to leave that ad board in some places that, at the very least, I can say, is the kind of place that threatens people's lives when they're set up. There should probably be some criteria there, too. However, traffic regulation is in the jurisdiction of partly police and local self-government, and this law does not allow us to regulate it in any other way. I'd point to one more thing. There are notices on which one who sets them performs his work and earns great money. There are ads that don't make money. It's those panoramics by the street where some factory that's 500 meters away is advertised and it's always meant for that factory, and there's never been any other advertising or other message. There must be some difference between these two types of advertising. You can't see that in this law. It's probably left to the local self-government to make a difference through taxis and other ways, because one panou makes money, and the other doesn't make money, but they represent the cost of the one who set it up, who got permission to set it up. I draw attention to the fact that there is one part that practically, regardless of what you want by this law in a general way and to fully regulate this area, that there is one part that is not regulated. I apologize if there's a provision, so I didn't notice, but I get the impression there's no such provision. What motivated us to endure an amendment like this? Because he can pick up, and there's been a lot of traffic over a period of time that a lot of people are reporting with a request to ask to open up. The crowd exists in Belgrade as well. There are probably a dozen companies involved, whose activity is to set up panorams and advertise others on screens, for renting the panorama they charge for the appropriate funds. Probably one of the criteria would have to be this, because on our market there are those who deal with this activity, who are foreigners. There are companies that work under our name, but it's founding capital from abroad. There are also third and fourth types of these companies, but in a way it should be possible for local self-government that it does not have so much independence, not local self-government as a term, but that reference there that needs to bring that license, to write or that head of a secretariat that needs to decide, so that this is all set up according to an advanced programme, which has a lot to do with urbanism and architecture, which is either the basis or basis for these attempts and for permits. The license also has this urban aspect, and there's this other one, where I don't think by this law we can solve it when more people report for the same location. And because of this amendment, a mild advantage has been given, and it is based on the fact that the public procurement law has changed, it has also given priority to domestic legal entities, and even there it is said, if they are far above a foreign partner. And the government keeps talking - let's buy ours, if you have money in your pocket, and if you don't go to flea market or Chinese, and rightly Markovic is surprised that what's your message and slogan that you didn't accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19315	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendments was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevović. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19316	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment to Article 25, which was submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group by Parliamentarian Milan Stevovic, is somewhat similar to the amendment submitted to Article 24 by MP Darko Glisic, namely the intervention required by amendment 25. However, I said a lot in my first address when I was talking about the amendment to Darko Glisic, which are the reasons that should in some way consent you from the ruling coalition or the minister who is in charge of this law to accept these amendments, but now I will go from the end practically. This amendment asked for the point to be deleted at the end of paragraph 2 and for the words "as well as public morality" to be added. Article 25 in its position 2 regulates which cases in which the competent authority of the local self-government may refuse to issue the authorisation referred to in Article 1 or the authorisation to set up an ad board and we have requested that one of these cases be added if the setting of an ad board on a public surface would endanger public morality. I've already explained what injuries and abuses might take into account, but look now, the government is again saying in its explanation that no amendment to Article 25 is accepted for the same reason that no amendment to Article 24 is accepted. It wasn't enough that you rejected the amendment to Article 24, but this is how you showed that you didn't read it well and that you didn't try hard enough to understand the meaning of this amendment. The reasons in the article for not accepting amendments to Article 24 were that, in addition to other things, the specific situation for advertising was open, that the situation of public morality, i.e. the ban on public moral violation, was regulated in Article 8 of this Act, but this argument by no basis can apply to Article 25. Why? Because if we don't give the authorities of local self-government the possibility that, in their opinion, damages to the public must refuse to give someone permission to set up an ad board, you'll get into a situation where someone wants to, that's an estimate that such an ad board would bring him greater benefits, or that the ad effect would be greater than the estimated penalties, he can freely, although he knows in advance that public morale will be at risk - he is, but I'm assessing that the effects will be much better, so I'm going to set it up. It may be clear to the competent authority what it is already at the beginning, but the competent authority in local self-government simply will not have a mechanism in its hands that will be able to prevent such injuries from happening. We in the SRS believe that some things that can be prevented should be prevented. It's one thing to punish those who commit some violation in accordance with this law, but I think that local self-government authorities should be given some opportunity to prevent certain things from happening before a crime occurs. In general, looking forward to this law, I must really warn the legislator of this law about one nonsense in this law, because I have been thinking about what further if someone, fully willing and brutally decided to break this law for a certain effect, which would further be a possibility to punish, and said in Article 100 that the advertiser is obliged to keep a published advertising message in a form that allows for the ability to see the message, the information about the place, the time and frequency of advertising, as well as the declaration of the advertising message, for a maximum of 15 days from the day of the last publication of the advertising message. I don't think we've had any more pointless provisions of the law. It's clear that this is a written mess, clearly you have no idea what you wrote about, and it's clear that none of the good lawyers have read this, because if they did, it would have been enough once anyway to immediately notice that something with this provision is wrong. Here, they get that it's mistranslated. It's possible, too. You've had trouble translating some other legal texts before. It's possible there's a translation problem here, too, so you're out of it. If this were to stay this way, it would mean that someone who keeps a 16-day notice falls under the law. If you fast such an ad message in an ether in any way, whether via electronic media, printed, billboards, flyers, in any way, and leave no trace of it, or destroy all evidence, then, in accordance with this law, you are calm, able to sleep, you can come up with a new one tomorrow that you will place, any abomination that it is. But if, as in normal states, you keep that advertising message, which would be necessary for other bodies that have the right to gain insight into that message within three days, etc., then you will already fall under the influence of this law. So, if you are already prohibiting someone from keeping a certain advertising message, on the other hand, from establishing in Article 24 of the obligation that these advertising messages being placed in the open space, or for advertising in the open space, that may not only be billboards, that may be any other form of advertising, you do not establish an obligation for public moral advertisers, in Article 25 you do not give local self-government authorities the opportunity and mechanisms to do so yourself, if they are clear that some abuses will occur, it makes it impossible, and then in Article 100, you disable any kind of protection. So, if there's a damaged person who would sue that advertiser tomorrow, and there's no copy of that advertising message, a picture or any other evidence, simply, there's no way you're going to get the advertiser to send you that advertising message that this abuse was made, but rather, you're stimulating him by law that he gets rid of himself first of all the evidence, to destroy every trace that existed on that advertising message. That way, you here, instead of suppressing certain phenomena in society, you favor them. I don't know if it's that important that this amendment comes from the MPs of the SRS. Basically, I think this is something that shouldn't be controversial. Come on, show those democratic definitions of yours once already and your desire to go to Europe. Tell me in what law, it doesn't even have to be Europe, it can be India, Asia, Africa, in which country in the world is there a law on advertising with such a provision? If you point to any country, it doesn't have to be developed, it doesn't have to be European, in any country on a globe if there's a law with such a provision, then I'm going to call on my colleagues from the SRS to withdraw these and other amendments, so we don't bother anymore. Maybe we misunderstood what all of this is supposed to look like, maybe you're right, but I'm saying, tell one country on a globe of Earth where there's a legal provision like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19317	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19318	Dear People's MPs, one of three advertising ways, as set out in this bill, is the first way TV advertising and TV sales, another way of advertising on radio and third, of advertising in the open space. For open-air advertising, the legislator provided for five members in the Bill's proposal. Article 24 speaks of advertising in the open space, Article 25 speaks of the setting of advertising boards on public surfaces, Article 26, setting up posters on public surfaces, Article 27, setting up posters on other surfaces, and above Article 28 stands the title - The holder of the advertising message containing the information on the business name, seat and founder of the health institution. I ask a question on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, looking at all the provisions of this law - what do the provisions of article 28 have to do with advertising, especially with open-air advertising? This article reads as follows: "The board or other carrier of the advertising message containing data on the business name, seat and founder of a health institution, i.e. another form of health care and working time, must be rectangular or square form, dimensions which cannot be greater than 35 times 55 centimeters, placed on the wall next to the entrance of the building where the office room for performing health work is located. The board or other advertising message holder referred to in Article 1 shall contain other information in accordance with the law governing health performance." Does this have anything to do with this law called the advertising law? On the other hand, if this article's proposal hadn't strayed from some other law into this law, or is this the consequence of just copying from some laws in the environment or under the directive, as indicated by the Proposer here? Looking at the senselessness of this article in this law, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to correct how pointless we can be, where we are talking about this board, which should be a rectangular or square form and dimensions that can't be more than 35 times 55 centimeters, that this part "that can't be more than 35 times 55 centimeters" is deleted. The government of the Republic of Serbia did not accept this amendment and thus remained in the position that the board could be smaller than these dimensions, but not larger. Although it is pointless to predict this in this law, why not include other institutions, and preschool institutions, education institutions, cultural institutions, so that they are all covered, to regulate how these tables should look. In article 100, the draftr of the law provided for a fine for a violation. It did not provide for a commercial offence, but in Article 100, in addition to this 62), the point of intended infringement of the provisions of this law, paragraph 10) of Article 100, is intended to be fined by a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars of a legal person who places a poster on an area other than public, without the consent of the owner, that is, from Article 27, or to place a board or carrier of a notice for a health institution, contrary to the provisions of Article 28 of this Act. Now you see the senselessness and these provisions or these points of Article 100. It is even envisaged, in addition to this 62) point, that, with a fine for a violation of Article 1, a safeguard measure can be imposed against the prohibition of the exercise of certain legal acts between six months and one year, as well as a safeguard measure of the performance of certain tasks to a responsible person for six months to one year. I ask the question here, Minister Dimitrijevic, how could the provision of Article 28 be found in the bill, and on the other hand, why no amendment was accepted if it was proposed to delete -- which cannot be more than 35 times 50 centimeters. This "centimetres" gives a clear reason that this member, as well as most of the provisions of the law, is prescribed, it is known from where, probably from Balthazar School from Zagreb or some similar. Does this mean that this board can be 10 centimeters by 20 and that it does not succumb to Article 100 at point 10, but only if it is greater than these dimensions, then there is a violation and punishment for the legal and responsible person or possibly for the entrepreneur, since entrepreneurs are engaged in health care. By the way, I must say that nothing will help this Member of the 28th Health Institute users and this pilot project, which health minister Tomica Milosavljevic has promoted to the municipality of Kralje, despite another municipality in Serbia, which needs to show great art or invention of the G17 and the work dealing with health. But I must remind the minister and the entire government of Serbia that the project did not have any positive effects in the Kingdom municipality. Unfortunately, health care users are in a hopeless position, especially those who are not directly in the city's nearest center and suburban settlements. I'll just give you a few examples. The inhabitants of Usće territory, which has about 12,000 inhabitants, and Usce is 50 kilometers away from Kralje, and individual villages are 20 kilometers away from Usće, have no other than the hospital general practice of any specialist. No specialist has gone to check on patients in the mouth. They need 70 kilometers, when they get instructions from doctors of general practice, to get early, to get to the King, to hand over a health book with that instruction to be examined by specialists doctors. Another example, next to hospitals held by the Medical Centre "Studenica" in Kraljev, an ambulance in Rocevic. She's 12 kilometers from the King. She worked five days a week, but with the wise decision of the director of the centre of work the general practice was reduced to two days, Wednesday and Friday. Now, according to the rule of old people, and the ageing population remains in those remote villages of the King, which is the case throughout Serbia, they have to wait Wednesday or Friday to be examined by doctors of general practice and to eventually get treatment, to receive injections. And now they are recommended to go to Konarevo on foot 10 kilometers to receive an injection or 12 kilometers to the King. It would be much better if the government of the Republic of Serbia and the competent ministry made sure that medical centres, hospitals, health homes and infirmarys were better organised and worked, to help the population in a difficult situation, especially those who got sick.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19319	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an explanation to me why the amendment of MP Miljko Cetrovic was not accepted at least is incomprehensible. In fact, Article 28 says that tables, which are exclusively health institutions, cannot be more than 35 times 50 centimeters. Why isn't it 36 times 50? What is that measure and parameter to be exactly 35 times 50? Why is it not 10 times 60, so it says only – dentist. Secondly, 35 times 50 if he writes everything he has to write change. And imagine, for example, an ophthalmologist and imagine the one that needs to come to an ophthalmologist and read from a distance what the office is. He doesn't need an ophthalmologist to see him. Imagine a dentist and a man who gives a shit about a tooth, doesn't see a toothache, and he needs to read on this little 35-by-50 plate that's exactly the salvation for his suffering. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the MP has asked for an amendment to erase this 35 times 50, believing that a larger board can be set up, that a board can be placed in accordance with the gauges of the building, as much as it corresponds first to the one who opened the office there and to those who use those offices. The Government does not accept the amendment for the reason why it would make it impossible to choose the size of the table or other carrier of the advertising message containing the information on the business name, seat and founder of a health institution in the allowed dimensions. Imagine now, name, seat, founder, business name, etc. And you put it all on the board 35 times 50. It says the applicant of the amendment has not explained the reasons for the limitation below the maximum size. There's no reason to limit how long his board's gonna be in front of this. It's limited by facades, it's limited by windows, it's limited by nice taste, the look of that building, the look of that board, because it should eventually attract a patient. Why just health care facilities? Why can't a baker do 30 times 50, then a muffin, a barrel, a bagel, and so on. Make it stop. Why do you play people, you constrain one of them that they can't write what's called an office, and you allow others to behave as they please. There's the BK on the whole facade - feel free to talk. Forty-nine percent go to Bogoljub Karic's salary for 230 thousand euros a month, then Happy, until the number of the Karici state runs out of dividends by 49% as much as there is now in BK. He can, and the dentist can't, but he has 35 times 50. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that in the day of voting at least we delete this nebuliso and adopt the amendment of MP Miljko Cetrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19321	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19322	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, chapter three of the proposed law speaks of untrue, comparable and deceitful advertising, so in Article 30, six points, what is forbidden. My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I of the SDP think we should add another point in this Article 30. that would talk about what is forbidden. Our amendment reads - it prohibits indirect advertising showing a trade mark of a product that is not subject to software content or advertising in accordance with this law. The amendment proposed to ban, as a form of deceitful advertising, also include indirect advertising. Special advertising is a very common phenomenon and there is always a time when on TV shows, and usually it is done in morning programs, but also in shows of political and entertainment character, in front of the leader or other participants in the shows puts a refreshing drink in the original packaging instead of being just in the glass. It's a classic commercial that's not marked as an ad, which is contrary to the provisions of this law. You were often able to see, usually in the morning, when you watch one of the TV shows of the morning program, the manager and the host, beautiful as their mother gave birth, lead a certain show with interesting content, and before them is usually a bottle of mineral water, in which last year the Deputy Prime Minister was involved, where the state was damaged by 40m euros, and that this is not the domain of what the lawmaker wanted us to offer. Here, let's say, the same thing happens behind my back. In front of the vice president of the Assembly, together with the assistant secretary, in a direct TV broadcast on the Third Channel RTS, citizens of Serbia, watching this TV, see six or seven bottles of one and the same mineral water producer. Viewers, Serbian citizens, can ask a logical question whether the Serbian Parliament is receiving certain funds from advertising this mineral water. The government, in its explanation, why it rejected our amendment, says literally - the amendment is not accepted because Article 30. The bill does not refer to indirect advertising. Because there's nothing in the bill that says anything about indirect advertising, we think it's something new, and that's why we suggest that he find a place in this part where the billing officer tells you what's forbidden, because the title doesn't limit it, and that's actually cheating advertising, which I explained to you on a practical case. I think, if not the government, those MPs in voting day will support this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19323	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19324	Comrade Omerovic, if you look very carefully, all these bottles have a counterclockwise. That's the first one. Secondly, the government, which was the DOS, began the Sinalko campaign in such a way that they didn't show up anywhere without a Sinalko bottle. I remind you that it took practically all the time, while Mr. Zoran Zivkovic has special interests, so for reasons of advertising one acid water, the mineral waters of Deep, for reasons that are such, and I was raised as a gentleman, so I can't say why this thing was going in that direction, so it was all present here and then it didn't bother me. Now, I fully agree with your argument, except for what you said about the Assembly, because this is where you take care of it. Look closely. It's our water, from this forest. So it can be a problem with multiple aspects. Do those who advertise pay taxes? Do those who earn income in this way also pay taxes? So there's a whole series of things. But we also need to understand the needs of producers, the needs of producers, the various other events that go along with it, sports, cultural, etc., it is not easy to fit everything into Serbia today. I was just talking about it. It would be our luck to find a measure, that those who produce have an economic interest in advertising, that the media have an economic interest in advertising and that citizens get the necessary messages from that advertising they're going to use. Of course, it's a matter of government concepts, legislators, MPs, but to the most extent, I agree with what you've said. There is an abuse, especially on local TV, where a manufacturer of a product that does not make any sense in a direct information character show does not deserve to be found on an information show and chats, and in such a way that the product is actually advertised. I just didn't answer the phone and about the previous amendment, so I'd like to say one sentence. The law prohibits the advertising of legal and health services. From that legal restriction, I suppose, I don't know, I'm not a minister's attorney, that among other things the size of the pano was solved, i.e. Tables of the advertiser because otherwise we might have unfair competition. Therefore, with regard to dental or other medically sized tables, which inform citizens that medical services are being performed there, attention can be drawn. It's a very delicate terrain. It's the same with the drugs, although I have to say there's a big problem in the country today. A huge number of medical preparations reportedly are not medications, aids, various other things, but let those in charge deal with it. Otherwise, there are rules, you know, there's a fellow attorney here in the bar if one lawyer finds himself advertising his law firm in any way he can lose his license to work. It's the same here. In that sense, I understand that, and all of this goes to the point of needing to explain what is proposed here, but I think we understand that it's not possible, because then we would enter into a field that would be very difficult to get out of.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19325	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19326	Mr. Rajko Baralic misread me and the law. Article 28 is clear - board or other advertising message containing information on the business name, seat and founder of a medical institution, i.e. another form of health care and working time must be... etc. So this is about a health institution company and its dimensions are prescribed at 30:00. Imagine now, let's say, dentist -- I take out painless teeth, I fix the rosary, I put prosthetics on, and so on. On a 35-hour board, so let's see who reads it. Or what happens next to the ophthalmologist, the optician is also required, in the same office, this exam, this one, this one, then bifocal, polyfocal glass. Don't, people, if we were playing, if he could read, if he could see that distance, he wouldn't be coming to an ophthalmologist.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19327	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19328	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. With this amendment, we tried to specify the properties of certain facts, products, services or other content that are advertised, how they should be. In fact, Article 31 says: "Advertising cannot cover significant deficiencies, dangerous or harmful product properties, services or other content which are recommended to the recipient of the advertising message". The idea of the SRS was to add the words "untested or unknown", i.e. to change the member, so that it was said: "Advertising cannot cover the essential defects, dangerous or harmful, untested or unknown properties of products, services... ". Given what kind of abuses are possible, and given the government's explanation, which says that the government does not accept the amendment because the bill excludes the possibility of covering up significant shortcomings, dangerous or harmful properties, it says - regardless of whether these properties are subject to examination or other means of verifying their properties, I think this is not enough, and for several reasons. First, because you did not, in any way, rule out the possibility of this member of the law to cover up significant shortcomings, dangerous or harmful properties, because that possibility is not ruled out by saying, "Advertising cannot cover certain shortcomings". On the contrary, yes, advertising can cover up shortcomings. It is often directed at those who, as you say, are the recipients of these advertising messages, are just acting in such a way as to conceal certain dangerous, harmful properties, etc. You, if you wanted to achieve this effect, then you had to say Serbian and say - not by advertising can't be covered up, but by saying - advertising must not be covered up. In that case, you would set up a certain ban on this article 31, and then, if someone breaks that ban, you could sanction it. This provision is a purely declarative character, does not impose any prohibition on anyone and you cannot simply say that you have ruled out the possibility of concealing the deficiencies, dangerous, harmful properties of the product, etc. Whether or not it matters whether certain properties are untested or unknown and whether they are subject to questioning or not at all, according to the ministry, they are obviously not. In the opinion of the SRS, of course it is. I'll give you just a few examples in an attempt to explain why it's important. First of all, the drugs. You know that certain substances that can have a positive effect on certain diseases, or on improving health, can have extremely bad effects on the human organism, as regards some other diseases or conditions. So it's not enough to say just that the properties of a particular drug, which are related to one part, are untested and unknown and that therefore every responsibility, with whoever advertises it, is removed. It's necessary that someone, if they want to, examine all the properties, so eventually, if there are certain side effects and side effects, says - yes, the cure will help with this, but there are harmful properties, and that's that and that. So someone who's gonna use it, whether it's a product or a service, has a chance to choose and say, "I'll take this or I won't take this." Furthermore, a good example could be genetically modified soybeans. It's slowly becoming a growing problem in our society. You have seen that some orians, where genetically modified soybeans have been planted, the government has not, and it is thousands of hectares, managed to destroy; some, of course, have, but around Belgrade say that Chume has more than 300 hectares with genetically modified soybean, the US firm "Monsanto" imports that genetically modified strain through Minister Ivana Dulic-Markovic. The effects have not yet been fully tested. So they can fall under this if they're untested or unknown. What is also very important, the harmful consequences will not affect anyone who uses genetically modified soybean. He'll hit the next generation. I think that because of this and many other cases, in which abuse could occur, it would be very important to establish an advertiser's obligation that and some properties, which can be subjected to under-examined or unknown, would mean that the user has an obligation to warn the service, product or anything else about these properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19329	Anyone else want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19330	Article 31 is a logical continuation of what is started in Article 30, which is prohibitions relating to untrue, comparable and deceitful advertising. The amendment requires the addition of Article 31 in the words "untested and unknown", referring to product characteristics. I need to draw your attention to whether or not you're going to adopt this amendment, it's actually inadmissible. If you were going to write this and be an imperative norm, which prohibits something or prescribes a rule of conduct, a mandatory rule of conduct, or something that goes as a mandatory ban, then in the provisions on sanctions it should be stated. What follows this article, since it obviously has the character of a ban, is, say, Article 109 where you prescribed the violations, so that article 109 says, "The fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if... "When you say "legal person if," see point 16, "announcing covers essential shortcomings." Who's that? Does the manufacturer of that product, the one who made the video, the commercial, the one who played it on his own media? What kind of legal face is that? Whom are you going to punish under Article 109 paragraph 1 point 16)? What situation is possible? It is possible that the manufacturer of non-alcoholic refreshing drinks made the product, in accordance with the rules governing the content of the declaration, gave the composition, wrote that there is also an additive in the family "E" from 310 to 319 or further, and you read some medical journals, so you can see that the additives 309, 310, 311, 319 are health-threatening. Or, for the producers of permanent meat processing, where everything and everything is inserted -- parizers, sausages, sausages, etc., where there are additives, where there are also additives on the declaration recorded that additive and there is some scientific research that has proved that they are cancer inducers, etc. You didn't cover it. I'm going to give you a concrete example just for this article 31, not getting into who the culprit is -- is he who made the product, is he who made the video or the one who broadcasts the video? On TV we watch one commercial where two villages, sausages, race in something. Then a drop falls and cleans that pot. Minister, take that detergent and put on a drop, see if you can clean the pot. Who cheats on consumers? You can watch it every day. It's been spinning around here for years. Do you have any sanctions? If this law had been passed, who you would have punished here -- the RTS that plays that video; it's no longer a commercial but a video, because we have commercials that last 40 seconds, and that's no longer commercial. Are you going to punish the agency that made that video? This gives some property to a product that does not have a product. That's what everybody's looking at and they don't care. A few days ago, you had an affair with an ad man saying my clinic is treating lung cancer so cheap that it's below the price of drugs being used, and I guarantee, if a man doesn't heal, I'll pay back the money. It's funny and tragic, and that's what's going on with us, he's still put the clinic next to the monastery. In Article 31, and if you were the best at how you imagined it, and you didn't have to adopt this amendment, I'm telling you that you don't know who you're going to punish. We had in the 2002 election the case that CeSID planted some posters on Labus posters. A poster, with a beard. They pulled him out at the end, and CeSID gave him one in one color, and another in another color. Who are you here to punish? It says, "an advertising cannot cover essential defects, dangerous or harmful product properties." Please, whoever advertises you almost makes you use a product, you buy a product, and that product is life-threatening, it's a crime. Take article 109 and see, "a fine of 100,000 to millions of dinars will be fined for a violation of a legal person if 16) advertising covers essential shortcomings". Whoever committed the offence, whoever made the product, whoever did the commercial, whoever put the commercial on and who got the product, that's clear to you. How many women lost their hair because of those hair preparations. Who are you going to punish here? There isn't. Since you haven't prescribed who you're going to punish, you're free to pass the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19331	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stefan Zankov. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Stefan Zankov has submitted an amendment to Article 34, where he seeks to place a decimal instead of a point and add a "military deadline". To make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I will read: "Advertising is forbidden calling for the boycott of another person, interrupting or preventing the establishment of a relationship with another person", and we add "and a military deadline". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the state of Serbia has suffered a lot of damage just as in one of the laws that this part has not been incorporated. You remember how much some of the barjackers of democracy called for a boycott of mobilization, for a boycott of military service, for a boycott of going to the battlefield to defend the country, remember how many of them went to the battlefields, so the whole units went back and remained empty. A long time ago it was to be introduced into one of the laws and this clause. Thank God, in September, military officials' response is higher and satisfying, at least that's what some of my friends who are military faces tell me, but in several previous calls 20% responded. The children went to wipe out the children in Zvečanska, to wipe out the immobilized and old in hospitals, to suck up the grass at Lazarevic Hospital, and they did not go to serve a military deadline, just seduced by this kind of propaganda. I therefore believe that this amendment should be adopted. By the way, I'll also read the explanation why the government doesn't accept the amendment. The government does not accept the amendment because the issue is covered by the amendment subject to other laws relating to the security of the state. It's not covered. Do not enforce those laws even though it is covered, and how you will implement when two-thirds of you from this ruling coalition thinks you should not serve a military term, that you do not need to respond to the defence, but that is the problem of whoever has collected the coalition. Besides, now that the Northman blows, leaves fall, this government falls, new elections will come, and we'll do different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19333	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19334	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 36 speaks of advertising pornography. My colleague Ljiljana Nestorović and I have submitted an amendment proposing that this article be changed 36th and that it reads: "Advertising with pornographic content is forbidden, as is advertising whose content is not pornographic, which points to pornography, except in the pornographic press. The pornographic printing on the front and last pages cannot contain a pornographic advertising message." For people who speak Serbian, the word "hot-line" means nothing. If something in Serbian literary language is unknown, then it should not be found in any law proposed by the Serbian government, as well as on a television programme at any time of the day and night. However, the intensity of the legislator of this law was to sort of regulate a bad phenomenon by the proposed law. That's good, but only by banning it on TV and radio, and leaving it only in the pornographic press, where it's the only place it really belongs. In this regard, we have proposed an amendment that sets out this proposed Article 36 of the Law differently, in a way that is similar to a serious country, which will and must develop some other values, those values that lead to prosperity, and the "hot-line" is certainly not. The government of the Republic of Serbia, in its explanation, says: "The amendment is not accepted because Article 36. The bill was agreed with the largest number of interested persons to whom the law applies, and the proposed amendment would introduce an amendment that significantly deviates from the agreed solution." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I ask you to explain to the MPs and to the general public who you agreed with the greatest veil of this law? What is the largest number of interested parties, why did you reject this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19335	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milan Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19336	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as many legal projects you have adopted here and adopted, and with which you boast that they are European, that they lead us towards joining the European Union, that they are democratic, and that you are also passing this law, which in my opinion is not applicable and will not even be applied in practice. As for broadcasting and many legal projects, which we Serbian radicals have criticised, they have not been applied to practice until today, even in part, not to mention the recent Law on Higher Education. But I am taking the opportunity to highlight here an absurd and what the Minister of Education did when he decided to introduce the Bosnian language into the plains of Raska area, or in Serbia. Then we Serbian radicals said that it cannot be applied in practice, because it has not matured, that it is something that does not exist, but unfortunately because of your stubbornness or adolescence to someone, you have done it. What's going on today? You haven't thought about the consequences. Today in the Raška area, in almost all cities, there is a real confusion about the introduction of the Bosnian language. Namely, they are now polling children, both Serbs and Muslims, who will learn the Bosnian language, but we wonder who will teach the Bosnian language. That's the main problem. These days dozens of teachers call me Muslims and Serbs and ask me how to teach Bosnian when I'm not professional, it doesn't exist, I didn't learn that. Unfortunately, the Ministry is silent and the Minister of Education is silent. He did not prescribe a rule at all, or it is not prescribed who is expert in teaching the Bosnian language. This caused great confusion and damage to the citizens of Serbia, especially those living in the area of old Raska. So this law, a legal project, looks like a courtship to those from the EU, you want to copy something or you want to pin it on someone. This decision taken at the Ministry of Education, or Minister of Education, was extorted. He did it overnight, not thinking about the consequences. It is likely that the alliance with Sulejman Ugljanin was then concluded, or perhaps these two MPs were still at the talks at Kostunica, and then the secret alliance was formed which, behold, these days and showed that these two MPs were supporting this government that you are doing with the difficult majority. I warn you from the authorities that Bajram Omeragic and Esad Djudžević will be much harder to you than Meho, Ljiljana, and Covic, and Orlic, because they know how to establish the market. It'll be a lot harder for you. The consequences are normal for Serbia's citizens to suffer. When it comes to this amendment that I have submitted to Article 36, I just want to say what is important, that when we analyse our amendments, the minister and the one who wrote this law probably as soon as he sees that this amendment to the SRS is automatically rejected without any explanation. You'll only see what we've been looking for with our amendment in Article 36. We asked to add the word "and text messages" in the second attitude. I'll read the second attitude for the citizens, and you'll understand. "A announcement whose content is not pornographic, which points to pornography, (hot-line, which Meho said we should use Serbian words, because the Serb will not understand this, an advertising message for the pornographic press, films) is banned." We're just adding "SMS messages". What would that mind if it were included in this Article 36? We would simply improve this member and make a great contribution and protect our youth from pornography and all that is happening. We asked, further, that the exception to TV and radio programs instead of 0.00 hours starts from 01.00 hours and lasts until 05.00 hours. We want to move the time one hour ahead to protect the youth again with this amendment. Minister, re-analyze this amendment and what we are looking for here and you will see that this amendment is fully complemented by Article 36, which is also in the interest of the citizens of Serbia, especially our youth. What's interesting here? It is interesting that you stated when you rejected this amendment of mine, as contained in point 3. I'm going to read article 3 of article 36 and you're going to see that he has nothing to do with what we're looking for. Article 36(3) says: "Advertising is forbidden which refers to pornography in specialized TV and radio programmes for minors, as well as in TV and radio programs broadcast in the time period set out in Article 2 and intended for minors. "This is the only part you predicted for minors. But let's take the youngsters or the youth between the ages of 14 and 16, 17, whether we're going to conduct to them now which channel they're going to watch and what they're going to follow at that time. So it's not fully contained in this answer, it's summerly responsible, so superficial. Especially to point out in your explanation of this area where you say - advertising is also prohibited by calling for a boycott. I can imagine you ministers and that party that you belong to now forbid you to call for a boycott, because you are known for calling for a boycott. Whether it was an electricity subscription, whether it was a boycott and whether it was an invitation for Serbian citizens to defend the country to Serbia. Mostly all the boycotts that were in the past period were for that. Now that you've gotten your hands on the authorities, you're banning the boycott. I should not, as an opposition MP, call the citizens of Serbia, go out publicly to say, "Don't pay for the subscription of television or electricity." I'd probably get arrested. Not to talk about advertising unauthorized symbols. I come from restrictions on advertising pornography and things like that. I remember that before October 5th, the entire DOS was used by advertising and some symbols that were not Serbian at all. Whether they are sectarian, and they are tolerated today, especially in Belgrade. I remember you advertised to Sabre and force, that you were constantly showing the revolution the five-eyed, burning of the Assembly, etc., until what happened happened and then during the Sabre you shut it down and stopped broadcasting. I call on you, MPs, to include this amendment, and not only this amendment, but all the amendments of the SRS, in order to improve this legislative project. Otherwise, it's worth nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19337	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. National MP Meho Omerovic is known to speak concisely and briefly, and do not interfere with him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19338	Thank you for reminding me. Displaying the use of force is part of which is referred to by Article 37 of the proposed law. It's very short, so I'm going to quote it, "No advertising is forbidden, which unwarrantedly shows the use of force or the threat of force." My colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic and I have suggested that the word "unjustified" be deleted, because it is too high in this place and without that word, the member of the law is absolutely clear. It's not at all possible for us to imagine justifiable use of force. I ask an open question, Mr. Minister, when is the use of the advertising force justified? We've never seen SDP, but you obviously don't listen to us. Mr. Minister, when is the use of the advertising force justified?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-07-0.u19339	Since we're really getting close to the end of today's work, it's tomorrow at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 95 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that more than one third of the MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Davidovic, Vojkan Tomic, Slobodan Pajovic, Velimir Stanojevic and Dejan Rajcic in the morning. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF AUTHORITY (specificities) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a search on the amendment to Article 37, which was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerović. People's MP Meho Omerovic participated in the debate on the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 40th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Zoran Antic. The government and the Trade and Tourism Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
