ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18948	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am pleased to have before the Government today at the opening of this debate in the shortest presentation of the content of a very important law on a new, missing institution in our legal system, it is the institution of the Ombudsman. We are facing today a law on the protection of citizens, which should be introduced into our legal system by that long-awaited and now finally fulfilled institution of the Ombudsman. The citizen's protector should represent an independent state body, which would have the task of protecting citizens' rights and, on the other hand, to control the work of state administration authorities in the Republic of Serbia. The ombudsman's basic task will be to prevent the self-will, illegal and incorrect conduct of the government's authority. So, by passing this law, we are fulfilling a long-standing commitment to our citizens to obtain a democratic institution that will protect their rights, and on the other hand we are introducing the Republic of Serbia into the order of those democratic states that know this institution. The number of these countries is not small. At this point, there are over 130 countries in the world that have this institution. In short, this Ombudsman institute is fully, in our view as a proposing, adapted to the needs of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The very name of this new institution in our legal order is adapted to the terminology that fully corresponds to the essence of this institution. So it's about the patron of the citizens. The name corresponds to the basic task, which is that this institution protects citizens' rights. When drawing up the drafts, and later laying down the bill, we have had some difficulties in creating this institution, which are related to certain constitutional constraints. These constitutional restrictions were an obstacle to the institution of protection of citizens or ombudsman having all those features, as they may have developed democratic countries. What should essentially be the look of the Ombudsman Institute in the form of citizens' protectors in Serbia, the government showed in its draft Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted to the Committee of the Constitutional Affairs last June. Because of these constitutional restrictions, we've had some problems that are related to two institutes. One is about the way in which the Ombudsman is elected, the inability to make different majority than other decisions are made because of the constitutional restriction of decisions on the choice of a person who will act as protectors of citizens, which is so called. a simple majority, most of the total number of MPs present. We have tried to remove this constitutional deficit, because of the authority of this new institution's independence with us, through the proposal phase, through a qualified majority that is necessary to provide itself in the Committee which is the candidate for the holder of this function, which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We also had one constitutional restriction in regulating the specificity of such an institution, which is – the right of legislative initiative. The Constitution explicitly states who has the right to legislative initiatives. The protection of citizens cannot be the bearer of that right, but we have tried to give it maximum rights to replace the lack of a direct legislative initiative, through some solutions that allow it to address the Government directly, i.e. through the MPs themselves. As far as the control in question is concerned, it is essential – the regularity and legality of the work of the state administration authority in Serbia. Therefore, the Institute of Protectors will control infringements of the rights of citizens, which have been committed by acts, actions or inaction by the Authority of the Administration, provided that it is a violation of the Republic's rules. The introduction of the citizens' institution will finally end in the Republic of Serbia the entire system of institution's introduction, as we will now win this institution at the republic's level. Previously, as early as 2002, the Law on Local Self-Government opened the possibility that local municipalities and cities would introduce ombudsman institutions in the image of citizens' defenders, which unfortunately did not take advantage of a large number of municipalities and cities. A year and a half ago, the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, using the rights it received by the Law on the Trust of Certain Jurisdictions of APV, etc. the omnibus by law, also obtained by its decision formed a province ombudsman. Of course, I want to be fully open, it is a very big thing for democratic political life here in Serbia that we are introducing this institution in Serbia, but it should not, of course, have excessive expectations, at least at this moment, when we are stabilising the state and its institutions, for the simple reason that the Ombudsman Institute represents, in this image of the protection of citizens in our country, only one upgrade to all those control mechanisms that already exist in our legal system and which have to protect the legality of the work of the state administration. The expectation of our citizens' protectors, which we can have at the moment of the start of the development of this institution, could best be characterized by a sentence from the final consideration of one of the first monographs published by us in 1969, by the late Academyman Misa Jovičić, where it is said to represent the fine, final layer of plaster that is placed on the already built legality building. So our task is to strengthen and fully complete the construction of the legality of the work of the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, and this institution of the protection of citizens will only allow us to do it more fully. There is a solid number of very high quality amendments on this bill. I have read these amendments, and I am convinced that according to this law, the relationship between all MPs was extremely positive. All amendments are welcome. There were no amendments, as used to be, to delete a member. The amendments were very constructive. The government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted some of these amendments. Today I will be, during this principle debate, to the end together with you, as well as during the discussion of the details of the day when we discuss the amendments. As so far, given the arguments put forward here, I am ready to jointly correct this law and contribute to the building of the legality and work of the state administration together in the Republic of Serbia. I thank you, and I will pay attention to your debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18949	Only one notification, the authorised representative of the SRS, on this agenda point, is MP Zoran Krasic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a word from MP Marko Krstin, authorised representative of G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18950	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are before the adoption of a law that is very important for the establishment of a rule of law, legal awareness and strengthening of social discipline, on the one hand, through the protection of citizens' rights in the process against state authorities. It is a completely new institution, which will be subject to constitutional law, I am absolutely sure of it. It is a system of self-control of the work of state authorities, which is known in Europe and which in this legal system is a newspaper. Let me point out, for example, Denmark has had it since 1954. The very term was defined by the International Bar of Law in 1974. He insists on an institution that will be overly established by the Constitution, law or parliament's decision. The very importance of the act and of the body that chooses it, or which determines its powers, shows the importance of this institution. The institution must be managed by an independent high-ranking officer, as seen again from his jurisdiction, his relationship with other state bodies, from his independent, independent and sufficient financial status, etc., which is manifested through this law. Furthermore, his status is seen through responsibility only to the law and parliament. Its main task is to receive and consider complaints from citizens who are dissatisfied with the work of state authorities and civil servants, with the authority to verify, recommend measures, publicly advertise, demand the resolution of officials and, ultimately, increasingly in parallel law initiating amendments to certain rules and before the Constitutional Court to initiate the procedure for certain regulations to comply with the Constitution, i.e. to determine whether they are constitutional or not. In this direction is our law, it contains enough provisions, regardless of which it is a new institution, which allows the institution to later de lege pherenda to receive some of the other elements that this institution already has in other countries, where 50 years or less exists. What would be the other elements we can expect in the future? It is particularly important for citizens' protectors to give citizens information and advice on certain cases, to apply to the Constitutional Court. Then, he intervenes in courts on certain ecultaneous cases of human rights violations. To file charges against officials and, of course, different forms of legal initiatives. So far, the application of this institute is very important – although we cannot rely on this application, except in the province of Vojvodina, where there is an ombudsman, the truth is shorter – and that, in addition to the complaints of the citizens, whom the Ombudsman is acting on, that is, the protection of citizens, is very important to his function under official duty, which allows that when he has certain knowledge of the rights of citizens, he intervenes, regardless of whether the citizen has spoken to him. Furthermore, the practice in the work of this authority has shown that the competent authority should, rightly, be extended, through administrative procedure and procedure of public authority, and to judicial proceedings. We are, of course, at the beginning of the institution's establishment and this is expected in the future, where the execution of the court deadlines would be controlled. So, if the authorities that exercise judicial authority, within the deadlines that we've prescribed here, are doing their job, it's so-called. Justice administration. Then, to control the police's actions in certain matters and procedures in front of prison institutions, which we have, in part, prescribed by our law. There is also the need to institutionalise the obligation to keep citizens informed of the course of the procedure, especially its completion. I think that until now, in the protection of citizens' rights, the possibility of not treating citizens' rights as prescribed by the law, and especially not within the deadlines, precisely because there was no institutional form of protection for citizens when the deadline for resolving a law was not respected. So the citizen could simply knock on the door, beg for something to be done, but it had no consequence of ending the case within the time limit. On the other hand, that one who does not, means a civil servant, is no longer in a position to behave in this way, which means to be relieved of the function he performs. It is also necessary, and this law has done so, to establish an obligation to report to the Assembly, which should be according to certain standards. It means that this congregation is informed of how and how this extremely significant function is accomplished. This law respected the possibility of a legislative initiative, which I was already talking about. It is very important to inform the public about violations of the rights of citizens and the measures taken at the time. It's one form of prevention that the public defender should have. That's what I'd stick with. I think it is very important that what the public defender finds unfairly not only is someone responsible and an initiative is launched to resolve workers or officials, but to inform the public so that such a case is not repeated in the future. Moreover, it is also very important to strengthen the preventive function of citizens' protectors. I'll also look back on some legal solutions. I believe that the law has entered to some extent some of the questions that may come from an act that is the beginning and you wouldn't expect it, and that's good. In some things, the law could have gone into more trouble, but the new law is, and we'll have time to check its applicability, and to apply some of it in progress and change it. The law is based on the control of the government's work. Practically, it is an administrative procedure and, of course, the authorities dealing with the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, although in one part we are also able to, which is very important, I would draw attention to, that the protection of citizens can intervene in institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, which includes the right to speak in private with the person who is on the basis of a sentence, and even with the person who is deprived of freedom by other authorities, means from the court or internal affairs, which is a very significant institute and which allows citizens a far better level of protection than he has been to date, just in situations where the citizen is deprived of freedom without being able to contact. So that's what attention needs to be drawn to, and that's a very significant step forward. It is very important to say that the elector is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as a committee that is a constituent for certain matters, such as the Constitution, the state and the key things for the establishment of the rule of law. It should be noted that committee sessions can attend, I hope it will be practice, candidates, so that they can express their views on what and how they intend to do, which is very important for the choice of democracy and the choice of the best candidate. It is also a significant restriction that the same person cannot be selected more than twice consecutively. It is also a very important provision that requires exceptional expertise from candidates who would perform this function, that is Article 5. The bill requires 10 years of experience in legal affairs and concerns the protection of citizens' rights. I think this deadline is appropriate, regardless of some amendments that asked for a reduction in that deadline. I believe that I am the rank of civil protection must be such that he, by his professional authority and, above all, with his persuasion, influences the protection of citizens' rights. It is a very important provision of Article 9, which determines the incompatibility of functions with any other professional activity or function, so that a person who is a candidate cannot be a member of political organisations, means he cannot be a member, and that at the moment of his election all other functions cease. It says, "They have to stop," it might be more appropriate to say they stop. So, the moment he was chosen, it all stops, of those functions with which it's incompatible, and it's incompatible with all functions. There are also very important provisions on immunity, that's Article 10. On the Justice and Administration Committee, we intervened with a constructive amendment to that provision, that the immunity rights of the protection of citizens are expressed in full in proportion to the function they perform, meaning neither more nor less. The immunity of citizens' protectors is necessary. In the bill itself, he was somewhat more suspiciously expressed, so it was necessary to intervene with the amendment, which was accepted by the proposing representative. I would also like to welcome the provision of article 18. The bill, which allows for the legal initiative of citizens' protectors when it comes to the provisions of the laws that the citizen's protector encountered in application, which do not comply with domestic law, above all the Constitution, and with international law, which is accepted in the state of Serbia. It is also very important that, when the public defender submits a legal initiative to the Government, it should not only end on the government's decision, but in any case inform the Assembly and the amendments intervened on the draft law, that this initiative should end in the Assembly. It means that the Assembly should be informed of the government's position, and on the initiative of the citizens' protectors to change certain regulations. Also, in Article 19, we have very significant powers that will be incorporated into the Constitution, because there is also a place for the protection of citizens to launch proceedings before the Constitutional Court in order to establish and coordinate the legality and constitutionality of laws and other general acts. Also, I'd like to draw attention to article 20 of this law. So far, we have not had an institution outside the specific authority of the administration, which could deal in this way with those officials and managers who do not comply with the law in their proceedings, do wrongly and violate citizens' rights. According to Article 20. The bill gives authority to protect the citizens to publicly insist on the word "public", it is very good, recommends the resolution of the officials. I hope that this public recommendation will contain the reasons and that this will have a positive, i.e. instructive effect on other officials and government officials not to commit such injuries, as a general prevention, and as an individual prevention, that this official by the authority that has appointed it will be resolved. It is, in my opinion, one of the key provisions of this law, which is a guarantee against self-will. In this assembly, we have passed a Law on the availability of information. We have one important provision here, which is Article 21, which obliges the authorities of the administration to co-operate with the public defender and give him all the necessary information. Without this co-operation, which even, according to the law, goes so far in detail, which is good, that includes the availability of rooms, there is no possibility that the protecter of citizens can act to the fullest extent and that he really achieves what he exists as an institution. As I have already mentioned in advance, Article 29 lays down the right of citizens' protectors to join institutions for committing criminal sanctions, as well as other institutions where someone has been detained. So, where it's not about a judicial conviction, where it's detained, or deprived of liberty, with the right to speak in private. It is a very big restriction of self-will, which can happen and happen, we are witnesses of that, and in such institutions, having above all in mind that they serve to limit freedom, but in this restriction of freedom, it really shouldn't go beyond what the Criminal Penal Code, Criminal Prosecution Act, Violation Act, and so on. It is also an important provision of Article 24, where the right to intervene citizens' protectors is unreserved only to appeal to citizens, which would be a consensual concept, a restrictive concept. He allows the protection of citizens, and I think he's asking him to follow up on what's going on and intervene on his own initiative. I hope that the report of our future public defender will contain more and more of those initiatives that he himself has launched. I have to tell you, in the public prosecutor's practice, it's very rare to use an ex-office. It means that when he finds out that something has been done to initiate the procedure, he initiates the procedure, which is to apply for an investigation, which is not good and shows one of the three-way systems, especially in that part where it could be much more efficient. I hope that this criticism will come to our public prosecutors, and on the other hand it will affect candidates, i.e. people who will act as protectors of citizens, that they really pay great attention to themselves to initiate a procedure where legal conditions exist. I think the highlight of such an institution, including the prosecution's institutions, would be that it is not waiting for citizens to report but that citizens themselves are being protected by being an appropriate official, who is responsible for it, has noted it. I must say, in principle, we cannot be satisfied with the way in which citizens' rights are protected or in criminal proceedings, because the damaged has very dubious rights. This law should meet with the rights and such people being strengthened. But I'm talking about it being a de-lege of pherenda, because we still don't have intervention in civil protection proceedings, and I think the next amendment to the law must be on that when the institution is put on its feet. And this assembly has passed a series of such laws – on family relations, on litigation, on executive procedure – where more and more deadlines are being handed down to the actions of acting officials and judges. In order for these deadlines to be controlled, one such patron needs to be controlled. In the end, I believe that for the work of such a high-ranking official, with high responsibilities, powers and rights, it is very important to ensure his funding, so that it does not depend, or at least it does not depend solely on the government and the way the government looks at his work. If they did, then he could really be denied a series of his powers and I'm afraid he might become unnecessary. This law came from being a special part of the budget in which these funds will be provided. I believe that de lege pherenda means that for future law, as well as for the judiciary, it is necessary to provide for a specific budget, which could then be expressed in a different way, because through its adoption and the report on how the Assembly's funds could be used, among other things, to control the work of such a responsible civil servant, such as the protecter of citizens. Furthermore, I support the initiative to ensure an adequate level of salary and that this level of salary is provided by law, because I think it is precisely a function that is extremely high and that will allow our citizens, not only because the institution exists, but in the everyday functioning of that institution, to create an impression that the state will not only collect income but also worry about how the rights of citizens are realized. If the state were to become a public service, which would take care of the rights of citizens, where the application of coercion would really come only at the end and with the control of such a competent authority. The G17 Group of MPs will support this law. We have submitted a number of amendments that the promoter has accepted and I think we have had very correct co-operation so far in other management laws. These amendments will be corrected and I think there are all conditions to adopt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18951	Do any of the other representatives want a word? Here you go. Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18952	If this institution that is promoted by this bill is that final malter, the final layer on the legal system of a state, then it must first be realized that this is too premature for us. We have a problem with the foundation. For several years, the need for a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been discussed. I am not going into whether or not it needs to be and how much to comply with what was done in 2003, and this is called the Constitutional Charter of the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, including the part concerning the declaration, i.e. the Charter of Human and Minority Rights and Civil Liberties. The basic problem with this bill is, I think the minister made a good point at first, which is problematic, and I say there is almost no constitutional basis for adopting one of these laws. The fact that there are some international institutions promoting the Ombudsman requires that it be formed as an organ in all countries does not necessarily mean any coercion, because the constitutional basis does not exist with us. Every general act, including the law passed by the National Assembly, must have its basis in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The minister suggested in an opening statement that the constitutional basis is problematic, that it may not be there, but that there is another obligation that requires the need for such a bill to be found on the agenda. Immediately, in the first member of this bill, there are problems. It says, "This law establishes the Protector of Citizens as an independent state body." Is he a state organ? Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, state authorities are: National Assembly, President of the Republic, Government, ministries as bodies of state administration, courts and prosecutors, National Bank. There is no way to predict such a state body, as proposed by this bill. What is the characteristic of the state organs? The characteristics of the state authorities are that, whether they adopt certain acts or take certain actions, they must be based, initiated by the authorities, supplied by some power, acts are binding and that, in the event of the non-application of these acts, there is the possibility of using other means of coercion, whose authority, i.e. the state authority, is carrying out its will under the Constitution and the law. If you look at the responsibilities of this public defender, if you look at the form in which he decides to carry out his activities, then you will see that these are recommendations, initiatives, something he doesn't commit. Not only is it not binding, but it is something that does not have a mechanism that guarantees that the decision of the public defender will be implemented. It is inevitably concluded that it is an NGO official of the government, which is halfway between the Assembly and the government. Or, let's have a little fun, and let's say -- a little more official Natasa Kandic and nothing more. The characteristics of the state authority are precisely that the acts brought by the state authority have binding power and that, unless they access voluntary enforcement, there is the possibility of using the state's coercion, because that is how the government is manifested. The state authorities are the authorities. An independent state body, a public defender who does not have that power, its acts do not have that weight, inevitably suggests that it is not a state body. How could he be a state body with these powers? Only on condition that it is a constitutional category, that the Constitution provides for such powers and in this way, but we have a problem that our Constitution does not have such a provision. Then the conclusion is that before the foundation was defined, it started with the malternization. I'm a little paraphrasing the importance attached to the public defender. There's also likely to be a dispute over whether this is the real name. Perhaps I would prefer the name – the national tribunal, some say the Ombudsman. I think there's an amendment that also requires a change in the name of this bill. Maybe at this point it doesn't matter that much. What is also being promoted by Article 1 is that it protects citizens' rights and controls the work of government authorities. If we do one analysis that protects all the rights of citizens in this country, citizens' rights are protected by the National Assembly, the Government, the Ministry, local self-government, the Public Prosecutor's Office, legal assistance services in municipalities where they are organised, citizens' rights protects the law. So if it were to break down into atoms, we would come to a large number of institutions dealing with the protection of citizens' rights, but in a very specific way, through insistence on constitutionality and legality. These are all some institutions where it is prescribed, within the scope of jurisdiction, and protection, if not positively, then negatively, through the ban on discrimination or the threat of individual human rights. So, in addition to these many institutions, which view human rights in different ways, I use human rights as the broadest concept, but also the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, there is now another so-called. Protector, but unlike all those that I have cited, which are parts of some institutions, which not only have authority, but their decision also has the appropriate weight, so that they can demand the forced implementation of that decision, we are now making this floating glazing glazing, which needs the power of authority to act something. Imagine, usually these jobs are done by famous human rights fighters. If we take these human rights fighters of ours, you've robbed all of them. Can anyone imagine being the patron of the citizens, such as Natasa Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Vojin Dimitrijevic, one of Vodanic's. That's impossible. It is known at the outset whose rights would be protected, how, how, and how to raise the noise. You'd be making noises, maybe because of some newspapers, but because of those over there from Doljevac or Zubi's stream of silence, it wouldn't have been heard there was a violation of any rights. I'm paraphrasing this a little bit, because probably the congregation majority has the power to push through this law, even though we radicals are opposed to this bill. If most pass the law, the law is binding, so it will be binding on everything, it is no wonder, but I warn that with such an aproximately proposed future solutions – who could be the protector, it is better not to pass it, because it depends essentially on the authority of that person. If everything depends on the authority of that person, then you know how the law will be implemented – pure volunteerism, the pure will of an individual. In some places, especially where the protection of citizens is required to intervene before or during a procedure, it can be very dangerous and problematic. Furthermore, the control of the work of the government's authority. That control is only possible through individual cases where citizens indicate that there has been a violation of a right, but that control listed here cannot be institutional.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18953	Are you using another 10 minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18954	Yeah. That the Protector of the Citizens is officially in control of the state administration. For this there is a administrative inspection, which controls the work of the state authorities in the sense of whether the General Administrative Procedure Act is respected, as the basic law of officials working in the state administration, and the material regulations that are also applied in individual cases. Human rights are protected by a lawyer, and I don't think anyone can be more professional than a lawyer in the protection of individual rights. Take the situation now that the lawyer has been in one administrative procedure at the request of the citizens, who hired him to be his attorney. The first-degree procedure, second-degree, came to an administrative dispute, completed, addressed the public defender and pointed to an irregularity. What kind of irregularity can appear there? Can she show up? A judicial trial, even a court case, was closed, although it was purely administrative in the first part. The final administrative dispute and now the public defender eventually finds something there. Who, who does not have the authority's attributes, regardless of being said to be a state body, has no binding power, there are no mechanisms for it to be implemented to the end, so let it be a simple recommendation, to question the Supreme Court's decision in the administrative dispute. I took this example on purpose because it is probably 99.9% of the area followed by the protection of citizens, primarily the authorities of the administration and those of public enterprises doing entrusted jobs, which also apply administrative procedures. We have a situation, if one standard is formed and it has been applied for years as a legal interpretation, now as a public defender, and as one of those I just mentioned earlier, it concludes that there is something wrong with the NN case, so the whole legal position is changing, so where those people who have been exercising their rights for 20 years based on one legal attitude and one interpretation of the relevant member. That nice frosting is really dangerous. We are not going to talk about the specific weather problems that exist between individual attitudes, we will discuss this in detail. I ask the question, then, what is the National Office for? She sends some letters, some references, there's a B92 commercial from the National Office of the President, and everything that hasn't been passed for the judges or for the presidents of the courts, the directors of the office in some places. One candidate for the president of the court, failed, swore before the Justice Committee that he had nothing to do with the parties, nothing, and then the director of the National Office in some place down in southern Serbia. That's how we're gonna get away with protecting our citizens. I'm simply afraid that this number of citizens' protectors is losing our respect for the rights and freedom of man and citizen, so we're getting these women in black, white, green, yellow, no matter what color, and they're giving us days of lectures on some televisions, they're convincing us of something that neither existed, nor could exist. I think this is really premature. The way we choose, we have submitted some amendments to the way we choose, we believe that the choice of protection of citizens is not in line with the Constitution, above all in the part that proposes candidates. On the Justice Committee, we tried to explain our objection, it's a principled nature. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia makes it clear who can propose a person to choose for a function. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow the number of proposings to be extended. For the first time, it was done with the Committee on Finance, when the Croatian National Bank Act was prescribed, and it was said that the Finance Committee is proposing a governor in the absence of a clearer provision. And we said -- if you're going to do something, accept some solution that was in the Constitution of the SRJ, where the president of the SRJ proposes a governor. The Assembly Committee cannot as a working body have the status of a proposing officer. Then the box opened up, and then it went through the Educational Council, and now, as the law goes, we'll probably get committees as legislators, which is not the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's similar with that oath. Much bigger officials don't take oaths, and this one does. His acts have no weight at all. They have some moral weight, media, but they don't have the weight that means exercising power. In that sense, they were our objections. This bill requires a clear constitutional basis. I must say that this constitutional basis does not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the broader interpretation of the Constitutional Charter and the Charter of Human and Minority Rights cannot come up with a clear attitude and a clear provision that says we should have a special law that regulates this. I must say that the fact that someone is calling for some international contracts to bind us and that it is an integral part of our legal system must always be understood. It can't be taken for granted. If it were to be taken for granted and some solutions were prescribed, then in many places the opposite of our Constitution would be seen, which is still the highest legal act to be respected. We will vote against this bill, no matter what several amendments are accepted by the Committee and the Government's representatives. See what one provision reads, Article 23 says: "The President of the Republic, the President and the members of the Government, the President of the Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court and the officials in the authorities of the administration are required to accept the Protector at his request, no later than 15 days. "I can understand that it exists as a declaration. Of course, both the President of the Republic and the President of the Assembly care if this law is passed, to communicate with the Protector of Citizens. But when a deadline is put in place and an obligation is put into one legal norm, this way the entire Constitution is denied about the independence and independence of those bodies that are listed here. He's denying it. How can we legally prescribe what is required to be done by the President of the Republic or by the Prime Minister, and that does not stand in the Constitution? Let the Rules of Procedure prescribe something, let's make a congregation decision here – anyone who wants to burn is obliged to accept the president within three days before the fire. It's pointless. Don't put such provisions in place. I guess whoever's doing it, one of these functions that's mentioned in Article 23, cares about talking to that man at some point, so he doesn't call him over the papers and through the media. How can we oblige the President of the Assembly that within 15 days he must receive the protection of the citizens, because the citizen's protector has imagined that he should speak to the president. Here we have parallel provisions on reports and other things, where correspondence between the National Assembly is regulated, on the one hand, and the public's protectors, on the other hand, and other institutions and citizens' protectors. I think it's too early, that she didn't get her soul, that there's a lot of things missing. If it goes to this variant with some quasi-budsman, then it is likely that appropriate changes should be made and in a whole series of regulations concerning those institutions that I have said are, by the letter of law and by the Constitution, obliged to take care of the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18955	The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18956	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, the SPS will support the bill on the protection of citizens, for two, per se, for a very good reason. First of all, it's because in the past few years, it's at the time of what's-his-name. democratic authorities have been able to address, impartial institutions and an impartial body to which citizens can address and ask them to protect their rights, indicate these injuries, suggest possible solutions, let alone solve the case. Another reason is that we believe that the establishment of this institution will show up and prove that there are some quasi-institutions in Serbia that allegedly protect human rights or care for citizens, such as the National Office. It will show the emptyness of the establishment of such institutions, and we believe that this will fall in another plan by those NGOs who allegedly advocate respect for human rights, and in their work they are very one-sided, very political-oriented and serve only for the propaganda of certain interests and protection of certain categories of citizens. In fact, we think it's a good thing that the Citizens' Protector is being founded, because since 2000, so to speak, at the time of so-called. The democratic authorities of DOS, even in the case of the Socialists, were several tens of thousands of people who were simply removed from work because of their political belongings. There have been cases of people coming to work and it's just being told that since tomorrow your presence here is not desirable. Believe me, we couldn't help these people with any legal means. Simply, justice was blind to such cases. I say, we support this law, despite the restrictions it brings, because such an institution is an ombudsman. Namely, the ombudsman was introduced in 1809, so nearly two centuries ago, and the bloom had occurred in the last decade of the 20th century. There is no reason that if there are more than 130 countries in the world, such an institution will not be established in Serbia as well. Apart from the ombudsmans at the state level, at the level of the province, certain regions, municipalities, there are data that say that ombudsmans are also established for universities, hospitals, ombudsmen for different areas, which says it still has its own sense of existence. When I said restrictions, it is known that its operation, primarily of a moral nature, is known that there are restrictions that make its possibilities limited, that its interventions do not have a legally binding force. When looking at its operation, it comes down to warning, apparition, opinion, proposals and initiatives. But, and as it is, we think it's better if it exists than it isn't. There should be institutions established by law, I hope that it will find a place in the future Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because when there are no official institutions, then those quasi-institutions are placed for the purpose of a political option. I'd like to say a few things that, in my opinion, show purpose and justify the purpose of adopting this law. Here's a few examples. If any of you have been following the situation in Kosovo and Metohija since 2000 and so on, you could see that the reports of the Ombudsman for Kosovo and Metohija, Mr Mark Novicki, were stronger, by content, by argument and by what he said in those reports, than any report was, for example, the Co-ordination Centre for Kosovo and Metohija, let alone the DOS Government at the time. If you have read the news reports, you could see the situation in Kosovo and Metohija or at least some conclusion could be made about what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. Our state authorities have been silent. Well, at least in the reports, that man tried to move things and show things the way they are. He was talking about crimes, kidnappings, murders, unhappiness of UNMIK, disrespect for Resolution 1244. At the same time, our state authorities were silent. No one could have mentioned the word terrorism, no one could have mentioned the word murder. It all came down to the so-called. isolated incidents. There was simply a plot of silence at the state level on the subject. The Ombudsman, for example, showed the meaning of his existence. Of course, his ability to operate was limited, so in that case the restriction existed, but as citizens we could know what was going on and what was going on there. The second thing, I think it's a good thing we're setting up this Ombudsman because the Ombudsman will objectively put in another plan the People's Office of the President of the Republic. It has shown this experience since the new Serbian president was elected and since he established the national office institution, that it has become DS exposures and a place to take care of DS personnel. Apparently, their organisational structure is weak, and their media support is not what they'd like, so there are other alternative ways to say, brainwashing to citizens and trying to get that DS policy as much as possible. I hope that after the establishment of the Ombudsman at the republican level, with decisions already made on the Ombudsman at the level of the province and at the level of local self-government, because the Law on Local Self-Government gives the possibility of establishing the Citizens' Protector, there will be no need for the people's offices. If it were luck and these people's offices could exist, but what the current president of Serbia does shows that these offices have only one meaning – propagating DS policy and nothing else. What the esteemed colleague said earlier, when you don't have any other way of propagating your ideas then through the people's office, nonpartial personnel or called non-nutritional topics get a place in those institutions. And who knows what money is spent on the work of those institutions. We'll see when there's a budget for the next year, which is the funding for the work of the people's offices, because after the adoption of this law on the protection of citizens here in the National Assembly, there's no need for such an institution. If that is the way of affirming one party's policy, then that should be said openly. We Socialists think it's bad, which this law does not contain the possibility of any protection of citizens involved in the work of the judiciary. In fact, materials that we received a year or two ago, as MPs, after experience as ombudsmans from different countries of the world, are given suggestions from certain ombudsmen in order to make it good in the area of justice that the Ombudsmans have certain powers. And experience in our country shows that it would be necessary as well. Because in any case, we respect the independence and independence of the judiciary, but not in the way that individual judges understand it, that it is enough to choose it and that it can, by its own, sometimes very strange criteria that have nothing to do with the law, make justice. You saw this case of a woman being held in a medical institution. Such cases, unfortunately, have in Serbia's judiciary as much as you want, because individual judges have taken their choice and independence and the independence of the judiciary as they want, so that they can do whatever they want and no one can complain. Even by a representative of the High Council of Justice, we complain that we are even talking about justice, even in this respected home. Believe me, if it weren't for nepotism, clans, interests would be the only criterion of relations in the judiciary and the choices of certain people, because MPs know that when a debate on individual human beings starts with individual proposals, things open up to the end, and then you see how personal they are. There are a few things about the content of this law that should be mentioned, but I will only take the opportunity to mention one thing. It is mentioned that the public defender will not act on anonymous reports. I think that's okay. A man needs to be signed if he asks the public's protectors to use his rights. But the next position of that member of the law gives the citizens the opportunity to personally submit an initiative, in relation to the selection of information contained in this play. That's good, because he can handle initiatives on official duty, but if he does it in a certain way disabling his first position. In any case, we think it's a good idea for the citizens' protector to be established in Serbia, because any authority that thinks it's enough for itself, that it's the best, will see very quickly that things don't stand like that and no one should be afraid of any control. It is very important for this institution who will be elected ombudsman, to protect citizens. These human, moral, professional qualities will determine, I am fully convinced, and the fate of this institution. If the people he mentioned are chosen, for example, by his colleague Krasic, then there are neither institutions nor rights nor justice nor anyone who can believe in the protectors of citizens. But if any of the former judges of the Constitutional or Supreme Court, respected professors of the university, people who have dealt with this topic in the past years, who have shown their impartiality, have shown that they are objective, who have shown that they also respect one neutrality regarding the subjects under discussion, I am fully convinced that in this case this institution has a chance to succeed in our political system. I say - there is a chance that it will succeed because in many cases we and the Priors have negatively experienced everything that is proposed. I think it's good that this institution exists. The SPS MPs will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18957	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Please, the word has been given by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, authorised representative of DS-Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18958	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, since the ombudsman institution that can play a very important role in the democratisation of Serbia and the constitution of the state, constitutionality, legality, respect for human rights, is an obligation for each of us to praise the idea of considering the Ombudsman. It is my obligation, as a member of the DS, to notice the incredible transformation of the SPS, which, that is, is the current of October 5th, today supports the proposal to establish an ombudsman institution and advocates certain European standards that were only a few years ago foreign to this political party. These are positive liquids, positive shifts since 5 October, and the DS certainly welcomes them. On the other hand, in a state that does not yet have strong democratic foundations, it is important for the Ombudsman to be truly independent in his work compared to all three branches of government, and to be particularly politically independent. If an institution that is completely new, very unfounded, and not in the Constitution of Serbia, as well as in the Constitutional Charter of the State Community, would not lose credibility. The establishment of this institution therefore requires a number of other very important steps. Legal acts should be harmonised in this field, as some of the powers given, or should be given to the Ombudsman could otherwise be questioned. On the other hand, the DS considers that at this point perhaps a little prematurely put this law before the MPs of the Republic of Parliament, for several reasons. First of all, December 3rd and 4th before the Venice Commission will be on the agenda of the proposal of this law and perhaps we should wait and hear objections and suggestions that this law, which represents a regulation of something completely new in our legal system, would be fully in line with the standards that we want to comply with. There are really good solutions to this bill of law that need to be mentioned. As good examples, we set out provisions which provide that the Ombudsman can be addressed by domestic and foreign citizens, as well as by domestic and foreign legal persons; that the performance of this function is incompatible with other public functions or professional activity; that he has legal access to the institutions for the execution of sanctions and talks in private with persons deprived of liberty; that the highest state officials are obliged to accept the Ombudsman at his request and no later than 15 days; that his salary is paid by the President of the Constitutional Court to perform his duties. However, what the Democratic Party will not vote for is a series of objections that we also notice in the draft of this law, which greatly destabilise the ombudsman institution and have a significant negative impact on its effectiveness and responsibility. These provisions, which will be cited, violate the authority of the Ombudsman institution and bring it largely into a position of dependence against the executive authority. The first remark, or something to think about, is certainly in the name of this law and in the term – protector of citizens. I remind you that in the Republic of Serbia the term ombudsman has already been extended, that this Ombudsman is already used for almost a year and a half in the Decision establishing the Ombudsman in Vojvodina, and in the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 126 - is used for this term: a civil defender. We do not think that the protection of citizens is not an appropriate term, but we are concerned that if, on a single legal scene in one country, we are talking about the same person or the same function, with almost identical responsibilities, with three different terms, we will indeed bring into confusion the citizens of Serbia, but all of us who are trying to introduce a single legal system and a unique terminology in the territory of the entire Republic. The remarks we also have and notice are about proposing an ombudsman candidate. Proposers, as provided for in Article 4, are the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia responsible for constitutional issues, each parliamentary group and several parliamentary groups together. We do not think that this is an appropriate way to propose an Ombudsman, since in this way it does not reflect what is its basic function, it is – the protector of citizens. We thought and thought that this category should be given the opportunity to propose 10 or 15,000 signatories to the public's protector. So, there is a citizens' initiative, as a possible variant of the proposal. But we also think that some other categories could be introduced in the context of the proposal itself. As for the election of the Ombudsman, we also have some objections. They are quite strict to give the conditions for proposing ombudsman, because it is assumed that he has 10 years of employment in the administration and that for 10 years, in some ways, he is a man who has ten years of experience in jobs related to the protection of human rights and freedoms. When you put 10 years back, that means we're talking about the period 1995 to 2005. Since we are burdened with a series of political turmoils, a change in the system that each of us can comment on, in which human rights has been a mental noun, and a violation of human rights every day, we are asking the question of how and how we are going to, how easily we will find someone who has ten years of experience in the administration and who is a ten-year expert in protecting human rights, who could even get a simple majority in this House. That's why we think that, in many ways, we need to change that provision. Perhaps to reduce the condition to five years, perhaps to raise some moral credibility of the identity of that person more than to establish such strict and, in our opinion, inefficient but not easily feasible conditions. We think that terms of importance or observed experience should be defined more precisely, because such broad interpretation is something that could burden a future candidate to perform this function. We also have an objection to the resolution of the Ombudsman, i.e. on the grounds referred to in Article 12, paragraph 1), where his unprofessional and unwitting conduct of the job is envisaged to resolve the Ombudsman. Given the majority that is sufficient to resolve the Ombudsman, which is one quarter plus one MP, theoretically in the Republic Parliament, we think that this could lead to the instability of this institution, because in this transitional period it is very important that the Ombudsman, if this law is passed, be an institution that should be quite difficult to bring down, or whose reputation should be particularly significant in this period of development of the Serbian state. As far as immunity is concerned, we also have an objection. It is predicted that they cannot be called to account for the opinions, criticisms or proposals they have made in the performance of their functions. It's okay, but we don't think it's enough. We believe that the immunity of the Ombudsman and his deputies must be even with the immunity of the MPs. In that sense, we have submitted appropriate amendments. With regard to the availability of data, we also have an objection, as the availability of information for the Ombudsman is strictly said not to allow it to be made available to data that are in fact secret. This is contrary to European standards, because the standards of democratic societies in this area mean that the Ombudsman is available, without exception, all the classified information needed to conduct the procedure. In that sense, we think these provisions could be changed. Many solutions in this bill are subject to constitutional and legal restrictions. As the predecessors said, they refer in the way of choice, to the resolution, as well as to the absence of a legislative full capacity initiative, which is one of the essential functions and is essential to the functioning of this institution. We also think that, if you will, for that reason, the proposal for this law is prematurely put before the Republic Parliament. Since we are talking about the 1990 Constitution, the Constitution that was brought into the one-party system, the Constitution that was announced in the pre-election campaign that the priority of resolving this ruling majority and whose change has been announced after the elections, we believe that the institution of the Ombudsman should be specified through the adoption of a new constitution and thus effectively enable this institution to be placed on the right basis. So, there are two solutions: either, what is not compatible with legalism and legitimacy, you will violate the provisions of the Constitution and give authority to the Ombudsman and, in fact, you will establish the institution of the Ombudsman, and it does not exist in the Constitution, or you will literally make an institution of the Ombudsman, and then after the amendments, or the adoption of a new constitution, you will bring this law into line with the provisions of the new constitution, if it is brought forward, which we are now almost all doubting, in the course of the term of this Parliament. What is particularly important to note when we talk about the Ombudsman institution is the fact that he has been in Vojvodina for a year and a half. (President: Excuse me, are you using another 10 minutes? Yes. Thank you. So, the circuit ombudsman exists for a year and a half and has experience that is valuable in assessing certain solutions. What is necessary is the fact that there was not enough compliance with the Republic's ministry when this law was passed on to a civil representative. Unfortunately, we cannot conclude that a comprehensive analysis of the content of the law, whether by professional or by the general public, was present. That is, we can conclude that it is lagging behind, which is why the transparency in work has not been achieved, which is directly contrary to the principles of democratic society. We remind you, "in a report on Serbia-Montenegro's readiness to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, consultation during the legislative procedure has been seen as unsatisfactory, and it is necessary to take greater efforts to make it as transparent as possible." Unfortunately, the same happened during a public debate and a general discussion of the expert public about this civil representative law. The special remarks the Democratic Party has on this law relate to the distinction of ombudsman's jurisdiction – the republican, the province and the level of local self-government. In Article 35, the jurisdiction of the province and local ombudsman has been delimited, and that all violations of the rights relating to republican regulations are determined to be resolved only by the protection of citizens, while non-republic regulations are resolved by the province's ombudsman and the local ombudsman. Such a provision is contrary to the Law establishing certain competences of the APV and is contrary to the Decision on the Regional Ombudsman. This way again, by who knows which time, there is a law before the republic's parliament that destroys the single legal system and whose provisions do not comply with the laws already in force in the state of Serbia. Namely, in Article 56. The Law laying down certain competences of the APV states that the AP is establishing an ombudsman, and therefore a decision on the province's ombudsman has been taken. The ombudsman's jurisdiction is defined in Article 1 and refers to the control of the work of the regional and municipal authorities of the administration. As can be concluded from the above, certain competences are different. In the case of civil defenders, it is determined against the violation of the rules, and in the case of a province ombudsman against a law enforcement body. In this way, the adoption of this law, through the eventual adoption of this law, fully erodes the jurisdiction of the province's Ombudsman, as well as the ombudsman's powers governed by the Law on Local Self-Government. And indeed, we are coming to the fact that decentralisation which, as you yourself know, is something that is very often used by the ruling coalition, but also by the government itself, in this case is completely analized. Since any violation of the province's rules also constitutes a violation of the republic's rules, the criteria for disseminating the jurisdiction of the citizens of the province and the local ombudsman are unclear before Article 3. A bill on the protection of citizens prescribed that by its decision, the citizens' protector can educate offices outside his seat. We believe that by ignoring the decision on the province's ombudsman, the Law establishing certain responsibilities of the AP and the Law on Local Self-Government, it is the intention of setting up one fully centralised institution, which would replace the already existing ombudsman institutions. decentralisation is the principle of organising a government that leads to best protection of citizens' rights. Centralization is the exact opposite of this. On this occasion, I would like to point out that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the preamble to the European Union's accession resolution, adopted on 13 October 2004, stressed the right for the Republic of Serbia to share the principles, values and objectives on which the European Union is based, and that harmonisation of legislation with the legal flows of the European Union will be given priority in the work of the National Assembly. The ombudsman's centralization addresses the issue completely differently. There is no respect for decentralisation, it is going to re-centralisation and who knows which way to derivate the powers of the Vojvodina through certain provisions, introduced into the laws in the Republic's parliament on the agenda. For all of this, with the fact that I am sorry that the minister has not established the successful work of the province's Ombudsman in the past year and a half, because it has not been established that in 2004 alone, in a few months, more than 330 cases have been seduced and that in 2005, more than 270 cases have been introduced; that five deputies, two with general jurisdiction, one for gender equality, one for the protection of the rights of children, one for the protection of the rights of national minorities, who are fully in line with European standards. In addition to all the remarks I have made so far, the Democratic Party considers that there are no conditions for the Law on the Protector of Citizens to be adopted in the Republic's parliament at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18959	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18960	Dear fellow Members of the People, using the right of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the SPS, I went out to replicate Mrs Stojacic and her claim on October 5th. I can say on behalf of the SPS, that the events of October 5th just confirmed what we said before and showed that October 5th was one classic coup of a group of people similar to or the same political orientation, paid for by money from abroad and organised abroad, and that there was a huge abuse of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Second, that October 5th was a big con from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Remember that six billion dollars story they're waiting to get in. Remember that story about a smile on Serbia's face, which will take place when democratic changes occur, stories about the state of prosperity, full employment, fair privatisation. They promised one thing, and the other they worked. As for us at the SPS, I can say that October 5th showed something that we knew before, that we are the only autonomous and authentic party, which respects both the state and national interests and is fighting for their achievement, which is democratic by organisation and structure, unlike those they call themselves. I said, and I stand by that position, that there was a protecter of citizens at the time, and of course they wouldn't bring it, regardless of the call for democratic values, because maybe there was something to be said about the shagging and torture that the Socialists were exposed to. Several tens of thousands of people were fired just because they were Socialists or were proposed by the Socialists to work in different state bodies and institutions, institutions, directors. They're just told -- you don't have to come here anymore. There was no possibility that a lawsuit could possibly be brought to an end, that a court ruling would be handed down, that someone would be guilty. No, from this pay phone, DOS ministers claimed that the Socialists did those things. This phone booth has been ruled out and now someone's talking about October 5th. But it's not the first time that Democrats have this habit of talking, and the other one is working. Just remember "Sablje" and 12,000 people imprisoned without a court ruling. But it's the nature of the Democratic Party, and that's why I'm standing by what I said, it's good that there's a public defender, so that the media doesn't brainwash us and that the institutions of the national offices don't replace the state institutions. Whether this institution is going to do that we're going to see it, but there's no need for the priors to dispute its value and potential importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18961	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, the application for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Serbian Radical Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party-Boris Tadic, G17 Plus, the Socialist Party of Serbia, the New Serbia MPs' Group 9 plus 9. Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18962	Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr Minister, you have spoken as well as representatives of the parliamentary groups about the basic objectives that require the adoption of the Ombudsman law and the rules for the work of the citizens' protectors. I would ask the minister to clarify one, perhaps a disputed situation for the menu, or I would like the minister to explain the following – in the section governing the procedure, it is said that the civil protection officer is acting on the complaints of the citizens or on his own initiative, and that before submitting the complaint, the citizen is obliged to protect his rights in an appropriate legal procedure, which means only after the second-degree body of the administration and the authority which exercise control over the right of supervision, i.e. courts in the administrative dispute. As the jurisdiction of citizens' protectors, it is prescribed that he controls the rights of citizens, controls the legality of the work of the administration, submits an initiative to the government to amend the law, gives an opinion on the law in preparation, can file criminal charges, cooperates with other state authorities, and what will be my question, he has the right to publicly recommend the resolution of officials responsible for the violation of the rights of citizens, i.e. to initiate a disciplinary procedure against an employee in the authority of the administration who is directly responsible for the injury done, and that if, from repeated behaviour of the officials or employees, he creates an intention to refuse co-operation or to establish that a major damage has been done. Therefore, it is clearly prescribed that the civil protection officer can publicly recommend the resolution of the officials responsible for the violation of citizens' rights. I think I understand well that the civil protection officer in this case must have the decision of the competent authority, which found the official responsible. Therefore, the situation is clear when the public defender, acting on a public complaint or on his own initiative, recommends determining the responsibility of officials who refuse to co-operate. However, I ask you Ministers to explain the case in case – when does the civil protection officer have the right to publicly recommend the resolution of the official responsible for the violation of citizens' rights? Is it possible for him to make prior decisions by the competent authority only by his own initiative and in what cases, if that is the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18963	Thank you, the word has a People's MP, Milorad Belic, and let the People's Parliament of Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18964	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, the predecessors have mostly come from different points of view, the advantages of this law that is before us today and I prefer to call it the Civil Protection Act simply for the sake of our purity, that is, the purity of our language, rather than the law of the Ombudsman. I would only point to one aspect that was discussed by both colleagues Obradovic and his colleague Krasic, but I think that too much authority has gone beyond that discussion and finding. In fact, it seems to me that the most important thing in this bill is that it is an independent state body and that it is, in fact, the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens, as well as the control of the work of the public administration. Why am I stressing this "independent state body"? It seems to me that on the political scene and in our public, we also have one para-state authority, which is mentioned in the Office of the President of the Republic. I would just remind you of the manners that were characteristic and DS, while it was in power in the largest number of municipalities and in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the manners that were intended to strengthen the influence of DS in areas where they did not exercise power, so-called. Government offices, and there, as was the case in my Valjev, where the DS had an inadequate personnel list, had to also form a government office to strengthen influence and not only media, which was a priority, but also some specific, concrete activities. It is also very important that the headquarters of citizens' protectors is in Belgrade, and that the possibility is also allowed to educate these offices all over Serbia, according to local self-government. More importantly, this institution and the institute choose this home and is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'd remind my esteemed colleagues from the SRS, even from the SPS, if we had the opportunity to cancel the budget rebalancing two months ago, or at least to affect the suspension, so-called. The People's Offices of the President of the Republic, when you didn't vote for that amendment submitted by the MPs of the NS. The amendment was removed some 29 million, as there is, according to our information, 15 or plus three, perhaps in the meantime, 18 offices of the President of the Republic. I absolutely agree with the predecessor that this is an DS service, a marketing service, because I know from experience, and when I say from experience, it's because the citizens who spoke to me as a MP, asking for protection, said they were also talking to the office of the President of the Republic. They received an answer, or individual authorities of the state administration, that they must, not necessarily, not so ultimately, but to speed up the solution to a particular problem, etc. I remind you that if there is already something called the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if there is already a division and the items we voted on here, I do not see anywhere in that item, in that section regarding the financing of the President of the Republic, or of all the services that belong to it, that so much and so much money is allocated to the financing of the National Office. Moreover, his advisers, or whatever they are, openly say that they do not receive salaries etc., and you see here there is in this bill of law and a position that says that performing the function of the protection of citizens and their deputies, as I have read, is incompatible with the performance of other public functions, i.e. that they cannot be members of the parties either. That is why I really think we need this, with that finding that this parliament has worked most fertilisingly in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, which we can all be proud of, regardless of political membership. I think this law is extremely significant, and if anything else because of what every one of us knows how many times he knocked on some untouchable and unreachable door of bureaucracy, or as those characters in Kafka's novels already know. It simply brings you to despair, because everything that is your element, which is that some personal rights and freedoms are inaccessible, distant, and everything seems to be happening elsewhere or elsewhere. I think that's very important, and as far as this people's office is concerned, I would support it, and the MPs of the NS will, or independent MPs -- nine plus nine, support this law, with a deep and sincere belief that it will contribute to the democratisation of social relations in Serbia, and on the other hand, that the existence and financing of the Republic President's Office will be absolutely meaningless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18965	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18966	Just for the sake of truth and for the citizens of Serbia not to think that there are some kind of occult activities going on here. We were transferred why we didn't vote for an amendment that one part of the government asked to abolish the funding of the National Office. We didn't vote for any amendments, we didn't vote for the Budget Law. So, if you're not satisfied with the Budget Law, don't look for the culprits of the Socialists and the SRS. You could have said - we won't vote for the Budget Law either, because without us you can't vote it, because the funding of the National Office is foreseen. So it's your fault. You submitted an amendment to abolish the funding of the People's Office, but you swallowed the dumpling and voted in favour of a law in which that amendment was not accepted. What does that have to do with the SRS? You have made it possible to fund the National Office against your will, which you have expressed through the amendment. So your political position was not to finance the National Office, but an additional political stance, which determines that you will be the authority, defined that you are voting for the budget. That's what's at Kafka's.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18967	The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović, and let MP Miroslav Zivkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18968	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, we've been waiting for a very long law on the Ombudsman. When he came into congregation procedure, I must admit, I had the pleasure of working on that law and adopting it. However, when I saw the proposal, I realized that this is not what we think should be adopted in this assembly, and we think it is necessary to adopt it, because all countries in the environment, all of our former states, have Albania, Uzbekistan and some countries that should not have these civilizational assets before us. I don't think the solutions that are in the law, or the proposal that we've been offered, are the solutions that the DS can accept. I think that some of the achievements we have in the development of democracy deny us, and that is why we are offered a solution, as a party, dissatisfied. I'm going to stick to one remark that's, for me all the time, actually, disputable. Why aren't the deputies of the Ombudsman or the assistants, as he calls them, resolutely divided? We already have that solution in the duke's decision that established the Ombudsman, where we have assistants for general jobs and assistants for certain restours, where real protection of human rights is necessary, because they are mostly broken in these restories. In my head, I also have some suggestions that I thought should enter into this bill, so I deliberately avoid the name "protector of citizens," because not only is it inadequate, but I don't accept it, and that's why I call it the Ombudsman all the time, because it turns out to be one of the usual ones; we are in Serbia, it's Vojvodina, and in Vojvodina, too, many of us here or our parties voted for a decision that has an ombudusman. Therefore, the fact that an esteemed colleague referred to me as a reason not to be an Ombudsman does not mean much to me. Our objection applies to the very beginning of the law, so the DS has tabled an amendment to the name of the law itself, because the name of the guardian of the citizens, in addition to introducing a brand new concept into our legal system, is inadequate and does not sufficiently indicate the nature of the institution to be represented by the Ombudsman, which you will allow, except Vojvodina, in our legal life is unknown. On the contrary, we already know the Institute as a civil defender, because the Law on Local Self-Government, which we adopted, has the name of a civil defender, not a civil defender, and that is why we submitted the amendment asking that this member to change the name of the law and the name of the institute itself, or the institution of the ombdusman. In my opinion, the problem can represent who are the candidates for the ombdusman. We have heard that in the bill of law that proposings can be any parliamentary group in the Assembly or more parliamentary groups if they identify one common candidate, I think it is completely illegal. Doesn't it seem to you that this proposed application procedure has too much party determination? Shouldn't an ombudusman institution be impartial and independent of party settlements? That, by some of my feelings, would be the protector of the citizens he proposed, adopted or accepted by the government, no matter what he voted in the congregation. We know how they go and what the suggestions are, those who vote in the congregation. If the candidate for ombdusman were to propose NGOs, which are otherwise concerned with the protection of human rights and freedom, of course I do not deny the proposal from these already proposed proposings, but I think that the proposings should be extended to NGOs, to the people's initiative, or 20,000 citizens to propose an ombudusman because they believe that a person is worthy of doing the job. I can't help but comment on that article that refers to the ombdusman's choice. Why is it envisaged that for the performance of the tasks provided for in Article 1, which are an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the state administration, which also takes care of the protection of human rights and freedoms, why must it be just a graduate lawyer? Is this matter inadequately or inadequately dealt with by people who graduate from philosophy college, means sociologists, politicians. I don't see at all how we in the state will find a ten-year experience in protecting human rights in Serbia, a lawyer who owns all the qualities set out in the proposal. Do we live for 10 years in a democratic society that deals with the protection of human rights and solves such problems, and we will find lawyers who are already a good part of their working life. I think that this period of work for the candidate proposal should have been reduced for the simple reason that I don't think we're going to be able to find a suitable personality for this function. I would also like to comment on the solution to the proposal that contains four deputies, which are not defined in certain areas. Of course, you'll realize that it's actually the part that interests me the most, and I just have to underline it again so that my solution with specialized deputies would be much more favourable. If the proposed proposal remains, and I have no doubt that you will vote the law that the Government has proposed, then it is inadmissible that Article 6, which provides for specialization in the field of law enforcement, does not provide for women's rights, when we are aware of the fact that in every step human rights and freedoms are being violated precisely by women. We in a country where this discrimination is at an envious level, and when I say to an envious level, I mean the whole environment, and even Europe, we haven't found it necessary for one of the rights to be protected specifically or especially by the rights of the child, with minority rights, to be the right women.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18969	The People's Messenger Miroslav Zivkovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18970	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, the G17 Plus MP group never had the slightest dilemma when it was necessary to support some laws that re-create the state from Serbia, which re-emerge Serbia into a state, a modern and modern European state. We don't have any dilemmas right now. MEPs G17 plus will support this proposal and will vote for the adoption of this law. In fact, and how important it is that the state adopts laws extending the rights and freedoms of citizens, but we think it is even more important that the state adopts laws that protect these rights and freedoms, that instruments are adopted that will be implemented in practice. Is there more evidence of a single society's democracy than when the state adopts laws that provide for instruments that protect itself, or when it protects citizens from themselves and the representatives of the same state. It has been shown in previous practice that administrative and judicial control is not enough and that some new and more modern ways need to be reached. I think you've made a good conclusion that this is about the Ombudsman. It is unfortunate that Serbia is the 133th country in the world to introduce this institute, which introduces the Institute of Protectors of Citizens. It is unfortunate that Serbia has again found itself at the beginning of the modern world. Now I don't understand the dilemma of some fellow MPs that this is premature, that this law is not necessary. Of course we need this law. The greater the rights and the greater the number of institutes that are protected by certain rights we have, the more democratic a country is. Of course, the quality of this law can be disputed. They're right fellow MPs who say this law is not perfect. It's a long way from that. But from one bad law, there's only one thing that's worse, and that's the lack of legal regulation. Members of the G17 plus expressed their objections through amendments. Some of them have been adopted, I hope we can talk about the others. I think those most important remarks that G17 has will be removed. I don't want to waste your time saying what's contained in the reasoning of this proposal and which is why we're going to vote for this law. I'd like to say something about one piece, where I think this proposal should have been resolved in another way. Article 1 states that the protection of citizens takes care of the protection and improvement of human rights, and what is important, controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, as well as other organisations entrusted with public authority. In the view of Article 17, Article 3, they are excluded from the control of the guardians of the citizens of the courts and of the prosecution. Taking into account the specificity of our society and the particular fact that most of our citizens' complaints are about the work of the courts and the prosecution, I believe that the work of the judicial authorities could also have been under the control of the citizens' protectors. Of course, we also accept your argument that this would affect the work and independence of the courts, the principle of sharing power. However, I would remind you that in some countries in the environment, and in the world there are protectors of citizens or ombudsmen who have that authority. Let's say, in Montenegro, I mean, in the event of a delay in proceedings, the obvious abuse of procedural powers or non-execution of judicial decisions, the Ombudsman can react. In the UK, the parliamentary commissioner looks after the judicial administration. Especially interesting is the solution we find in Sweden, where the Ombudsman is able to attend court proceedings, where he controls the work of the courts by warning judges in case of minor injuries, and even has the opportunity to launch an initiative in the event of serious injuries by the judge. Of course, in this case, a strict legal barrier must only limit the Ombudsman to control, say, deadlines, court staff, and not be allowed to control the metricity of court decisions. That would be inadmissible. I think there's an instrumentation that could be arranged. Don't forget, judges themselves violate human rights. Isn't it a violation of human rights if you've been waiting for a verdict for six years? Isn't it a violation of human rights if you wait 10 years for one execution, when everything has been sold alive, and where you have no place to execute that sentence. So the public defender would have to have control over the work of the judicial authorities as well. What's more important, and that's what you've well predicted by law, to provide the Ombudsman with maximum independence in the decision-making process. Only in this way will the citizens get a reliable mechanism for protecting their rights. The other remarks were made by colleague Marko Krstin, so I won't take up any more of your time. Members of the G17 plus will vote in favour of this law and we support every law that takes us to Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18971	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic has the word, so let the People's Messenger Heliana Dragojevic be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18972	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law ahead of us which you call a little too emphasisally reformal, systemically, and without it I don't even know how we've existed, but surely in the future we wouldn't be able to function. It seems to me that you do not actually have the strength to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and that you are ready to pass laws that are in line with your understanding of the prospects of the future constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws that will be incorporated immediately into the Constitution of Serbia, at any time. It's a completely wrong order of steps. The laws come out of the constitution, not out of the law of the constitution. As long as we have this constitution, as it is, and you're satisfied with it, because you don't change it or try to change it in any way, you can't pass unconstitutional laws. You know very well what is mixed in this bill and how much it has entered the Constitution, as if it were none of its business, as if the Constitution is not a framework in which the legislators, especially those who pass the laws, or those who assess their constitutionality, must move. Here, let's start with this civil mother. First of all, I'd like to know if he's the patron of the company's citizens, is that a legal face? He's a beneficiary of the budget. We're going to talk a little bit about how he is granted these budgets, if anyone has the right to influence the amount of funds, since I see that the government has to accept his proposal. I wonder if he's a legal person. You say his salary is determined by the National Assembly. How does the National Assembly determine wages? Haven't I heard that the National Assembly determines wages? Here, this would be the first example of the National Assembly sitting, most of the votes, in the voting day, establishing the salary of the citizens' protectors. What about the salaries of other officials at a firm called Protector of Citizens? You didn't baptize that company here, there's no board of directors, there's no governing bodies. There are some rules of conduct that come here on some kind of cover. I don't think there was any intention of this man doing anything. When I say "man," I mean the face the Assembly will choose. With that function and with the "man" who performs that function, I met for the first time in Strasbourg, when Mark Novicki submitted a report to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Yes, he should be commended for everything he said about the situation, about the protection of human rights, about the work of institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. I asked him directly at a session of the Parliamentary Assembly if he was satisfied with what he did, whether he looked like someone who always wanted good and could never do good, and is the purpose of having someone who wanted good? What did Mark Novicki do for Serbs, or Albanians, or anyone else in Kosovo and Metohija? What did he do? What will be the success of this patron of our citizens? No, he's not in the system anywhere. You didn't provide for a criminal provision anywhere for anyone who didn't act on the orders of the guardians of the citizens. "He owes the authority of the administration, he's in charge of this, he's in charge," and what if he doesn't perform his duty? It's still not regulated. He was in debt, he didn't do it, and he doesn't have any responsibility. Even the law that regulated his work does not provide for responsibility if he does not fulfill the orders of one who did not exist when the law on his work was passed. You know, if you're reforming a system, you have to fully execute it, not just change your hat, and under the hat to keep everything the way it was. Why does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs propose protection of citizens? Does that make sense? What should the Constitutional Affairs Committee do – the work of the State Administration Authority? This directly affects the work of the authorities of the state administration, suggests a man who will control the work of the government's authority. Whether it is the work of the committee responsible for constitutional issues or that of Sisifov - to make a proposal to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly ordered him to do so, to give the proposal of a new constitution of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. Since he can't do that, and that's the most important thing, let's let him propose to protect the citizens. And then, he can do it, it can do any group of MPs, it can do it together. It's so widespread that the leprosy of the pronouns is going on forever. And here, as you will never be able to change the Constitution, the question is whether you will ever be able to choose, or whether you will have a proposal for that man at all, without talking about how it will go at the vote. Article 5, who can be elected. He says he has high moral and professional qualities. You keep repeating that formula. Which one of us MPs, who will raise our hand here, will assess and prove to us that he has high moral and professional qualities. Will the BIA deliver the report? How are moral and professional qualities evaluated? Come on -- professional quality, if he's finished law school and he's never been guilty, I don't suppose you'll invite him here for any professional exam, but in order to prove his professional qualities, he'd have to pass some expert exams. But what about moral qualities? Are you sure he never glued gum under his desk? Are you sure he never thought of a marriage trip? Are you sure he didn't ever go through with the red light? What is morale compatible with the function of protectors of citizens for you? What are the conditions? Will it be decisive who can be proposed and who can't? Why didn't you predict he was never financed from abroad? Why is that not a basic condition? One can be chosen who has never been financed from abroad, institutionally or non-institutionally, by the projects he has worked for someone, or by the fact that he has had a monthly allowance for what he does for people from abroad. Be careful further, the civil protection officer takes an oath before the Assembly, and his deputy is taking his oath before the president of the Assembly. What about that deputy he ordered to replace? And he didn't take an oath before the assembly? What if he goes on long-term sick leave, if there's a reason to replace him for five, 15 or 50 days? He becomes the patron of the citizens, who has not sworn an oath before the National Assembly. Why isn't that worked out to the end? If he's going to replace it, he has to come here to take an oath before the assembly. Only then is he the real deputy protecter of the citizens. He's completely replacing it. Article 7, swears to the patrons of the citizens. It really doesn't make sense. Watch the text - swears to work safely to protect and improve human rights and freedoms. And where is he now being controlled by the government's authority? Why doesn't he swear here he'll be safe to control the work of the government's authority. It's his job. You said he'd take care of human rights and freedoms, but also the work of the government's authority. to control that work. He won't swear here now that he'll control the work of the government's authority. Although you know that this curse is only for God's sake, and there's a lunatic here who doesn't even count his oath as a sworn oath. It is believed that the patron of the citizens is on duty at the time of the oath, but if he doesn't show up at work, so you mistake things there, you use the same concept when he doesn't show up at work and when he takes an oath, because you say he's on duty by taking an oath. In the next position, you say - if within 30 days he doesn't take office. Are you counting on him not to take an oath within 30 days? Or what happens if he takes an oath, then he's gone for 30 days at work. Why are you pulling him out of the general rules on working relationship? Why isn't that five days? Who is he to wait for him 30 days after his duty under the law to appear at work. That's an unwarranted reason. You're already saying, if for unwarranted reasons, he's been gone for 30 days. No one's been waiting 30 days. No one is forgiven in Serbia for not being at work for 29 days. No one can protect a citizen. He would lose a dispute that someone would bring against him under the Labour Act. Watch this formula. Please, gentlemen of the government, those of you who propose these laws, and you gentlemen from the ruling majority, who support these laws, no longer consider those who deal with politics as unworthy men, as cattle, as people who need to be told what they cannot do in life. I have to ask you, you're saying that the protecter of citizens and the deputy protector of citizens can't be members of political organizations. What kind of discrimination is this? And can they be members of NGOs? Can they belong to a church? Since only those who are members of political parties are banned from some public action zones in our country's life. What does that mean? The best-quality people can't be members of political parties? So who's going to do politics? So, in millions of political parties, there are none that can protect citizens. Did he define himself? Did he define himself as a member of the political party that he was forbidden some occupations, some public functions? When you carry it out so consistently, why don't you do it all the way? Why is that just supposed to happen? What is the authority that respected that? Would you like an example of the Constitutional Court of Serbia? When in the Constitutional Court of Serbia there are members, political party officials, from where you have the moral quality to deny it in other laws to lower officials, deputy protectors of the rights of citizens. And these university provisions, he says -- the protection of citizens and the deputy protectors of citizens cannot be called to account for the opinions, criticism or proposals they have made in the performance of their functions. Which Serbian citizens may be called to account for opinions, proposals or criticism. Well, we fight that no one can be called to account for opinions, suggestions or criticism. We're fighting there's no verbal delinquent. And now you're protecting the special protector of the citizens. This suggests that others can be punished if they criticise, although even in the KZ you predicted that no one can be punished for insulting, demeaning officials and institutions, if he did so in serious criticism. So when there is a general provision, which now to him, as he will be particularly protected. We feel unprotected because some people are particularly protected by what we would not want to be punished for. I wish every citizen could criticise, give his opinion, that he could express his position, whatever he is, if he doesn't commit a crime to carry out his position. You've had many occasions to hear Serbian radicals say that someone even has the right to talk about wanting Vojvodina to be a state. Let him talk, let him dream. It can't be arranged, it can't lead to a process that will happen because the Constitution won't allow it, it can say whatever it wants. You're not going to arrest people again because they say what comes to mind. Let them speak. Freedom of speech is still a punishment for The Hague. A political idea still punishes The Hague, but you know it's not a court. Is the dispensary of the citizens, did the protégé of the citizens who resigned, have the right to receive a six-month salary and have labour rights at the end of the post, until he finds a new job? You ranked him, at least on salary, with the President of the Constitutional Court. These are the rights that many government officials have. What about the public defender? Is today, if it's resolved, does tomorrow have to look for a new job? If I'm wrong, if I haven't seen that provision correct me, but I think I've seen the law well. What do you need from a Member of the 12rd position, the Ombudsman has the right to contact the MPs at the meeting of the Assembly to decide on his resolution? We haven't let anyone here talk to you yet when he's been cleared. You did not, the ruling majority in various cases, allow MPs to turn here, when the president of the assembly found the end of the term of office, the security service kicked the MPs out of the O.R. Of course, the president of the National Assembly, who pushed your new Rules of Procedure, predicted that anyone he invited could speak here. That's what you voted for. It doesn't matter to you. You have demoted the National Assembly to the end. You have eventually demoted the National Assembly, so you can be surprised by anyone sitting here in the first bench, going out for a pay phone, and when we ask – what is it, the President of the Assembly invited him, and we have to listen. If he already has the right to invite the President of the Assembly, let him call on the protection of the citizens who have been released, and not by law determine that the Protector of the Citizens can contact the National Assembly, and no one else, chosen by the Assembly and resolved, has the right to address the Assembly. This violates the human rights of those you have not given the right to turn from the pay phone and explain their behavior that they have come under attack. I have seen that we now have the amendment of the Committee on Justice and Administration, which is changing the position of Article 1 17. Let me remind you, according to your new Rules of Procedure, that's impossible now. So he's not saying he controls human rights anymore, he's saying he's controlling human rights. He says it's generally accepted. Yes, but the Committee can only amend those 24 hours between the debate in principle and the debate in particular. Now, when the debate began, or five days before the debate, before the session began, no one could submit this amendment. This amendment is not valid, Mr. President. If he wants the Justice Committee to submit him, let's wait for the hearing to end. Furthermore, the protection of citizens is authorised to submit an initiative to the Government to amend or supplement the laws, etc. First, let's get this straight, why just the government? The government is not the only authorised legislator of the law. Why not the MPs? On the other hand, why are you giving him the right he already has? Every citizen has the right to submit an initiative to amend the law. Every citizen has the right to do so. It's an initiative, not binding on anyone. What the government is saying here, what it will do after that, is required to consider the initiatives brought by the public's protector. Then what? The government finds that the initiative cannot be implemented. He can't pass the bill, and that initiative is over. The Protector of Citizens has been authorised to open proceedings before the Constitutional Court. Is he particularly isolated now, does everyone have the right to proceed before the Constitutional Court? The Constitutional Court exists to protect everyone's rights. You're writing him something to make the law longer. I don't see the basis for this kind of writing. Of course, Article 20 raises the question whether the protection of citizens or the competent state authority is right? That will be the basis of the dispute. You're saying that the re-behaving of a functionor or an employee results in the intention of refusing to cooperate with a civil protectionist. If the government's authority thinks the citizen's protector is wrong, he didn't refuse to cooperate with him. That's where someone needs to judge. So, the citizen turned to the civil protection officer, pointed to some violation of the government's authority, the citizen's protector intervened, and the government's authority thinks he's right. It's not God's day to protect the citizens. It's not his last and it can't be the last. It's not a rejection of co-operation that someone disobeys the advice of the public's protectors. A man works by law and conscience and believes he's absolutely right and doesn't fear the public's protectors. You now want him to be afraid and shivering, where he appears -- co-operation with the public defender has been denied. The protection of citizens is then authorised to apply to the competent authority or to apply for criminal, criminal or other proceedings. Well, every citizen is authorized. Nothing's special about him, and he's got the whole law about himself. The authorities have an obligation to cooperate with the protector, and punishment if they do not cooperate. What's the penalty for the administration's authority if it doesn't cooperate with the protector? Who determines whether he cooperated or not? What if he accepts the guardian of the citizens, listens, receives his submission, whether he cooperates or not, and won't change his attitude and his opinion, because he thinks he's absolutely right, because he may have 20 years of experience in legal affairs and a protector is 10. In several members, in 24, 32, you mention when the civil protection proceedings are initiated. You say in article 24, in a general provision, "proves proceedings on the complaints of citizens or on its own initiative". I agree, and in Article 25, point 6 and 7 you say, "The public defender will not act on anonymous complaints, especially if he considers that in an anonymous complaint there is a basis for his actions, the civil protectionist can initiate the procedure by his own initiative." You already said that in article 24. He can start the procedure by his own initiative, and when will he work? Or, in Article 32: "The Protector of Citizens can act on his own initiative when he estimates that there has been an injury based on his own knowledge or knowledge obtained from other sources, including anonymous complaints". What's going on? That he has the right to work on his own initiative. That's what you said in the general part. So, who knows how many things you haven't predicted when he's on his own initiative. Enough to say it's by its own initiative. Articles 29, 30 and 31 mention the obligations of the Authority in relation to the requirements of the protection of citizens. They're pretty well-listed. What about the fines? These members had to be mentioned in the criminal provisions. All the members you imposed on someone had to be mentioned in the criminal provisions, which are not in the law at all, for failure to comply. You spoke plainly here from this pay phone, that this is making a normal state, it's all going into frames, frames. How is the authority of the state administration introduced into the framework and within the framework where there are no sanctions for it unless it fulfils the requirement or obligation of this law, or the request of the protection of citizens? What is this orderly state in which someone has an obligation and cannot be punished for failing to comply? It's a state of chaos and riding, not a country of order, a country where everything is ready. A regular annual report shall be submitted to the Assembly by a member of the public's 33th Protector. It is not said whether the Assembly adopts an annual report by citizens' protectors. In Section 2, you say the annual report is published in the Official Messenger. Is this the item of the agenda that's being discussed, or is it written to us once a year or for three months, and special reports, is he just sending us a report or is there a debate on his report? Let me remind you that the government of the Republic of Serbia has not reported its work for five years. And now the public defender will file a report. No one here has filed a report that could open the debate. All reports are filed at press conferences because there are no opposition MPs here to ask them, to point out their mistakes, to criticize them for their work. So this report is completely unregulated. If we have the right to discuss it, if we have the right to decide on it, then it's a report. If he's been writing to us about how many days a year he's been doing and what he's been doing, then it's not a report. In article 35, you intervened in what already exists, in situations that may arise, which is the protector of citizens at the level of local self-government, at the AP level and at the level of the Republic of Serbia. There is no co-ordination, there is no jurisdiction, there is no higher or lower authority, but you did predict that if someone gets a request that does not apply to his jurisdiction, not to the authority of the lower or higher guardian of the citizens, although in the Law on Local Self-Government he does not even call himself the Protector of the Citizens, you have provided him with an obligation to deliver that request to whoever is in charge. There's no punishment for him now if he doesn't deliver that request. If the Republic's citizens' protector does not submit the request he received, and concerns citizens' protectors in local self-government, there is no punishment. And vice versa - if that lowest protector of citizens does not submit a citizen's request, which relates to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic's patron of citizens, there is no punishment. What if he doesn't deliver? Rule 37, budget. "The funds for work are provided in the budget. The Citizens' Protector makes up a proposal for funding for next year and delivers it to the Government for inclusion as an integral part of the Republic's draft budget. "Is the government entitled to reduce the funds required by the citizen's protector. Is there or isn't there? There's no formula like this. The government only includes it in the draft budget law. It can only be rejected if it is not under the methodology of the Budget Act. The amount of funds, the amount of funds, the government is not interested. It goes into the draft budget law and automatically gets voted, otherwise the government falls. Do the MPs have the right to make amendments to the proposal for funds required by the protection of citizens? They have that as well as any other bill, but that doesn't define the fate of funding the protection of citizens, because the government will either receive and receive the budget or not, and that will be all. One general stance says that the annual funding must be sufficient to enable its effective and effective performance, but to be in line with the macroeconomic policy of the Republic of Serbia. So, if there's inflation, my dear citizens, the guardian of the citizens won't have the money to protect you. If there's no money in the budget, you won't have protection. You'll have as much protection as there is money in the budget. Who thought to predict this? Will the achievement of rights and freedoms in the Republic of Serbia depend on budget funds? I don't think that's up to it. Then we could say that Serbia has always been a poor country and that there has therefore been no protection of the rights and freedom of man and citizen. Then you would introduce a really new term in political practice, especially in the practice of protecting human rights and freedoms, which is -- human rights and freedoms will only be protected in a country where there is funds in the budget for the achievement of human rights and freedoms. That's why we'll be against this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18973	I thank Mr. Nikolic. The word has a folk MP, Heliana Dragojevic, from the DSS, and let Miodrag Djidic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18974	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, we are today discussing a proposal for a new law that we have not yet had in our positive legal system. Namely, this is about a proposal for a law on the protection of citizens. The development of the principle of power-sharing in legislative, executive and judicial matters, as the basis for the establishment of a rule of law and the rule of law, at the same time leads to the need for the introduction and development of specific legal instruments, the primary objective of which is the achievement of general law and the protection of individual rights and freedoms, particularly in relation to decisions and actions of state authorities and officials. By strengthening the process of democracy, along with a number of modifications to this institution, as a reflection of national specificities, this institution has become widely accepted as part of democratic processes in one country. Namely, it is a specific control institution, which oversees the work of the authorities of the state administration, public services, local self-government authorities, means the work of those entities that directly decide on the rights and obligations of citizens. The draft law has been defined as the protection of citizens, given the fundamental role of this institution to protect citizens' rights through specific control of work, in particular by the authorities of the state administration and all other entities who, in the exercise of public authority, by acting or by inaction, can harm someone's guaranteed rights and freedoms. The term – the protection of citizens, the legislator means not only a natural person who is a local citizen, but also every natural person of a foreign citizen, a domestic and foreign legal person, whose rights and obligations are decided by the authorities of the administration, businesses and institutions entrusted with public authority. The protection of citizens is not an authority of institutional legal control. As a result, there is no authority to measure the rights and obligations of citizens, but interventions consist of measures of warning, apparition, opinion, proposal, initiative and do not have a legal obligation to force, but rather a form of external, public control. In view of this role, the protection of citizens is determined by its jurisdiction, position and conduct. The control of the citizens' protectors is explicitly excluded from the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government as a collegiate body, the Constitutional Court, courts and public prosecutors. The second important role of the protection of citizens concerns the care of the protection and promotion of human freedoms and rights. One of the important responsibilities of citizens' protectors is also the right to a legislative initiative. Namely, the Civilian Protector may submit appropriate initiatives to the Government to amend and supplement certain regulations or to adopt new ones. The government is obliged to consider these initiatives. In the process of applying the rules governing issues of importance for the protection of citizens' rights, the protection of citizens gives its opinions on the proposed solutions. Since this authority has no right to make legally binding decisions, nor to change its decisions when it has uncontested a breach of law, it has no right to apply the measure, any sanctions. It is only authorised in relation to a person responsible for the violation of the right to publicly recommend his resolution if it is a public official or to initiate the launch of a disciplinary procedure in the case of a directly responsible employee, who has committed a violation of the right. I consider it a significant right for citizens' protectors to be able to access sanctions and other places where they are deprived of their freedom, as well as the right to speak to those persons in private. The Civil Protection Officer shall initiate proceedings on the complaints of the citizens or on his own initiative. The process of addressing citizens' protectors is simple, without strict form and free of charge. The Ombudsman shall only conduct the proceedings after the applicant has tried to protect his rights in an appropriate legal procedure, except in the law of the prescribed exceptions, because neither the citizen's protector nor the authority responsible for the procedure of regular control can interfere with or influence the work of the authorities. This refers to the second-degree authorities of the administration, the authorities that exercise control under the right of supervision, the courts in the administrative dispute. The bill regulates the co-operation of this body with the province and local ombudsman, the competent services of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and the other state bodies. The role of civil protectionists in society can only be achieved if this body is independent and independent in its work. In this respect, the Proposer prescribes conditions for the selection of holders of this function in the institution, the procedure and the reasons for the termination of the function. By adopting the proposed text of the law, Serbia will fulfil one of its international obligations stemming from membership in the Council of Europe. But at the same time, it will take another step in the democratisation process, which is enough reasons for the DSS parliamentary group to support the proposed text of the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18975	I thank Ambassador Dragojevic. The Messenger of the people, Miodrag Djidić, has the word, and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silaiev.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18976	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS is pleased that there is a political will to speak about the law on the protection of citizens, which is the political will to introduce this institution in Serbia, because we believe this will contribute to Serbia's further democratisation because, whether or not we want it, we must recognise that democratic institutions in Serbia are still fragile, but that the passing of time and the passing of such laws and other democratic laws of Serbia will be done in the right way. However, we have a number of objections to the proposed law and we believe that the text of the law had to and could have been much better. Unfortunately, there are also some justified restrictions that have prevented the proponent from passing a more quality law. That's what some of my predecessors have been talking about, and it concerns the 1990 Serbian Constitution, because some of the provisions of the Constitution have made it impossible for me to think that the text of this law is getting better, and that, above all, concerns the institution of the election of citizens' protectors and its legislative activities. We believe that the protection of citizens should be absolutely independent in their work, that as little political influence as possible suffers from any political group, or normal and ruling coalitions, and that this would be a solution would be to have it elected in this assembly by a two-thirds majority vote. Unfortunately, I repeat, under the existing Constitution it is impossible, because it is not foreseen. The Constitution states exactly what matters the Assembly decides by a two - thirds majority. The Ombudsman could not even be mentioned, because at that time there was neither political will nor desire to pass such a law. We have submitted one amendment to fix it somehow, to make it better, since the law provides that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes to the Assembly of Protectors of Citizens. The law states that this seems to be an absolute majority of the Committee members. We suggest that it be a two-thirds majority. In this way, we will influence the protector's independence, because surely the ruling coalition cannot impose a proposal on itself, but will have to seek agreement with opposition parties, and then I am sure that we will come to the right solution, to the best solution for all citizens of Serbia. The second thing I want to talk about and which is also limited, unfortunately, by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is the legislative activity of the Ombudsman. We would like the protector to submit directly to the Assembly draft laws concerning his activities, but unfortunately that is limited by the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the existing Constitution clearly states who can propose the laws. These are, in addition to the MPs of the people, the Parliament of the AP of Vojvodina or at least 15,000 voters. Therefore, the protector cannot and could not be regulated by this law, but we also consider that in this sense we have also submitted an amendment to allow the protector to participate in the work of the Assembly and in the work of the congregation bodies, when they are on the agenda of the laws concerning its activities. He has the right under the law to propose it to the government, but that does not mean that the government will also file his law or if it submits that it will adequately defend him, so that it should allow the protector to participate in the work. Furthermore, we have objections concerning and names of these institutions, because there is already an ombudsman institution in the province of Vojvodina and in local self-government. This is regulated by Article 126. Law on local self-government. There, the Ombudsman is called a civil defender and in order not to have dualism, in order not to call the same function a different function, we suggest that even at the level of the Republic of ombudsman it is called a civil defender. We think it's an acceptable solution. As for proposing candidates, I said a little while ago, the Ombudsman candidate may also propose parliamentary groups to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the Committee will then implement the proposal to the Assembly, to hold elections later in the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. We don't think this is good again, because it's up to the political will of the parties again, and we think it would be good, and it's not against the constitution, to make a statement about it, or, if we wish, to organise groups and that 15 or 20 thousand signatures can come here with a proposal for a protector and then the Assembly decides on it. I think it's one democratic right for citizens to do it. The next thing that the DS criticises is the choice of Ombudsmans, i.e. some of the conditions foreseen for the ombudsman's election, which is 10 years of experience in legal affairs, which are important for the performance of the ombudsman's duties and observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. Unfortunately, we haven't had a democratic society in 10 years, and we're afraid that at this point we might find it difficult to find an adequate person who can meet all the requirements. We therefore propose that five years of this experience be prescribed instead of 10 years, and that we will then be easier to come together to the right solution. You don't need a picture. If what we are proposing is adopted to be elected by two-thirds of the Constitutional Committee members, then there will indeed be the right choice, because it will not depend on most of the ruling coalition, it will depend partly on the opposition. As far as the resolution is concerned, it is foreseen because of the unprofessional and unconscious conduct of the business, we think it is a really broad formulation, that it should be more precise to determine, and that there would be no abuses we think this should simply be deleted and that this is not a reason to resolve the Ombudsman. My colleagues also spoke, and I will mention that immunity should be enjoyed by the public defender, the same as we do in this assembly, and some other officials, therefore, that he has absolute criminal and legal immunity for what he does. The availability of data is what we criticise. We don't think there should be any restriction there, that all data should be available to the public's protector, that there should be no restriction and that there should be words to be deleted - except when it's contrary to the law. In the end, let me also say that this is where the People's Office of the President of the Republic was mentioned. I want to say that within a year, that office has done a lot of things, a lot of things that have helped the citizens of Serbia, and you can inform yourself about that with citizens of Serbia, who have a good view of the people's office. It is certain that by adopting this law, part of the jurisdiction of the National Office will cease, but the People's Office will not cease to exist. It will continue to deal with a part of its work, which is helping citizens, collecting donor funds for school building, hospitals, their reconstruction and so on. So in order to continue to pass democratic laws, it is necessary to change the Constitution and I am now going to refer the question to this speaker, there is no President of the Assembly, what about the adoption of the constitution, why is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whose member I am? I don't think we've had any meetings for a year and what about the pre-election promise of the ruling coalition that when they come to power, the first thing that will bring it to the constitution. It seems to me that the ruling coalition has no desire to bring the constitution, for the simple reason that, if it is brought, there are extraordinary parliamentary elections and possibly local elections or elections at all levels. So, the ruling coalition doesn't like it at all, and I think that's why it cares about the constitution, because if the political will to bring the constitution was achieved here, and there's no choice, we'd get a new constitution very soon. I can order from this pay phone the ruling coalition - whether or not to bring the constitution, extraordinary parliamentary elections will be, as most Serbian citizens demand it. Serbian citizens live very hard, they want to change, they want to change, and you have to understand that. They expect you to keep your pre-election promises. You are unable to do so, then call the parliamentary elections to see what the citizens of Serbia think of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18977	Thank you, Mr. Zidic. When it comes to the constitution -- it will be written, and when it comes to promises -- this coalition has promised something less than the previous one to write a new constitution. How was the previous coalition, and how was this? The Messenger of the people Milka Silas, and the Messenger of the People, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, shall be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18978	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, this institution of the People's Lawyer or the Protector of Citizens or the ombudusman is as old and as human society as it is. We're missing it now. You know that our patriarchal society had, during its development, respected people in their midst who sought to exercise rights, or customs, or be what is good in society favored. Every society, including ours, goes through evolution. We had a vacuum in the development of this society, because our patriarchal society and our society are somehow missing. And societies such as the northern countries, especially Sweden, absolutely necessary for them, because of their marriage, because of how they lived, that this people's lawyer, or protector of the moral rights of the people, sort of went to the institution in 1800. We're kind of just now coming to the conclusion that we need it. I would like to talk about, as I do, that this tide of adoption of the law acts as a element of the alienation of the state from the citizens, and that is why it is necessary for the establishment of the institution of the protection of citizens. There's a deregulation going on in Europe. So it would be logical if the public defender wasn't needed. Since everything is becoming simpler and more understandable for the citizens, my firm belief is that all parliaments, all the countries of our continent, are passing laws of persuasion, serve society as a whole. The citizen has never seen the legal order in general, not 200 years ago, not today. One expert in a society based on division of work, no medic, no doctor, no technician sees the whole field of his profession because it's impossible. That even a lawyer can't rule all segments of law is in itself understandable. So the problem is not in the existence of a number of regulations, but there is a problem because of the small possibility that the citizen will gain insight into his rights. For every citizen, there are only a small number of laws and regulations of importance. Not everything is important to every man. In our time, almost unlimited technical opportunities and communication would be the obligation of the legislator, who represents the people, that precisely in that people from whom, ladies and gentlemen, legislators have received legitimacy, allow free, simple and quick access to the legal order. In Slovenia and in the countries of our environment on the Internet, there is a full insight into the legislation of each country. I'm an intensive advocate with a group of people for a similar solution to this problem, but we're very late here, and we've agreed to have some activity in particular, and that's what's called e-government, e-government, etc. Now let me point out on the legal basis of the existence of a people's lawyer. In the beginning, one little thought of quantity. At the extremes, citizens will suffer failure, whether it exists for example. one Ombudsman or for millions of citizens, whether each village has its own ombudusman. It's both wrong. It follows that jurisdiction should be just enough to enable a citizen, if he cares about it, every citizen, in the sense that I appeal to the emperor, as it is said, to have at least one problem received treatment and a time for personal reception with a national lawyer or a civil defender and the same. If the organ has rejected the citizen, then it must not be rejected by the Ombudsman. Now think about the quality of the ombudusman. If the Ombudsman is to raise confidence, then it is undoubtedly necessary that he is able to understand the intellectual and professional demand of citizens and to see the problem. He is obliged to provide the citizen with the highest professional and competent assistance and to communicate with the citizen on an equal footing, modest and patient basis, which will say that he must be a person of personal quality, as unfortunately rarely found in our society. Simeon should have high expertise and must be ready to be one object, whatever nature is, finally and fully assessed, to explain its judgment and to stand behind it. The function of the ombudusman, according to my knowledge, is well rewarded in most countries and citizens have the understanding that the function is made available to politicians in order to provide them with a function, better said not to be misused. If the Ombudsman comes from a political camp, then the other political option will be suspicious of him or will not have confidence in him at least for a long time. The smaller the environment, the more significant it is that the Ombudsman, viewed from within and outside, is indeed an independent size, which cannot be marked as a member of one or another camp and discredited by it. Manchester, as a rule, should not be a former politician, unless it would be the case that in the eyes of his fellow citizens his independence is indisputable to have the necessary professional competence. We know that there are more ombudusman institutions in Europe at regional and municipal level. This development is extremely valuable, because the services of ombdusman to fellow citizens are an expression of confidence in the need for human rights and represent, in any case, a major step in the way of preserving the rule of law and peace in the best sense of the word. Experience shows that the authorities of the administration show a different degree of precipice to inform the citizen, as a rule only by oral means, because if the citizen asked for something in writing, the administration would, as a rule, withdraw. Simeon must be prepared at any time to issue his or her oral information and notification in writing, with the application of copies of all cited legal standards, use of literature and quoted court practice and to document his opinion on the proposal in writing. The impotence of the ombudusman is proverbial, the story refers to the so-called so-called ombudusman. "soft lo" and most often binds to an ombudusman. The most frequently known possibility of ombdusman is to make recommendations to the authorities of the administration whose mistreatment has been established. It's not above the judicial authorities. With the power to verify legal irregularities, the Ombudsman, as minimum auxiliary measures, should recognise the right to make a formal recommendation, whereby the Authority should rightly be obliged not to provide an answer to the recommendation in writing to state the reasons for this. At the time of the constitution, most of the ombudusman institutions in Europe existed in a part of the population, a completely hostile picture opposite the administration. More instance of the administration and its management are normally filled with lawyers who have thus become the concept of the image of the enemy. Management with its top personnel is a personification of the collection of relevant knowledge, and it would not be celibate to oppose it's inexperienced and possibly ignorant partner. His competence is very important. He should be leveled in basic knowledge and in the field of special knowledge and will eventually be assessed only by the personality. The words of the minister of the second act of Beethoven's "Fidelia" apply to all in the same way: "Brother is looking for his brothers, and if he can help, he is happy to help." If he wants to, he can and does, then he's really ombudsman. The G17 plus will support this law, and hopefully the other parliamentary groups. This isn't the law that's gonna cause some trouble. This is the continuation of a common long-standing right of this people, which has always had the need for justice and the rule of morality, and we will establish rules through the introduction of as many laws as possible, because this area has long been an area without laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18979	The People's Messenger is the Prophet of the Prophet of Rade, then the Messenger of the people, Blagica Kostic, and the Messenger of the people Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18980	"The village is burning and the grandmother is combing," I find the most appropriate saying for this government proposal. In Serbia, where nothing works, where daily problems in Kosovo and Metohija are growing and increasingly pronounced, in which pensioners are threatened by reducing and abolishing pensions, in which the Serbian government daily shakes up the affairs that are being covered up, criminal affairs, in which Serbia continues to privatise businesses in a criminal way, the government has nothing to do but propose a law on the protection of citizens. If it's also from the government of Vojislav Kostunica, it's a lot. Therefore, I would like to see, Minister Loncar, whether you have the courage and if you believe, so that from this place you tell the citizens of Serbia -- dear citizens, you will now receive the protection of citizens, and in the name of the Serbian Government, I guarantee you that this protector will protect you so that no one will get fired again, that no one's company will be privatised in a criminal way, that no one will be reduced to pensions, etc. I don't think you can say that. If you can, it would be nice for the citizens to hear it. Therefore, the basic objection of the SRS parliamentary group is that the bill on the protection of citizens is unconstitutional. It is unacceptable for us that the minister, who is a professor at law school, comes out here and says that this bill is in line with some government draft constitution, which is given in the procedure, but which is still at that stage of the draft. That's unacceptable. I don't know what you'd like to get away from such a sentence, Minister Lonchart. It's not like you. You've heard concrete objections from the SRS to this law. And I will draw attention to only a few members, given that we have submitted appropriate amendments and that we will speak in the debate in particular. It is these amendments and what I am about to say that even if there were no of these insurmountable obstacles, and that is the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law, if there were not all of these problems that are much more difficult to solve in Serbia than this, then this text again has quite a number of objections that should be adopted by the Government, or by the Minister on behalf of the Government, so that at least this text should be adjusted as much as possible. Here, in Article 3(2), you say that a public defender can also educate offices outside his seat by making a decision. Well, how much longer? This Tadic's National Office in every municipality where Democrats are in power opens offices at that level. We have legal assistance services in local self-government, with a traditional experience and communication with citizens. As a minister, I assume you agree that in a few municipalities there are problems with that legal aid service. They mostly work in communication with citizens. Furthermore, what we were also against, another parallel organ -- protector at the level of the local self-government unit. Now here is the possibility that this great republican protector will open his offices in local self-government. All this comes down to additional costs for Serbian citizens and an opportunity for the ruling coalition to open up such interesting and well-paid jobs, where they can settle in various places that would eventually rebel against a proposal, and bring the government's most stable into question. Article 4, which is contrary to the Constitution, as well as the whole of the law, is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure adopted in this assembly, which I have nothing nice to say about, but whatever it is, while it is in force, should be respected. Article 5 tells you who may be elected Protector of the Citizens. They're interesting. 3) and 4) Article 1, that someone must possess high moral and professional qualities, that they have observed experience in protecting the rights of citizens. Depends on who's going to evaluate these traits you've predicted here. This looks like a moral-political likeness of some time. It should be a graduate lawyer who has at least 10 years of experience, these high moral and professional qualities and observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. Imagine that some MP group here is thinking of proposing and saying that Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco meets, and from the point of view of some parliamentary group perhaps fulfils these formal conditions. So this inaccuracy, this possibility of abuse, ridicule of this law, etc. It's unacceptable for us from the SRS. That's another reason why we won't vote for this law. In Article 8, you say, "It is considered that the Protector of the Citizens, i.e. the Deputy, has entered into office, etc.... "How can the law be considered? Either he got in or he didn't get on duty. In addition, this is regulated by rules relating to working relationships, and it is unnecessary to predict it in this way. I skipped article 7 talking about an oath, and my colleagues were talking about it. The second is that it is a controversial text of the oath, and the first is that it is impossible for someone to take an oath if that category, that institution is not foreseen by the Constitution. We also have objections to the article. 12, 17, 18, but in principle, I have to cut my discussion short because of the other colleagues who are going to speak. And the responsibilities of this civil defender, as provided for in Article 17, are not well-formed. We have proposed an amendment here. I don't want to comment on this much, you might want to accept that amendment, so that at least those competencies are in a different and valid way. In article 19, you say that the civil protection officer is authorized to initiate proceedings before the Constitutional Court. This is unnecessarily defined as special for the protection of citizens. Every citizen, and one who protects him, a protector, can take this initiative. What is provided for in Article 23, which has already been said here, is really controversial, not to say just interesting. What happens if the President of the Republic, the President and members of the Government, the President of the Assembly, the Constitutional Court, etc. does not receive protection of citizens within 15 days, as provided for by this law? Will the guardian of the citizens propose their resolution, will it be accepted here? There are no consequences. So this was unnecessary in this way to predict or, if it's foreseen, then it had to be a criminal provision -- what if this member was not respected. Besides, what if you don't respect any of these members, because you didn't see that coming. It is particularly interesting to have the final position in Article 25, which says, "Extremely, the Protector of Citizens can initiate the procedure before all legal means are exhausted, etc." I think it's really unacceptable that the public defender gets involved in some sort of possible process in this way, not to let regular legal resources be exhausted, so that he gets involved. I think you've given too much importance to this future protector of citizens, who won't be able to protect anyone from anything, as you predicted by this law. No citizen will be able to protect, or any institution from themselves. The transitional and final provisions; in Articles 39 and 40, you set deadlines that have been left quite wide and then you ask how long will this protecter of citizens receive only wages without doing anything, because that is how you predicted it in Articles 39 and 40. The assembly will elect the protector within six months of the date of entry into force of this law. The citizens' protector will submit a proposal for the election of deputies within three months of the day of entry into force, and the Assembly will elect deputies within two months of the day of submission. Imagine how many months it's been. This is at least 11 months. And in Article 40, a general act on the organisation and operation of the professional service, the protector of the citizens, will be delivered within 60 days of the day of entry into office. The reception of staff in the professional service of the citizens' protector will take place within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this act on organisation and work. So he himself can't, without this act and without employees, work. What he's going to do as long as this procedure is rounded up and these prison procedures really remain unclear. And it won't do anything then or after that, because as the bill of law is stipulated, the existence of this guardian of citizens is just another additional cost, and it would be nice and good for the ministers to withdraw this law, to propose in some other and better times in Serbia, you or someone who is after you, a law that will be more precise, clearer, and previously to adopt this Constitution, so that this law has a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18981	The People's Messenger Blagica Kostic has the word, then Sreto Perić, then Goran Rakovic. At the same time, I am informing you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the schedule of your time, because you are all prepared to hold a debate tomorrow from 10.00, in particular, on the point of state administration, that today will only be done until the conclusion of the principle debate on this agenda point, i.e., if necessary, it will be extended until the end, but I suppose, according to the schedule of time, therefore, today is the time of completion of the principled search by the citizens' protectors. Here you go, Mrs. Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18982	The Honorable chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, will support the introduction of the institution of protection of citizens, as it is one of the fundamental flows of democratically regulated states, but also the obligations arising from membership in the Council of Europe. The proposed law should also be a momentum for administration reform, more efficient work by state authorities and the development of democracy in general. The second thing is that the proposed law, in these conditions of the general crisis and in particular the degradation of the rule of law, seems a little funny and even sad. If we take into account inefficient and very often corrupt courts or at the level of local administration the Kabadiah government, or a government that, due to the maintenance of impossible coalitions or party interests, brutally violates human rights and freedoms, protecter of citizens with such defined powers acts as straw in the wind. In the rule of law, where it adheres to legal certainty, the protection of citizens has an enviable meaning. But in a country where laws are very often not applied, and executive power plays a dominant role, the protection of citizens is a far-reaching phenomenon, which could at best help when it comes to violations of human rights at local level. I'll remind Mr. Loncher of a case we have in Mionica. For a year now, a man has been coming to the meetings of the Parliament of Mionica who has not been on the election list at all. By the case in the village of Nanomir, there are a number of people named Zoran Dimitrijevic. It doesn't matter which list one of them was on, which is 1972. Unfortunately for all of us, and the Ministry of Local Self-Government has on several occasions been warned by DS and SPO representatives, a meeting of SO Mininica is attended by a man who was not at all on the electoral list and who is one 20 years older than the man who was on that list. If we had a public defender, of course, that man would react, and in a situation where we're the local government minister, he hasn't yet responded, and it's been more than a year since the case was advertised. But I will return to the law that is before us. At times when this assembly of the Assembly has delayed the formation and introduction of a administrative court for the next three years and when the existing administrative councils and the Supreme Court show the lowest possible degree of efficiency and urgency, it is difficult to expect that the protection of citizens' rights can be done by a protector of citizens. If such a sloppy and proven failure is given to judicial protection against administrative councils, what can be expected of a few lawyers organised in some professional service, armed only with goodwill and moral activity. In order for this unequal and at this point in advance of a lost battle to have any success, it would have to have wide-ranging assistance and legislative, judicial and executive powers. If we want the institution to protect citizens even in that minimum scope, we must also have more effective legal mechanisms in the state, a much higher level of legal certainty and a general awareness of the authorities. In order for the protection of citizens to work in the spirit of the proposed law, the functioning of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and the services of the Information Commissioners and the Constitutional Court and many others is necessary. We don't have that right now, unfortunately. In any case, if we want to change something, to create something, then we need a people's protector. That is why the proposed law - the law of the future, and our mission as MPs would have to be to increase the degree of independence of the public defender. The proposed provisions of Article 12 of this Law allow the common congregation majority to be removed from their functions. So it is enough for the ruling majority in the congregation to take the view that the public defender worked unprofessionally and unconsciously and has already been resolved. In such a situation, it is difficult to talk about the independence and independence of citizens' protectors. It would certainly be much greater if, for example, there was a provision that would provide for the unprofessional and unconscious conduct of the work to be established by the Court of Justice or by the Constitutional Court. That, unfortunately, doesn't work for us. Only this could contribute to the continuity and independence of the function of the National Protector. So here, too, it takes an independent body, such as the Grand Personal Council of the Supreme Court, which determines whether the legal conditions for the resolution of judges have been met. We need a professional, independent, party-independent, and above all a brave public defender, and we from the SPO sincerely believe that we will come to such a solution and come after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18983	The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18984	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we assume that at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly there will also be a law on the adoption of a law on the protection of citizens from the protection of citizens, because we suspect that this will be correct too. However, I would return to the saying of my esteemed colleague, Verica Radeta, who said the village is burning and the grandmother is combing, the firemen are putting out the fire with gasoline. About that is what this law means in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia at this point. A few days ago, we had two laws that regulate a very important area in the state of Serbia, which is the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Servants. Only counterpart Dusan Prorokovic said there is no ambition that everything will be perfectly regulated, and all the other speakers who support the government said it was ideal and that there would be no problems, that everything would be well solved. However, Minister Loncar, a respected professor of law school, had problems defending this law, because he certainly couldn't believe what it says here himself, and he should defend it. Someone complained about why an analysis was not carried out and why it did not call for the results of the work of the Ombudsman from Vojvodina. Of course it could not be called, because this man - Petar Theophilovic, when submitting a regular annual report to the APV Assembly, criticised citizen Milorad Mircic, the truth of the respected Serbian radical, as he said of the "Citizen's List". Whether it is the job and duty of the Ombudsman, or the protector of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as foreseen here. You have seen that the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 126, provides that local self-government can form defenders, i.e. to form a public defender, and, Minister, you know it well, that, apart from a few municipalities in Vojvodina, eight to nine, there is no one else. But I guess that's not based on that Law on Local Self-Government, it's based on the decision to form an Ombudsman in Vojvodina. Then there were about seven or nine municipalities that made such a decision, and it seems to me that something little works in Backo Palanca and Zrenjanina. I will specifically consider some of the members of this law. For example, Article 1, paragraph 3, says: "In the sense of citizens, in the sense of this law, not only does a natural person who is a local citizen, but every natural person is a foreign citizen, as well as any domestic or foreign legal person... "It is impossible, Minister, you probably know that it was never possible to formulate that a citizen is considered a domestic or foreign legal person. It's just not right. The public defender can educate offices outside his seat by a decision. We know that there are two offices in Vojvodina, in Pancheva and Subotica, in Serbia, counting on this case and Vojvodina, it will take a lot more. We assume that a large number of Serbian citizens, their deputies, would be defined - four. Since there is an opportunity to educate offices in Serbia, then it would be much more, it would take much more material resources. I don't think the state of Serbia could accept so many officials at this time to solve this problem, and they're essentially not going to be able to do anything, because it's known, as you said, that this law is being passed on the basis of the draft constitution that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did last year. It's impossible based on some draft constitution, which nobody knows, because we MPs weren't able to see that draft, and even if we did, it doesn't mean anything by itself. So there's really no basis for passing a law like this. You know that well. It'll probably be a problem for him to live, but he certainly does because of the employment of a certain number of persons. We've been able to hear in the parliamentary benches who prepares, who has serious ambitions to become one. It would be terrible if so, because one minister, in the community of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, should be controlled by his wife. Of course, many moan that NGOs do not have the right to suggest who might be the protector of citizens. In Article 5, under conditions, which my colleagues have spoken of, I just have to repeat, it is envisaged which conditions should be met by the protector, so it is said that he is a graduate lawyer; this is the only objective condition that can be seen and which makes sense here to stand; at least 10 years of experience, no job experience has been envisaged so far for any 10-year experience. As a result, a specific preparation can be made for the precise person, that he had observed experience in the jurisdiction of the public defenders. Who are these, are lawyers, judges, other graduate lawyers at other jobs? You heard it was first, but only on request or on a proposal from a small number of citizens in Serbia could it be those in NGOs who "proposed" to protect citizens' rights, to possess high moral and professional qualities. It's also one of the premises that isn't defined and that reminds us of the one -- socio-political. Of course, we'll talk more about it in amendments. There are a lot of objections that can be pointed out to this law. If we engage, even though we have made an effort to see with parallel practice how it is regulated, what effects the protector gives in practice, although it is an institute almost 200 years old, some results have not been observed in practice. In Serbia, there is no need for such an institute, at least not at this moment, and later, when there is a real foundation in the Constitution and when some other things are clearly defined, then there will be a need for a Serbian citizen's protector. There could be a lot of talk about this, but given that there are a number of MPs from the SRS, who also want to talk about this, I will give them space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18985	Thank you, Mr. Perry. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, and then the People's Messenger Slobodan Vukovic, and Nadika Momirov, the People's Messenger. Here you go, Mr. Rakovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18986	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, as we can see, this law has caused a lot of controversy. No wonder, since it is a young institution in European theory and practice, which is coming to us and in recent years has entered our legal system, however, entered a small door, but with great noise. I say -- with great noise, there were many who supported and insisted on introducing such an institution, primarily through the Law on Local Self-Government. But also, no less noisy and those who challenged an institution like this. Although, therefore, in the Law on Local Self-Government, we already have an ombudsman institution, although for several years as an institution it exists in our legal system, today's debate confirms that we still have advocates of those who, at any cost, believe that such an institution should be raised to a higher level. So to form an ombudsman institution at a republican level, but there were no numbers and those who still dispute only the existence of such an institution. I don't think they're right either. The fact is that this young institution in European law, as my predecessor said, has, about 200 years since it left Sweden, expanded mainly to all European legislation, has such advantages as to be incorporated and foreseen in our legal system. The prediction in our legal system means that this institution adapts to our conditions, existing conditions, existing theories and practices of our legal system. I think that this law, which lies before us today, in the form of the proposal, has just rightly balanced what, by introducing this institution, on the one hand, will, in relation to what our legal system is, what is our legal practice, what is our current constitution, with the limitations it has and that the solutions given in this law are entirely optimal and acceptable, and that, as such, this Parliament should support them. So, the fact is that this institution exists, as I said, in most European legislation, of course under different names, but also with different content. The question that we use in the Law on Local Self-Government is the term: a civil defender, that in this law, which is before us, the term protector of citizens is used, and that, for example, in Vojvodina, the accepted term - ombudsman, I don't think it's really worth any larger controversy here. It is important for us to raise this institution to a republican rank. So, to be an institution, to be a civil servant at a republican level, and the time and practice of implementing this law and the work of our future guardian of citizens, or civil defender or Ombudsman, call it whatever you want, will in time show whether it justifies the reasons why this law is being passed. I would like to list several common features that exist in parallel law and which characterize the very institution of the Ombudsman and I would like to compare that with the proposals contained in this law, for the reason that these basic characteristics, which one such institution should have, are fully in this law and are fully respected by the law. First of all, the Ombudsman is the protector of the rights of citizens and, above all, the protector of bad, incompetent, unprofessional, unprofessional, sometimes arrogant administrations. So, in this case, given that we have an institution of the republican importance of the state administration, the law has defined this already in the first article and through all the other members and fully respected this general objective and the general task that the Ombudsman institution is to achieve. As a rule, the ombudsman in parallel law is a body of parliament, a body that directly elects parliament and is not elected in any other way and is generally chosen from the ranks of non-party persons, which is also fully respected in the provisions of this law. The independence of the Ombudsman, in order to meet the goals set before it, is also one of the essential characteristics. This law shows this independence and shows itself primarily in the way it is chosen, therefore by parliament, but on the other hand, and the way the Ombudsman is financed. It is, therefore, a civil servant who annually submits a proposal for his own costs and whose resources for work as institutions are foreseen in the Republic budget. The work of the Ombudsman himself is to protect the citizens first of all from the authority of the administration. In addition to legality, the Ombudsman also appreciates the overallity of the work of the authorities and public servants. Of course, in this respect, he has the right to examine them, criticises them, so he can do everything with them and informs the public, parliament once a year, all except that he metrically resolves and annuls the acts of the Authority of Administration, which is clear and unequivocal and is in line with the principle of the division of power. Simeon must also be easily available to those whose interests should be protected, so to the citizens themselves. Therefore, the law provides for it to act on citizens' complaints, as well as on its own initiative, if it comes to the knowledge that the authorities of the administration have in some way violated the rights of citizens. The important thing is that ombudsman services are free of charge, so they are not subject to any fees or other expenses. The power of the Ombudsman is based, above all, on his authority. Behind his authority, I am talking about personal authority, it must also be Parliament's authority, so that the future institution of the protection of citizens will have as much strength as this parliament will have and will elect him and will stand behind him, to whom he will submit the reports. Finally, one issue that is controversial, which has been mentioned here on several occasions, which is the question of the Ombudsman's legislative initiative, which is not fully respected at this time in this bill, but with full law, as the minister explained, and several speakers also referred to this problem. The solutions contained in our Constitution are such that the direct legal initiative of the Ombudsman cannot be foreseen in the proposal for this law, but therefore an initiative headed towards the Government is envisaged. If this parliament has enough authority and if it stands behind the Ombudsman with that authority, then the initiatives that he is forwarding to the government will also have a certain power, so that the government, which is legally required to consider them, will have to accept them, will have to have a lot of arguments if it wants to reject them. In any case, by passing this law, our country ranks in the order of modern states, with modern legislation. The law fully, as I was saying at the beginning, respected our legal system, our legal practice. It needs to be brought in, and time will show whether the capacity of this law is optimal. I don't think at this point a better text could have been brought in. For these reasons, the DSS parliamentary group will support this law, which is also the act in the speeches of its MPs and in the day of voting to vote for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18987	Thank you, Mr. Rakovac. The People's MP Slobodan Vukovic, then the People's MP Nadica Momirov, and then the People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18988	Ladies and gentlemen, one institution has as much power as that organ that chooses it. There have already been talks here about it and it has been defended that parliament should choose, that it is a tradition etc. I don't think that with us as it is proposed it will contribute anything to the authority and that this Ombudsman, that protecter of citizens, is really going to have the kind of authority that he should have and how the lawmaker represents to us that he will have it. In fact, it is possible that only 64 MPs of this assembly will choose a protector of the citizens. Undoubtedly, it will be the majority, that political majority in the Assembly and that citizens who are not in that majority will not be represented in a certain way, regardless of what is said to be an independent body, that they will be a moral, political and professional independent person, etc. So, I don't think there's any reason for the Assembly to do that, if this is how it's presented. Citizens know best who can protect them and why the ruling majority should do so to them. The state body is also the President of the Republic and is elected by citizens directly and directly, and why citizens should not propose themselves, as some professional institutions have proposed here, and some NGOs, should not be viewed with some animosity, that citizens propose and that citizens propose and resolve, as well as to choose the protection of citizens. That's one thing. The second question is efficiency, which has not been brought to a certain level in this law. In fact, it is said here that the public defender will have four assistants, or deputies, and Article 28 says he is obliged to respond to every complaint by the public's protector and to initiate the proceedings under each complaint. How one protecter of citizens, with his four deputies, will be able to do so in such a legal and administrative disorder as it is in our country. It is said that he will be able to establish offices, and there is no telling what these offices will be able to do and what their partial business will be, which will be their authority. In fact, there's no authority in that direction. The special thing is that someone has already apostrophe, and that is that unprofessional and unconscious functioning can be a reason to resolve the protection of citizens. It is one thing that will give the ruling majority the opportunity to protect citizens who do not answer to change it, because it is an unconditional term and subject to a political and subjective assessment of what it is, inextricably and unconsciously, doing business. Furthermore, it is said here that the protecter of citizens acts only on administrative matters. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have a case with a civil defender, where he also deals with judicial matters, not in terms of judgment but in terms of procedure. We've now had a flagrant case of breach of court procedure, that a citizen was placed at the Department of Security and Treatment for one decision that was completely unsustainable. If it had been for the Ombudsman, it certainly wouldn't have happened. In such cases, why would a breach of the procedure or by delaying the procedure, without taking into account the scale of the matter, not be hired by the protector of the citizens? Some provisions are completely unclear, i.e. they do not have their sanctions. It is said that the government is obliged to consider initiatives submitted by the citizens' protector. It's not said within what time, when, with which procedure and with what fact. So she's mandatory, and when she's mandatory, she can consider it in a year, she doesn't have any deadline. Someone said it doesn't make sense that a civil protection officer can file a motion to initiate the Constitutional Court procedure. It can really be every citizen, but there is a lack of constitutional basis for this law. It should be assumed that the protector of the citizens has a championship in front of the constitutional court. We can't do that, probably because of the Constitution itself, but these are your failures and special public issues. It's a public matter. Publicity among citizens' protectors, whose main weapon is moral, must be well processed. It is said in Article 20 -- the public defender is authorized to publicly recommend the resolution of officials. Article 31 refers again to the public, and does not specify how it will come to the public, whether the means of public information and the media are required to publish it, under what conditions, how, how, within what time. The public is mentioned, and that question is not regulated at all, absolutely not regulated and remains out of the reach of this law, beyond any function. In the end, I think it should be pointed out that it is very useful to finally raise the issue of protection of citizens -- the Ombudsman in our country, unfortunately, in one way only in the tracks, something that will be so that we have an ombudsman, that we have a protector of citizens on paper, and in fact it will be a "godly guide" that will spray us a little bit, but there will be no fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18989	The People's Messenger Nadica Momirov has a word, then a People's Messenger, Bozidar Koprivica, and, if there is a time until the break, MP Petar Cvetkovic, depends on the length of the talk of the predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18990	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this law not only establishes the institution of protection of citizens, i.e. The most important function of this institution, which is to protect and improve human freedoms and rights in one society, but also to strengthen the democratisation process, which is clearly tracked in Serbia. G17 Plus will support this law, because this law facilitates the establishment and development of institutions that should lead to the protection of individuals from the illegal and poor work of the authorities and we will vote for this law for the most significant reason, which is a guarantee for achieving the principle of equality of citizens before the law. The G17 plus-the law is known to be the same for everyone. In Serbia's legal system, the institution found its place in the territory of the AP Vojvodina in 2002 by a decision of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and local self-government by the Law on Local Self-Government, also in 2002. The very establishment of these institutions in these territories has made it clear that continuity is needed to continue. The history of the existence of an institution of protection of citizens is a debt, beginning with Sweden, or Scandinavia, considered to be the cradle of this institution. Everyone who's had contact with Scandinavia or who's been there, the first thing they can spot, which is the excellent functioning of this institution. Therefore, it does not matter at all what the name of that institution or the seat of that institution is. You, living in such a country, need no contact with such an institution at all, because the system of values is so built and established that you do not ultimately need to address to protect your rights. Later, when it became known the effect of the institution's work, the institution itself is being established in other countries. So today we can find out that there are about 130 countries. In our country, which is also in the process of transitioning the establishment of the rule of law and where democratic processes are still under way, it is clear that the establishment of such an institution of protection of citizens should have priority. G17 plus believes that the work of this special independent institution, which will supervise the work, above all the authorities of the state administration, public services, authorities of local self-government, therefore, of all those entities that directly decide on the rights and obligations of citizens, will lead to a stronger and better quality society of the state system, what we believe we should have and what we deserve.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18991	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica, and then MP Petar Cvetkovic, I think there will be time during the afternoon.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18992	Dear People's MPs, the bill on the protection of citizens is another one in a series of laws that has no basis in the Constitution and which I claim will never be applied. It is completely unnecessary to create special and new state institutions, which will deal with the "skiller of citizens' rights". It is also absolutely unnecessary to create and form an independent state body, which will allegedly protect citizens' rights and control the work of the state administration, when there are other regular authorities in our legal system. The rule of law, according to Serbian radicals, and the development of the rule of law should and must be the primary goal of every country, including ours. And the principle of power-sharing has just contributed to the development of the rule of law and the functioning of all mechanisms for protecting the rights of citizens who already exist. Practically, as suggested, so-called. The protection of the rights of citizens is neither judicial nor administrative, and it does not make any measurement decisions, so a question arises as to what its role is. Its role will be to give an opinion, a proposal, a warning, without any sanctions, and I repeat the sanctions again, for the person who is committing a violation of the right, and therefore it cannot be even the control authority, given the position, jurisdiction of the protector, as you have proposed in this bill. The provisions of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia do not know such an institute, so this is what I said in advance about the anti-constitutional law. The adoption of this law will not contribute to the protection of an individual from the poor work of the state administration, but it represents, of course, we all know that, the solution imposed on you by the EU. You know that well. This otherwise bad law, I am confident, will never be applied, will only unnecessarily and additionally burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as certain material resources are needed to start the work of protectors and civil protection services. So you're dragging your hands into our citizens' pockets again. It is absolutely unnecessary to introduce an authority that will in practice never live and will not have any effect, because its decisions, now I say as a lawyer, legally non-binding, are not measurement decisions, but only warning measures, opinions and proposals, initiatives, which can actually be done by any other body, or even by a citizen. Serbian radicals believe we do not need a formal vision of control that will not bind anyone. Caution works, the SRS has invested a large number of amendments to try to fix this otherwise very bad law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18993	The People's MP Petar Cvetkovic has the word, and if there is a time then Radisa Ilic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not be in debt to explain this bill, as Mr. Minister, as well as members of the DSS, did in this afternoon's session in an appropriate manner and understandably. I would have a little bit of controversy, or a dose of controversy in considering this law, but apparently those of the opposition who dispute the law does not have, so it's hard to argue with them. After all, they're not consistent in the term, so I'm going to argue with their attitudes, or with the attitudes they've expressed here. I didn't mention anything to the Lord of Radicals. They expressed their views, I thought of another political group, which represents and represents, if you followed it, we would have come to this, which, for its political philosophy and its programme, takes the recommendations of a consultation. All right, well, we don't know those counselling recommendations, but that's what all the MPs got a few months ago, and it looks like only some of them kept it and brought up these views. However, I would also point out that according to this consultation, the fundamental thing to say about the bill, which we are considering, is only one sentence -- participants of the round table agreed that the proposal for a law on the protection of citizens in a significant part was fully in line with the standards reached in democratic societies in this area. That's how much I should have said to the gentlemen who question themselves, who thinks they're reformers, and us from the DSS, the government and Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Kostunica to the brakes of reform, and they say it's premature with the law. How do reformers prevent reform, reform that is in the principles and spirit of Western European democracies and the European Union, the community we seek? How is this premature law, which is not premature to the Law on Local Self-Government, where it is completely nakaradic in one part of the matter, which I do not need to explain, inserted and protected by citizens, without constitutional basis as well. How is there an Ombudsman at the level of Vojvodina, the word is originally Swedish and means protector, without being at the level of the Republic of Serbia. That it is not, ladies and gentlemen, that they argue that this institute exists only at the level of Vojvodina, which is the region in Sweden, given that it is an Ombudsman, not in Serbia. Well done to the Ministry and Government for the bill. It is necessary in law that one institution, i.e. the body that is being introduced by such a law, has a name in the spirit of legal history and institutions, the traditions of Serbian society and the Serbian state. That is why it is perfectly appropriate for it to be the protector of the citizens, as suggested, not the Ombudsman, with some meaning that is completely abstract and totally contrary to the knowledge, knowledge and the usual rules in Serbia. So, the Ombudsman was successfully implemented in Vojvodina and there should be, and we have to wait in Serbia. It's probably the older state of Vojvodina, according to them, so I'm going to say it like they say it is, as they like to say. Does this mean, and is the criticism of the law itself, the insistence that Serbia does not have the protection of citizens, and that it is given to lower levels of government, whether it is a kind of vision or a insistence, will probably respond to this, will you not be able to keep quiet, is this an effort to further collapse Serbia's state? This proposal for a law on the protection of citizens is not a desire to centralise Serbia, as we heard this morning, or today. They are precisely with a different name than the names of protectors in Vojvodina or protectors at the local self-government show, as the law states, that they have different powers, that the republican protection of citizens protects republican laws and violates republican laws, and controls the conduct of the authorities applying these republican laws and endangers the rights and freedoms of citizens. This means that they are even processing in one part of the law and what will happen if the local public defender, or the province ombudsman, is subject to a request which, by its content and essence, should be resolved by the protection of citizens at the level of the Republic. It is clear and visible from the bill how much one who criticises the law, proposes solutions or references amendments wants to be well-intentioned. It is completely incomprehensible for me that they point out that there is no constitutional basis for the introduction of civil protectionists, and they don't even mention what constitutional basis it is, and by what law it is called, the function of the National Office. How much of a people's office proves that I can't remember her name. So, the people's office, by which is the constitution and by which law and in whose organization, who prescribed the procedure. Is it according to the Swedish Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, the government and the competent ministry, respecting all the limitations of the Constitution, have given the best proposal for a law on the protection of citizens. No law is ideal, I've mentioned it many times. The law becomes ideal during application and changes and additions are sometimes necessary and possible in its application. No initial text of the law, at least in history, has happened, is in that extreme and ideal form brought forward. He's subject to change and supplementation. Thus, in its application, these solutions made by the law will point to any good solutions and possibly less good solutions to be changed. There's no dilemma. This parliament is in charge of both the adoption and the amendment of the law. So, in terms of those solutions that the existing constitution allows, I estimate that this is a complete solution in accordance with international rules, in the spirit of legal tradition and in the spirit of our legal system. The dilemma whether to apply the constitution or to give solutions is also a solution from this consultation, and it is one that is guaranteed not to be a lawyer, so he suggested that 15,000 citizens propose protection to citizens. Whether to apply the Constitution or not, and even have some representations about not applying the Constitution, and too much reminds us of that famous saying sent to the judges a few decades ago -- the comrades of the judge, don't stick to the law as a drunk float. So now these pragmatic ones of ours would not stick to the Constitution but to invent a civil defender, to be elected directly by the citizens in the elections, who else would. Or better yet, to be proposed by Soros and selected by some NGOs. That solution would be in the spirit of those critics. The other problem is that there are no essential criticisms in opposing this law. The main problem with the opposition to this law is what then with the people's offices, which are "famous" for this time past. Then what are the people's offices going to do? They'll go to the soup kitchens. I apologize for the inconclusiveness. I'll just say two more words, since we're running out of time in the morning, I'm going to say two more sentences about what jurisdiction is, because there was a dilemma about what is the jurisdiction of the public's protector and what he can do when he doesn't have authority, force, when he can't punish. The body, i.e. the institution of the protection of citizens anywhere in the world, and not by this law, is intended either as a court, nor as an administrative body, nor as a paradour, nor as a state. It is a state body that points to irregularities, especially in the application of individual acts, and can also point to some phenomena that need to be amended by new laws through legislative initiatives. So it's not the public's protector who can suspend an organ's decision. The public defender is not that either, and that's what we heard from this pay phone, so that he can judge the work of the courts. He would then be an organ over the organs, yet ideally -- to be elected by NGOs, according to Soros, and then to manage even the Assembly and the Government. It would be an ideal situation in the destruction of the Serbian state. It is a criticism, and Mr. Radosavljevic will come out to explain it, not to throw it away. Behavior is the basis of culture, and that will explain when it comes to order after a break. The apparition that we don't have lawyers who have been protecting citizens' rights for 10 years, because, like, just a few years there is democracy, it's completely absurd, because we have lawyers who have been protecting citizens' rights and the freedom of citizens for 60 years. Guys, it's a lawyer. They've been doing this job for 60 years. They have 80 and change. This criticism that we do not have personnel and that we need to reduce the required years of work experience, is simply directed to make the protection of citizens as little as professional as possible and to fully eliminate the desire to create a serious body that will be incorporated into the legal system of the state. Also, to advocate that the protection of citizens can be of some other profession, except legally, is at least problematic. I may not have opened all the controversy in my performance, but I am willing to hear the answers of those who consider themselves called.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18995	Mr. Cvetkovic, thank you for your time. Since I will not allow a replica based on the laps, because it is clear that it is not the conduct of culture, but rather the culture of behavior, I most culturally apologize to Mr. Ilic, he will have the word in 15.05, until the break, and then the MP of the people Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, and the MP Branislav Stevanović. [[After breaks – 15,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day. We continue the afternoon work, the main debate of the 7th item of the agenda of the 11th extraordinary session. There is a word, as we announced at the end of the afternoon, first MP Radisa Ilic, then Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, then Branislav Stevanović. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is another in front of us in a series of laws presented to the public as an important link of future relations with the EU. The proposal for a law on the protection of citizens will have more importance for us to adopt it because of the EU's demands and recommendations, not to go into its application immediately. This "chard" of ours in heaven or on earth can very easily turn into something quite the opposite of what this law provides. You have proposed to the institution as a special authority and you yourself acknowledge that it is neither the authority of the administration nor the judicial body nor the legislative authority. It's a line running. This protecter of citizens should represent some kind of a scarecrow for those who will not pay attention to such a protector of citizens. Of course, for disfigured and powerless citizens in front of the state, the public defender will look like someone who will be their shoulder to cry on in perspective, and their current colleagues from the National Office know it best. The government's intention was immediately questioned, when the proponent in the explanation on page 2 wrote that the final version of the bill took part, in addition to experts from the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the province's Ombudsman from Vojvodina, which is probably some Cankov column from 2002, and a number of non-governmental organisations from Serbia, which the Kobajagi are engaged in protecting human rights and freedoms. It is not likely that in writing this law the participation of NGOs led by Natasa Kandić, the anti-Serbian feather, Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht and many others. I would like the government's representative to tell us what NGOs have participated in the public debate and whether even some of their suggestions have been incorporated into the proposed text. An analysis of certain members of the law will try to point to their illogicality, and would also suggest their mutual opposition. This law provided for the broad powers of citizens' protectors in order to truly protect the rights of citizens of Serbia, as well as of foreign citizens, as stated in Article 1. In practice, this law will serve to train strictness towards an official who has not taxied a request addressed to the commissioner, or a cadasar reference if he accidentally erred in issuing a copy of the plot, so the citizen complained. They will certainly suffer, but it is a question of whether the protection of citizens will respond to high officials if the law or the rights of the citizen of this country are denied. Just here, from this assembly pay phone daily talk about the many abuses of individuals in government authorities throughout Serbia. And that should also be a signal for the protection of citizens' actions. This legal proposal gives the protection of citizens equal to 13 powers which, in themselves, are quite broad and provide the possibility of abuse. So, when we see the kind of 13 powers, we see that we're still missing the possibility that the public defender is bringing people in as needed, so that this whole thing looks like that Department of Peoples' Protection. The first member is said to represent an independent state body, which will control the work of state administration authorities and protect citizens' rights. If it is known that the civil protection officer is elected on a proposal from the parliamentary groups, and this will be on a proposal from the ruling coalition, how the citizen's protector will react to the obvious violations of the law by the director or head of the ranks of those parties that the citizens' protectors have chosen in the assembly. It will be the first and the right test for what is written in Article 1. Article 5(3) sets out the conditions for selecting a person to be protected by citizens, which is to possess high moral and professional qualities. And now imagine what the law further provides, when a high moral and professional person is elected to protect the citizens, and what can be read in Article 8 and Article 13(2). Article 8, unless the protection of citizens as a high moral and professional person after the elections in the National Assembly appears within 30 days of taking office, they will be called off and another protecter of citizens will be elected. So much for the high-moral personnel that the ruling coalition has brought here and who, as a moral person, will not report to work. If a civil protection officer shows up at his workplace, what the proposer predicted in Article 13(2) may do. This article provides for a suspension for the protection of citizens if it is found to have been convicted of a criminal offence that makes it inadequate to perform its duties, and the verdict has not become legal. Well, what a high moral protector of the citizens, proposed and voted by the ruling coalition, has been convicted here. This is just proof that representatives of the ruling parties are not at all sure about the people who propose and place them in responsible places, which are in fact the opposite of what the rules and ethical norms tell them. Davinic is the freshest example of the ruling coalition, the kind of personnel it places on the most responsible functions in the country. Also, in Article 5(4), the retailer is trying to introduce certain NGOs into the system of protection of citizens. How else to interpret the point 4) that reads - that it has seen experience in protecting citizens' rights, except that this masked drags Natasa Kandic and the entire accompanying anti-Serbian Corps. Article 17 contains a number of citizens' protectors who are not authorized to exercise labour control, so the courts and public prosecutors are mentioned, which is normal. But it is not normal for a 20-year-old civil defender to put himself in a position to resolve, or seek his resignation because of alleged violation of the rights of the citizen. And it happens, let's say, this is the situation. A citizen's protector is plowing down on some head of state in a city for alleged violation of justice. The public defender then exposes him to public criticism and humiliation in the media, among colleagues and administration workers. The whole case comes to court and in court it turns out the Chief was right and gets a dispute. Then what? How will someone, including the guardian of the citizens, make up for a man's moral and material damage? Will the civil defender be able to handle the consequences? It will not, because it is protected by a member of the 10th in which it is said - the protecter of citizens cannot be called to account for opinions, criticism or proposals that have been given in the performance of his duties. It remains for us to see, if this law is passed, that the Protector of the Citizens will carry out his duty. Knowing the effects of personnel of the ruling coalition so far, it is unlikely that anything will improve in relation to the state, that is, its authorities and its citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18998	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, then a National MP, Branislav Stevanovic, and a National MP, Milica Gavrilovic. Here you go, Mrs. Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u18999	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens, the G17 Plus parliamentary group will support the law on the protection of citizens. I'll try to explain very briefly for what reasons. What makes the Civil Protection Act so important? I would like to point out that this assembly has passed a large number of laws in various areas and the G17 parliamentary group plus to a large number of these laws is very proud. These are laws in the area of economics, justice, in other areas, those are the laws that we have tried to make the state of Serbia a modern, stable state and to lead the way of the European Union. It's something that the G17 plus parliamentary group fully supports. But one state, a stable, serious and modern state, does not primarily involve economies, or the judiciary, or state institutions. It is, above all, made by a Serbian citizen. The Serbian citizen is the centre of this country, he is the creator of reforms, he is the one who is the goal of reform and the citizen of Serbia is the goal of all of us. So this law in its very center and what it says, and the matter it regulates, puts the citizen of Serbia, and that is what we, first of all, want to support as a good way to achieve the human rights of every citizen in Serbia. Only a citizen who is aware of his rights, who is fully aware of what his rights are, can be an active factor in creating standards and standards that will make our society. That's what's very important to us. That's why we think this law is one of the basic laws that we have to pass if we want to go this way. Of course, we support this law and because of the concrete norms it adopts, above all because of the possibility that a citizen and in another way, not through all those who have been standard, protect their rights and fully achieve their role in society. The protection of citizens is, above all, one control institution. It is an institution that will oversee the authorities of the state administration, the public service, the authorities of local self-government and all those bodies with which a citizen directly comes into contact whenever his right is questioned. What is very important and what this law, we think, is very well regulated, is primarily one broad availability to the protection of citizens. So, in a good way, this law introduced the possibility that every citizen of Serbia could reach the public's protector. How? By predicting the possibility of forming offices across Serbia that will deal with the protection of citizens' rights, by allowing every citizen to reach his protector at no cost, and by obliging the services he will work for the protection of citizens to provide full assistance to every citizen in case he is unable to write or formulate his own demands. Also, what is very important is the provision of this law, it is an independence that enables citizens' representatives. So he won't be dependent on anyone, and that way we think he's just fine and we support the fact that this law is potential, which is that a citizen's representative should not be a member of any political organisation. In doing so, of course, he does not think it is bad to deal with politics and that quality people should not deal with politics, but, of course, that the citizen's representative should not be a member of the political party, because the programme and direction of the political party should not be binding on citizens' representatives. It simply must represent all citizens to the full, regardless of what their political, religious, national or any other beliefs or belongings are. Also, what is very important and what I consider to be good in this law is the fact that all the authorities of the administration have an obligation to co-operate with the public defender and that all information must be fully available to him. What is also very good is the fact that a citizen's representative will be able to enter every institution and will have full access to those who are deprived of freedom. So, another human right that is potent with this law. I would also like to stress that I am particularly pleased that this law takes special account of, through the regulation of possible specialities for citizens' deputies, who will deal in particular with children's rights, persons deprived of liberty, national minorities and persons with disabilities. Of course we also support the intervention that women should also be part of these groups. But I also want to point out one particular area, which is the area of child rights protection. There was a thought that there was a special deputy protecter of citizens, who would deal with children's rights, but I can bring it directly, today after a meeting of the child's rights subcommittee, that we received information from the Ministry of Social Affairs, that there is already a draft law on child protection, therefore, one special institution that will particularly deal with children's rights. I believe this is a very good solution, because children's rights are really special to all other human rights. What the child rights protector will include is the principle of participation that, I must say, this law does not contain. So, if there is a grudge, it is, first of all, the objection that, as far as the general protection of citizens is concerned, it is not fully available to children because it does not involve the participation of children in the exercise of its rights. In the end, I'll end up with a quote that says, "Did you read the UN Charter of Human Rights? It's the most humane law in human history. Of the five billion human beings living in the world, each of them depends to the fullest extent whether this law remains a dream or becomes a reality. You're one of those human beings. "The G17s plus deputies are fully aware of their responsibilities and are fully aware of the fact that each of us, first and foremost, and then of every citizen of Serbia, depends on whether human rights in Serbia will be fully respected. In that sense, we support this law and invite others to join us in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19000	Thank you, Mrs. Plassic. The word is by MP Branislav Stevanovic, then MP Milica Gavrilovic, then Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19001	Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, we had a proposal for a law on mediation, now we have a protection of citizens, and we have to admit that both have similar powers and rights. One and the other, if we look at it, are mostly good proposals on paper, but in practice, unfortunately, there won't be any special effect. The only thing that will be further burdening our budget is this weak economy. We MPs of the SRS believe that it is an excessive function, an excessive institution, where, if we consider local self-government, the province, that there would be more of these people who would simply be a burden on our own budget anyway. The powers of protectors to be able to influence changes and additions of laws, then, that they can monitor law enforcement, which is not in practice, nor can it have any concrete effect in certain judicial processes, but simply carry out certain controls, which simply would not bring about a special effect and would not produce any specific results. When considering the choice of protectors, it should also be pointed out that, however, there are certain illogicalities in the constitutionality of the elections, because in most countries in the environment, where they have regulated it, two-thirds of the Assembly decide on this. However, we have a problem with constitutionality, and there would be a narrow majority who would decide. When it is said that an extra-party personality would have to be placed in that place, that means that it would certainly not be so, but usually be set up by a man who would be the extended hand of the current government, who would work in the interests of the current government more than in the interests of the Serbian citizens themselves and solve the respective problems of individuals. Especially if we consider the accumulated problems in the privatisation itself, where the vast number of our citizens are damaged. I don't think he could provide adequate assistance, because it is a large number of personal items and a large number of people are damaged in Serbia. Therefore, we Serbian Radical Party MPs do not see that it would be of great benefit to the public's protector. Especially considering that it is said here that it is an extra-party personality, and the very proposal of that protector would be decided by NGOs, which we believe, given that, having practical experience with NGOs, cannot be in the interest of the people, because these are some organizations that we have repeatedly heard about and what these people are dealing with. So these people certainly shouldn't be involved, and if that happens, you're in the majority and you'll probably vote, but you should consider, if possible, those NGOs that have their own suspicious jobs, that you deprive them. It should also take into account the protection of our citizens, who unfortunately went neither guilty nor debtor to The Hague, should take more care of them and more care of their protection because it is known that more for political reasons there have been brought in there than they are guilty of anything at this time. Lately, as citizens' protectors, unfortunately in a political sense, Mr. Covic, who is now trying to regain the crowds, gathers unions and tries to push through some demagogue in such a way as to gain some voting body, and even more dirty work is done by Mr. Karic, who also stands out as the protector of his dirty political game and campaign, and the people are based on it, believes that he has made quite short of himself and has now decided to help the people. Such people, as well as NGOs, really should not be trusted and strictly distanced from such personalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19002	Thank you, Mr. Stevanovic. The word has a National MP, Milica Gavrilovic, then a National MP, Nemanja Sarovic, then a National MP, Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the introduction of the citizens' institution has been almost 200 years, although this institution exists in about 130 countries, it has not yet been legally brought to life in our country. In fact, the 2002 Law on Local Self-Government provides for the possibility of establishing such an institution, but so far it has only been established in two cities and successfully implemented. It's about Backo Topoli and Zrenjanin. Manchester or the protection of citizens is a specific institution that controls the work, both the authorities of the administration and public officials, or the authorities of local self-government, or all those bodies that decide on the rights and obligations of the citizens themselves. In September 2003, the decision formed and established the first circuit ombudsman. In many countries, ombudsmans or civil defenders exist at different levels, starting with local, regional and national. In some countries, there are even specialised areas for which the ombudsmans are responsible. Let's say, specifically for the protection of the rights of the child, then for the protection of personal data or for the theme of housing. How far has it gone in the development of this institution shown the best example of the European Ombudsman, thus raising the institution to a supranational level. However, there are some features that are related to all ombudsmen, i.e. citizens' protectors, wherever they are. It is primarily that they protect citizens' rights from inefficient, unprofessional and irresponsible administrations, to act on their own initiative or at the request of the citizens themselves, to be completely independent of the executive and, as a rule, possess a legislative initiative. Now he will no longer be able to tolerate the incompetent and irresponsible behaviour of officials, for example, for example, when issuing a certificate or a copy of the birth certificate, a copy of the birth certificate, etc., but the citizens themselves will have the opportunity, if they are not satisfied with the services of public servants, to address the Ombudsman and to address their problem adequately. This bill is extremely good, but I believe that there is an inaccuracies in it when it comes to the Ombudsman's obligation to inform the complainant not only about the initiation of the procedure itself, but also about its outcome. I believe that the applicant of such a bill had the intention to arm the work of the Ombudsman himself, and not to literally make him an institution that would not be bound by any deadline. That is why I believe it is necessary to accept Mr. Mark Krstin's amendment to Article 29. The bill, which makes it clearer to define such a duty as to protect citizens. The proposal contains one provision that is of paramount importance when it comes to the business of foreign legal and natural persons in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we know that they meet daily with all the problems and weaknesses of the over-greeding and slow administrations. This bill is good in that it allows them to contact the Ombudsman under the same circumstances and conditions as domestic legal or physical persons. I mention only one example of the totally incomprehensible and incompetent behaviour of the tax administration experts of a central Belgrade municipality, who were not even informed of what their task was, or whether they were even authorised to issue certificates on the settlement of non-residents' tax obligations without a permanent business unit on Serbia's territory. Due to these everyday problems, faced with foreign natural and legal persons operating in the territory of Serbia, of course coming from countries of relatively regulated legal systems, we as a state are in a rather invisible situation when we want to keep such legal or physical parties in our republic and when we ask them to continue to invest here. By adopting such a bill, I think that this problem will be partially solved and that the future needs to pay particular attention to the complaints that come from this side. All the countries or republics of the former Yugoslavia have accepted the institution of the Ombudsman or the protectors of the citizens and, of course, it is quite normal, at the beginning of the operation of this institution, have faced certain problems, which I think will be the case with us. But that is why we need to adequately prepare ourselves for the functioning of this institution and simply prepare the ground for its best application. I think it is necessary to understand that it is necessary to spend some time in order for this institution to be properly understood, not only by citizens, but also by other institutions within the legal system. It is necessary, through means of public information, to affirm this institution and citizens in time to provide all the necessary information about its operation. It is also necessary to train all personnel, not only those who will work in the institution, but also those who will work in other institutions within the legal system, whose work will be monitored. Finally, I believe that by adopting this law, we as a state show that we have a democratic capacity and, above all, a willingness to base the work of our bodies and public servants on the principles of transparency and accountability.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19004	The People's MP Dusan Proroković has the word and then the National MPs Milan Stevović and Momir Markovic. I'm sorry, Mr. Prophetovich isn't here either. I'm sorry, I just saw Mr. Sarovic wasn't here. Therefore, MP Milan Stevovic has a word and then MP Momir Markovic and Tomislav Penezic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, allow me to present on behalf of the SRS a few basic views and views regarding the newly proposed institution in our positive right, which is the institution of the protection of citizens. We've heard a lot from the MPs of the SRS, and we've heard that we're not going to vote for this law and we think we've made a full argument. I just want to point out that the public is working, that we are rightly contesting certain provisions of this law, and otherwise, as far as the protection of citizens' institutions are concerned, we are absolutely not against it. To fully understand what this is about, we need to start with an analysis of the historical and legal view of this institution or this legal institute. And, for the sake of this, this was introduced in 1809 by the Constitution of Sweden and as the highest instance of the royal authority, which is the royal Ombudsman. The law came into force on 1 March 1810 and the entire 19th century was not established in Europe, in order to be established for the second time in the state of Finland in 1919. If we look at the legal basis of the ombudsman law at that time, it will be quite clear to us on what grounds and why it has been passed, and above all it has been adopted as one control of the concentrated authority in the Kingdom of Sweden. So, if we start from that, we have to go into the analysis that it was the Parliament's trustee and that he served as a certain control and officials, as well as judges. This concept was abandoned during the 20th century and there have been some shifts at an institute called the Ombudsman or Protector of Citizens. Otherwise, some general definition that could be said is that it is a public official appointed by the legislative authority to receive and express complaints from citizens against administrative treatment. What is very important from a political point of view is the fact that the protection of citizens in all legal systems should be one balance between the legislative and executive authorities. As this bill has been set out, I am not sure that this purpose will be fully achieved. In order to know what this is about, we still have to say something about the original concept of this patron of citizens. Three important elements of the protection of citizens through history. First, it is one parliamentary institution, i.e. to be elected by Parliament. Secondly, that it exists and that it works on behalf of Parliament and on behalf of all citizens. The third thing, it's to be established by the constitution. We can't help but say, there's been a lot of discussion here about what's called an ombudsman, and in every name there's something new, there's a new meaning. First of all, it's one general folk attorney, so it's called in some legal systems. In other legal systems, it is a civil defender, somewhere there is a citizen's rights representative, somewhere a citizen's representative, somewhere a civil rights commissioner or mediator, as provided for by French positive law. It is interesting that Spain, for example, is calling this protector a human defender, and that in Ethiopia it is used in one described way and is said to be the one who cares about the tears of citizens. So all of this is concentrated in a legal institute, which we now need to introduce, and therefore we suggest that we be very careful. We have submitted a few amendments and I believe that the right minister has respected certain amendments to the SRS, because this will improve certain solutions, but in the concept we are quite different. I'd just like to mention a few more things, which is that there's a so-called. the federal concept of the Ombudsman, but also that there are state concepts within the Federation. I am not sure that the state union of Serbia-Montenegro will introduce a state-run, federal Ombudsman, and in contrast, we are proposing these republican, or already have province ombudsmans. As far as the citizens' institutions themselves are concerned, it's very important to have a decentralisation, and that's the basis in which we have to agree here. It is okay that there is a Republic, that there is a province, but it is not right that there is no unity with regard to the Ombudsman or the protection of citizens at the local level. I'll just remind you of Article 126. A law on local self-government, which leaves the university possibility for local communities to introduce an Ombudsman or a civil defender. So we put in an unequal position the citizens of our country, our Republic of Serbia, because those who have the funds will introduce this institute, and those who do not have the means may not, or from some other initiatives will not provide an opportunity for citizens to protect one citizen. Such differences should not exist, and I will give concrete examples. Valjevo is required by the decision of the Valjev Assembly, undermining the mandatory, introduction of the institution of protection of citizens. In Subotica, it was done in a completely different way, which is by organising a law enforcement office, at the county level. It may be good, too, but the colourfulness that appears here is absolutely not good and it is not good for our citizens to change their views on this very important institute and the very important link to achieving democracy. As for the legal texts that are proposed here, or norms, I find it unclear whether it is an incoherent body or a collegiate body, since it has one Ombudsman or a civil protection officer and that it has its deputies. It remains unknown what the rights and powers of these deputies are. It is clear that the election procedure, that is to say, is not in place by the deputy ombudsman. I'd just like to mention a few dilemmas that can be imposed in these cases. The first dilemma is why the government and the president of the Republic are not covered by the ombudsman's actions. The second thing is not clear why the courts, in that part of the decision-making and inefficient conduct of the courts, are not under the authority of the protectors of the citizens. The third thing, why the prosecution isn't covered by this, even though we know that there are certain hierarchy, authority and demand that it be done quite effectively. The fourth thing, which is otherwise known in European law, citizens' protectors in certain countries have the right to look into the files of secret services or security services. There's nothing to say about this here. It doesn't matter here. The government is under attack, and I believe there are other life segments where adequate protection should be given to the citizens. When we talk about the Institute of Protectors of Citizens, I must point out that experts of the Council of Europe have made one recommendation to our competent authorities to introduce a central ombudsman, with the possibility of opening local offices. I'm not sure we'll have enough strength and financial opportunities to set up an institution like this in every part of Serbia. For these reasons, I suggest that the amendment of the SRS be reconsidered, and until then I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19006	The word has a folk MP, Momir Markovic, so MP Tomislav Penezic, and eventually MP Branislav Rankic, with the list of registered speakers exhausted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19007	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the afternoon presentation of one of those who defended this law so reminded me of the early 1980s, when one politician seemed to me right out of his neighborhood, explaining his position towards a specific legal project, said - yes, Comrade President, that's my opinion, but I disagree with him. By defending this law, I didn't realize whether he was attacking the law or defending it. The main objection, as well as many legal projects, submitted by the SRS, is the first copying of the law from the West, the paving of something that is not necessarily Serbian mentality, or Serbian spaces, but that's what it needs. You're always saying that we're going to Europe, here's the moment it's not 2027, when they're going to see us. At least when you prescribe an attempt to overwrite to the point, you have one of the professors of law who seems to me to be right in your parliamentary group, so he'll take the other one who was in the parliamentary group, so let them copy from a to no. How are we without this law, I don't understand, when it is so necessary and so much needed for the citizens of Serbia. Basically, this law doesn't have one, and that's a constitutional decree. The second thing this law doesn't have is a matter of sanctions and a third, which this law has and all of your laws that you've passed so far have mostly been based on it, it's an investment, and it's a deep investment, up to the elbows to get your hands into the budget. Because this citizen's protector will have the right to open offices throughout Serbia, because he has the right to open them, and once he opens them he will open them from the ranks of political parties that are in power, regardless of what it says here that he cannot deal with politics, he must not be a political figure. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 1 of this Law, it is said - this law establishes a protector as an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So, legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia. If you had set him up yesterday, he would have had to immediately call Vuk Draskovic, for example, for signing that shameful contract, a treason treaty that opened the doors of Serbia to NATO troops. So he'd have to arrest Davinic right away, although what's happening now is I see as an internal struggle in a coded organization, because it looks like some of them are starting to jump out of a cliché. He can't steal the one that's lower in the party hierarchy anymore. It seems that Davinić went a little bit more into those shops and passed perhaps, in an individual case, Dinkic and then has to go outside. It is difficult for Dinkic to overcome globally, but in individual contracts he has overcome it. They're going to have to attack the entire political group G17 plus, because I have here for genetically modified soybeans, this is for "Knjiz Milos," for those privatization thieves, what for "Erikson" and let's say for the National Savings Bank. The protector would have to ask this second how now that the National Savings Bank has been sold, in an absolutely illegal manner the complete property of the Republic of Serbia has belonged to Greece. It consisted of buildings used by the former SDK, the Payment Service, so Dinkic introduced it to the National Savings Centre at a small gate, as the property of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the Republic of Serbia received action. When the National Savings Bank was sold to Greece, Greece became neither guilty nor obliged, the owner of buildings in Serbia. Wherever you have a payment service building, so you know it's no longer ours, it's Greek. There's one more thing that's associated with me like that, it's just missing a picture, otherwise I can see who you're planning here and who you're planning to protect the citizens, because only Dana's picture is missing, it's all listed here, but maybe some other measures are missing. The protector's headquarters is in Belgrade. The public defender can also educate the office outside of his seat by a decision. Here's a way to hire everything you haven't managed so far in these offices. For the protection of citizens, a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who fulfils the following conditions can be chosen: that a graduate is a lawyer, it can be easily checked, that he has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs which are essential for the performance of tasks in the jurisdiction of the protection of citizens, and that can be verified, the man was a lawyer, to possess high moral and professional qualities. I would very much like to see how you will assess, how you will assess who it is that has high moral and professional qualities and that it has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. The same is predicted for the Deputy Protector of the Rights of Citizens to possess high moral qualities. Where do you get a diploma for high moral quality, so we can determine that? If the Deputy Protector of Citizens, Article 8, fails to enter into office without a reasonable reason within 30 days of the day of the oath, it shall be deemed not to have been elected, as the Assembly finds on the basis of the notice. Ladies and gentlemen, if we choose him, it's an honor to be, and he doesn't show up for a month at work. Otherwise you will adopt this law, no matter what the MPs of the SRS are against, but choose at least someone who will come on the 15th day, don't wait a month. On the day of entry into office of the protection of the citizens, that is to say, the Deputy Protector must cease all public, professional and other functions, i.e. duties or tasks he has performed until then. He can't work two jobs at once, especially if he's a protector, and it takes so long for citizens to protect him from Dinkic, from Labus, from Dulicka. Because how will this civil defender protect farmers who have now sown genetically modified soybeans, which she has imported, because her ministry has given consent to imports of genetically modified soybeans, so now it will sample several tens of thousands of hectares across the Vojvodina, and it will certainly not enter into it to imprison the genetically modified soybean grown by Janosevic from Surcin, because it is already entering other interests. The protection of citizens and the deputy protectors cannot be called to account for their opinions. Who can be called upon for opinion? Only Article 11 – the function of the protection of citizens ceases in the following cases: the end of the term of office, unless it is re-elected. Of course he stops the moment his mandate expires. Death. I'd like to see who else is dead doing the job. Only if you didn't predict that he was performing his duties until he was left for 40 days. With a resignation. If someone resigns, of course they are. The loss of citizenship. Nationality doesn't mean much to you, because you chose as deputy governor a man who was a citizen of the People's Republic of Hungary, so today you became a deputy governor, and tomorrow you got citizenship. You might as well not put this on. He says by performing permanent physical or mental inability to perform a function. Mental incompetence; means, if he goes crazy in office, and I think he'll get to this function sooner. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law really needs to be withdrawn from the procedure. Don't overwrite other people's laws, they don't bend to ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19008	The People's Messenger Tomislav Penezic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Branislav Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19009	Ladies and gentlemen, because of the short time left at my disposal, I'm going to look back at some elements, leaving them with their colleagues to say something. Of course, I'll repeat that we won't vote for this law, because we don't think it's necessary. If we don't need it, and you don't need it, this is Article 3. "The public defender can educate the offices outside of his seat by a decision." You could have said "instruct offices outside your seat" here, which means you intend to employ your people in all municipalities, and when it's multiplied by the number of municipalities, it's a huge number of people. Therefore, that was the ultimate goal. Secondly, I'll pay attention only to the article. Five and six, where moral qualities are spoken of. Doesn't this remind you of the time you were looking for, probably you, I wasn't, I was never a member of any party, looking for a moral-political resemblance. It's all you've "political" left out, but you've already put it in part two. So, as one who wasn't a member, I couldn't have had that similarity anywhere. Who's gonna measure that? Do you see that I was anything else then than this now? I think I'm perfectly normal, a man who could do jobs that were called competitions, but then I didn't have a book that was red. Next, as far as this goes, they can't be party members. You can, if it is said that his membership ends with a degree of duty, he can stop everyone from being on paper, but believe that it will all be your members. I guarantee you, if it were a member of the SRS and if his membership had stopped on some kind of paper, he would have stayed in his soul a radical. This may not be the case with you, therefore, because when you came to power, many of you came out of the interest of the party, so they might give up both party determinations and everything else for the sake of their position. I say, I doubt anyone will give up, especially if it's a Serbian radical. Thank you. I'm leaving time for my colleagues. I had a lot to say, but I'll try to make up for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19010	The People's Messenger Branislav Rankic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is yet another law before us that will hardly be applied, that is, its product will not be what the law provides. At the very beginning, since the minister is not here, I would like to refer the question to the ministry lady - will the civil protectionist, as a state body, actually represent the institution of national legislation? Do you know that, if this body is going to represent the institution of national legislation, I think that in that case, the Serbian Parliament is losing its original work, because I am convinced that the Assembly should exclusively be the institution of national legislation. If you can't confirm this to me, then take an explanation on page 2, an explanation of certain provisions and see what is written in paragraph 1 - that this authority will represent the institution of national legislation. It's really big ingenuity. Someone here mentioned the Law on Peaceful Dispute Resolution. When I spoke in principle about this law, I said that in certain countries, where such a law occurred, there was practically a phenomenon that was only regulated by law. In our case, it was brought months ago, no work dispute was brought to life, it was not peacefully resolved to the mediators and the peace councils that were scheduled there. Why? Because it didn't exist as a phenomenon, and we wanted to produce it by law. We'll have the same problem when it comes to this law. In our tradition, there are certain people, individuals, people's free shooters, who have great influence in their environments and at the level of the Republic, especially in the local environments, who could provide good services, as one member of this law says. Among other things, the provision of good services, and that it is a common phenomenon that ensures that a citizen can exercise some of his rights, which he has the right, but which he cannot, for example, because of the infunctioning of certain authorities of the state administration to achieve. Then it would be perfectly logical to come to the fact that one such phenomenon is described by law. This law will not produce such a phenomenon, no matter how much you think it will. What is illogical to me in certain members is in Article 5, when the conditions that must be met by the person to be chosen as the guardian of the citizens are not yet mentioned there. The conditions are that he is a graduate lawyer, that he has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs which are important for performing the tasks of the protection of citizens, that he has high moral and professional qualities, we have seen that this is hard to assess, that he has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights, and that is suspicious. But it was supposed to be assumed that a judicial verdict was not convicted of criminal acts, because it was not logical for someone who had already been convicted to be able to, and this was to be introduced into the law, to become practically the protector of citizens. Article 9 in the last position provides that someone who would be proposed and elected to protect citizens, if he is a member of a political party would have to resign, and not even write here – a political organisation, but must resign to membership in political organisations. So the law already predicts that it will be a member of several political organisations, which in itself is immoral and disqualifies the potential candidate for the protection of citizens. After all, the one who would resign as political organisation or political organisations would certainly do so declared without essentially changing anything. It is also incomprehensible that Article 12 did not provide for the possibility of a resolution on a personal request. In fact, here you have stated only three positions decidently when someone can relieve the duties of the guardians of the citizens and here you have had to state that he can be resolved on a personal request, regardless of what is intended for the previous member that he can resign to that post, someone will want to be resolved, not resigned. You should have seen that in this law, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19012	Here you go, Mr. Mircic. It's the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19013	I really don't have any inspiration anymore, and here's the assistant minister running away. What a way this is, Mr. President. (Assistant and minister returning to the O.R. ) Here is another one of the proposals that essentially aims to satisfy the form. The content of this proposal has already been seen in the past. The Protector of the Citizens is at the level of the province of the so-called the omnibus by law specified. We've seen a period of about a few years where, by doing that function, a man went to the District Assembly and realized that it was only one form, that there was absolutely nothing behind it, that citizens had no use, except for extra costs. What would possibly be the task of this public defender is to immediately protect the citizens of Backa Palanka from the minister. But how to protect them from the minister and his associates when there's no authority. The protection of citizens cannot affect the government, parliament, cannot affect the judiciary. Only moral-political can act on civil servants. How moral-politically it works, on this case I cited when it comes to the District Assembly and the province's patron of citizens, you saw. It is politically acting by selectively reviewing certain cases of political action or, more specifically, the political performances of certain political scene actors in Vojvodina, so we are witnessing that, let's say, the protagonist of the people of Vojvodina has no objections or finds it appropriate to react when the former president of the Vojvodina Assembly tramples the table on which RTS writes, and is in the study in Novi Sad. Come on, you step on it, but even more juicy than the gauze curses the Serbian mother and Serbia. And then the protégé of the people of Vojvodina, and the elections have shown that most of the mood is that Vojvodina is never detached from Serbia for ever, he does not find it appropriate to react. But when someone in the SRS says that one of the lists coming out of the Vojvodina's Ustasha editorial policy, it is the same protector of citizens that says it is in his report and says it is a spread of hatred. I can imagine what this republic will be like then. Especially in the case of Bucky Palanca. Temporary measures have been introduced by one of the main remarks being – the selection of committees and verification of the mandate has been carried out by the fact that I do not vote on it. The law says – the verification of the mandate is based on the election commission's report and the verification committee's confirmation after an insight into the election material, i.e. the election commission's documents. But what's there? There is the same political will or reflection of political will. And now, the majority in Backo Palanca, regardless of what was said in the previous local elections as stated, and as their will reflects the number of councilors, is now a prisoner of the minority. Why? Because it is the will of newly established political relations in certain political parties. Obviously, the unimportant political will is how important it is for the people, in this case the citizens of Palanca, to look forward to what kind of internal elections will be. If a local powermaker is elected to a high party function, such as the chairman of the executive board, then citizens at that level of government will have uncertainty because he will have his authority over the night to influence the counterfeiting of the will of citizens. There's still a number of factors. The minister is more familiar with this, but we are extremely interested in one thing from the Serbian Radicals. This is how in a border municipality, where and how important it is that there is a normal atmosphere in which local self-government works, where and how desirable it is because of the very position of the municipality that political tolerance exists, where it is not recommended to raise political tensions, because still, if you did not know gentlemen, only through the Danube to the municipality continue to rely on municipalities in Croatia where, regardless of past events and events, the majority Serb population is. On the other hand, we have an eclectic example in the field of Vojvodina, where in Vienna municipality there is violence, political and every other, where the president of the municipality, called Pal Shandor and represents one political party that reflects the will of most voters belonging to the Hungarian national minority, is not allowed to enter as speaker of the assembly to schedule the session. Why? Because it's not about will or mood. It's about willpower. It's a store. How tomorrow will the protector of the people, whom you propose and whom you give authority, rebuke the minister. How will tomorrow the protector of the people rebuke anyone from the ruling establishment, and in particular give me an answer from the gentlemen, if you are able, how will the protector of the people protect the people from the ever greater and greater robbery and kidnapping of the property of the citizens of Serbia? You're equal here when it comes to the ruling coalition. It's not that you're different, it's only in shades, whether it's tens of millions or more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-05-0.u19014	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word? No, I don't. ) Does anyone else want a word that did not exercise their right under Article 93? Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. I thank you all for your responsibilities. Tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., as promised, continue the session with details of the draft law on state administration. Thank you.
