ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17906	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have decided to withdraw the draft conclusion on the selection of an external auditor for the reason that the Committee on Finance of the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Parliament would be left to propose to the auditor themselves. In other words, you know that according to the Law a tender was called, audit houses appeared, houses were stabbed in the order in which it was established. The government has reached a proper conclusion and has proposed that the Assembly adopt it. However, we think that it is better for the Committee on Finance to get an insight into all those who have applied for this tender and then the Finance Committee, after considering the candidates that have arrived, to propose to the Assembly - to choose one or to place more of them, and to vote in the Assembly. In any case, we felt it was premature to decide today, regardless of what was necessary for the final accounts of the 2002, 2003 and 2004 budgets to go to the Assembly. I want to inform you of another fact - the Ministry of Finance, as you know, owns the final accounts for 2002 and 2003. In the meantime, we have also completed the final account for 2004, for which the Ministry was responsible, whose head I am. If you, Members of Parliament, allow us, we would send all three reports, undivided, to the Assembly, and then you would decide on the selection of auditors, to review such reports that we send and then put them on the agenda when conditions are obtained. Because, indeed, the finance ministry has done its job. We have all three reports, which include: the report on the final budget account, the list of total state assets, for the first time included in the 2004 Budget Report. Only the procedure is such that it cannot be put on the agenda before an external independent audit is carried out. Since we are delaying today, we are withdrawing this conclusion from the procedure, given that the Assembly should elect an auditor, please allow the Government to send unscheduled reports to the Assembly, and then you decide when to choose an auditor, when to put it on the agenda. Indeed, it is the finance minister's obligation not to go with the 2006 draft budget before sending reports on the implementation of the 2002, 2003 and 2004 budget. We have them, but here, for these procedural reasons, we now draw conclusions and ask the Assembly to put some, perhaps by work, the government's authority to send unsolicited reports, and then, after departure, put them on the agenda of the Assembly. I don't know if that's legally possible, but that's my suggestion. At the same time, I want to apologize for not being able to attend at the beginning of this session today. We've looked at all the amendments, here are the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17907	Thank you. The word is from MP Ivica Dacic, president of the SPS parliamentary group. At the same time, this is another proof that we continue to work exclusively under the law and within that one notice: the Legislative Committee's report on these amendments, everyone is possible, except two, is before me, and for technical reasons will be divided during the debate on details, no later than ten minutes. Here you go, Mr. Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17908	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to say that what Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, the finance minister, just now said was also our request yesterday. We spoke to Minister Dinkic. We asked, as you know, the SPS to adopt the final budget accounts for 2002 and 2003. But the commission that did this job, as the highest bidder, chose the Deloitte firm. The Deloit firm, as you know, is a company once worked by Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic. It is absolutely illogical that the company, where Aleksandar Vlahovic used to work, audit the government's work at the time of Alexander Vlahovic's presence. It is such a great conflict of interest and the crackdown of these provisions that it was absolutely unacceptable for the SPS. Absolutely, I think, what he has now proposed and what Minister Dinkic agreed with, is acceptable to us. It is extremely incorrect to give friends Aleksandr Vlahovic to control his work and the work of other ministers, to assess that everything was great, that everything was legal and that we would pay them well for it. That's why I think our request yesterday was fully justified, no matter how little these deadlines may be extended. I think it is much better that the Finance Committee, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Serbia, participate in this work. That was our reason why we asked for this point to be removed from the agenda, or delayed, so that we would not enter into such irony that someone would evaluate themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17909	Thank you. The MP Gordana Pop - Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a natural MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17910	I must begin by pointing out that this is just the right insolence that at the beginning of the debate on the law on amendments and amendments to the Bill on the Budgetary System, the minister has something to do with it and won't sit here. As far as his ministry is concerned, you have opportunities, you saw, yesterday we got some amendments, the government is changing its draft amending law and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. Experts dropped one column. The first amendment concerns Article 1. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, and here the Ministry of Finance has come to the sense that the 3rd member's position has changed. It reads: "This law establishes the Public Payments Authority, as the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, (and now deletes the word "economy", which I could understand) and regulates its jurisdiction and organisation. "But it does not satisfy the needs of Mladjan Dinkic, his party. The position now has to be read: "This law establishes the Treasury Administration, as the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance, regulates its jurisdiction and organisation and determines the obligation to set up a vault of local authorities." This later in the provisions is likely to include 20 members of the bill to be specified, and concerns the formation of a new vault administration, which covers the vault and covers the existing Public Payments Authority. What is the point, what is the goal, what does this group that is in power to achieve with this change want? To fully understand what this operation is, we would have to get from the minister today – who there is none, and he knows I would ask him these questions, so he ran away – answers a few questions. The first question is how many existing vaults have sub-accounts? Whose sub-accounts are they, how are they run, and what is the state of the funds on those sub-accounts? We don't have that answer. We've only got a pitch of six, seven, eight. That's right to some auctions. What does he want to achieve with this unification? He wants to achieve the creation of a state, and why not tell the banks, which Mladjan Dinkic would control. The bank would run all the accounts in the state, have insight into everything that's been done on the financial market. Some will find that a little and strange, but I have to draw attention to one piece of information that public spending in the Republic of Serbia exceeds 60%, namely 60% of participation in the total gross social product. If you watch how many times these funds turn, it's the strongest bank. She wants to be controlled by Mladjan Dinkic. It will be a kind of merger between the former SDK and one bank. Of course, the question arises, and why is local self-government silent about this? I have to remind you that by any chance this was done a few years ago, not only would there be demonstrations in Serbia, but it would be bombings, just for the sake of the bill. Now local self-government is silent, because G17 plus is quite infiltrated in local authorities and it is a kind of co-operation, and this solution allows Davinić when he goes to the stands to say - the Republic will invest 10 million in the municipality of Vlasotince or some village, or 200,000 to sort out some way or something past and through local authorities. It is part of a serious concentration of financial resources that will not be controlled, and knowing those who are working now and who are managing the Ministry of Finance can infallibly say that there will be both secret accounts and sub-accounts and funds that will not be shown, because that would not happen, usually a division in finance is made for those who have commanding functions and for those who make payments. Here these two functions are united, closed, and apparently the G17 plus simply regrets that it does not have its own business bank, so let's make the strongest business bank in Serbia, and that business bank will be practically the budgetary spending of the Republic of Serbia. It must be known that the Republic of Serbia's budget has huge resources. Compared to 2000, we today have six to seven times the load. It must be known that the minister has passed a special regulation that regulates overcoming the inconsistency of the inflow and draining funds from the budget, he has authorized himself. It is theoretically possible to transfer 100,000 dinars from the budget to one user, and it has given itself the authority to withdraw 60% from 30 days immediately, and to withdraw 60% of these funds and thus not only destroy the economy, in addition to those known economic measures, which are done resiliently and sectorally and in the framework of other ministries, here and directly through the Ministry of Finance. I'll take just one example. The Road Directorate is in charge of the contractors. It's all about bonds contracts. The Directorate can't meet its obligation. As Mladjan Dinkic told us, a deal was reached between the Directorate, the Ministry of Capital Investment and the contractors. They will not seek interest, but only to settle their main claim, and thus our economy is forced, at least that part of the economy is forced to do business with losses. What about the country? We still don't know at what rate the state collects its claims. Off the record, it's about 20%, and that's the real inflation. To cover it up, then it takes this to unite in the Treasury Administration. We do not have the authority to do these things, team before this amendment to Article 3. The law on the budgetary system in that article reads: "The Minister responsible for Finance and Economy Affairs adopts acts to implement this law, in accordance with the law." He swears by law, commits to act in accordance with the law, and in fact we know who Mladjan Dinkic is and what the composition of this Ministry of Finance is. He'll do his own will. Now he has all the instruments of power and I don't know who the Prime Minister is here. I'm not surprised at the G17 plus they're pushing this, but I'm surprised at the DSS, how you accept this. Tax instruments in the hands of Mladjan Dinkic, customs instruments in the hands of Mladjan Dinkic, complete energy and all public enterprises are in the hands of Mladjan Dinkic. If not directly, then by the register. Now there's the whole budget and all the funds are with Mladjan Dinkic. You left the National Bank of Serbia a long time ago and who's running politics in this country? During that DOS, the main political structure was the GSS. During this government, the main structure of G17 plus. Who's controlling this? Who's to say this is intended? (Loud voice: G17. G17 can claim? Well, the G17 can do anything, but for a very short time. There must be a distraction here too, and that will be continued by the MPs of the SRS when these members come to the agenda to say that you have annulled the law you passed a few days ago. You were then planning to form a public debt administration. Why do you need public debt management when these jobs are going to work and the vault management? That's how you gave jurisdiction in the subsequent provisions of the bill. Finally, to say that the idea of a vault existed long ago in our constitutional system, even at the time when the SDK existed, was the idea of forming a vault on a federal level, so there were different thinking and interpretations. Whether such a good SDK, which had already had a state at 12:00 in the evening, had been a top institution, which Mladjan Dinkic, among other things, embarrassed by saying it was a party institution, that it was in control, and that many countries today do not have a total state of monetary mass and total traffic during the day, although they have developed banking systems. And then there was this idea, so it's said, we have SDK, there's no need to form the vault. There was a change in 1992 and 1993, but then there was a change, and that's why the vault was made. If it hadn't been for that violent change in this territory, it would never have formed there. The state should have a similar bank, but it can't be everything in that bank, and decision-making and control and payment, all of it, but it's impossible. In this way, a completely new, dangerous power centre is being created, but you can see for yourself, G17 plus closed the finances in Serbia. Banks are under control, customs, taxes, public enterprises, budget. If Mladjan Dinkic needs a private bank to do something, let him go to the National Savings Bank, move there. Why is he making another G17 plus bank out of this? Think of you who support the government, because by voting for this law, what you are actually forming and keeping track of, don't say in the next election, we didn't know what Mladjan Dinkic or G17 plus was doing, because for a year and a half we're warning you what they're doing. So don't use that excuse, because then we'll take the stenograms and we'll tell you from point to point of the agenda, from law to law. When we've turned your attention, so I mean something dangerous, you'll always see it, and in the following amendments, Mladjan Dinkic has made a fictional surplus, and he doesn't even know what a deficit or surplus is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17911	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is from Ambassador Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17912	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there was a set of economic laws at the last session. The proposer was the government, the author of the proposed minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, who is the author of these laws. All those laws that were under discussion during the last session, which ended last Friday in voting day, and all the laws concerning regulation and budgets, and money flows, and the banking system and the insurance system, and recently and lising, are being seen as a desire to control everything, to manage everything, to determine the rules of the game of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Even the budget, for which he is directly responsible to the government of the Republic of Serbia, is still as if it is not enough for him, but we now have amendments and additions to the Law on the budgetary system, where even in the smallest technical details to involve Mladjan Dinkic, he will literally wonder about everything and everything to decide. Simply, the legal proposals proposed by this government are the author of Mladjan Dinkic and G17 plus and give him so much authority that this man simply becomes stronger than the law itself. In one member, he sets himself a limit, and in the next article, he cancels that restriction. It's stronger than the law and above all else. It also shows that in this proposal, amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, in Article 2, are defined provisions, names, actions that take place during the implementation of budget planning and control. That part, to be clear, when it comes to the very budget of the Republic of Serbia, public enterprises where the founder or majority owner of the Republic of Serbia is, I understand one wish for the minister to control these public enterprises, individual ministries, but he even took his right to control the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Remember what he was doing up until a few months ago with the funds he proposed, and the Assembly accepted and ordered itself to spend so much during a fiscal year. Now this goes a little further, the budgets of local self-government, which were determined by the Budgetary System Act, means the budget-making process, the way, the more technical part of the budget spending of local self-government authorities and public enterprises where local self-government owners are, now the minister gives himself the right to also have those funds, which are available to local self-government, determine when and how they will be spent. There is even going on, and in point 7) of Article 2, point 1 says, indirect beneficiaries of the budget are judicial authorities, local communities, public enterprises, directorates and funds established by local authorities financed from public revenues whose purpose is set out in a special law. So, local communities can be indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, but local self-government can be an indirect beneficiary of budgets, because we have transfer funds that we transfer to local self-governments from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I haven't read anywhere yet that the local community needs to come up with a plan, a financial plan for business for a year. It is usually done by local self-government on behalf of the local community, by a decision on the budget and by local self-government. Now it's an obligation to the local community. I'd like to see these local communities that have five, six or seven council members in a village with 150 or 200 voters. Let's see how these people, most often having primary school, rarely one of them high school, are going to come up with a plan, a financial plan to spend budgets within their local community. Furthermore, when it comes to local self-government in Article 1. The proposal, the amendment was submitted here by Gordana Pop-Lazic, and I'm just going to do a little digression, it says: "This law establishes the Treasury Administration, as the managing authority of the Ministry of Finance, regulates its jurisdiction and organisation and determines the obligation to set up a vault of local authorities. "So, the Treasury Administration, as Mladjan Dinkic suggests, will establish local authorities' vaults, control budget spending, determine the purpose, primarily how these funds should be spent, etc. Now I ask the question, if that's the case and when all the provisions of this law are later reviewed, what do we need local self-government, what do we need municipalities, why do we need them to make some kind of budget, some decision on the budget when the payments, the spending of that budget, the veto on that budget that local self-government makes to have a vault administration, or a minister who controls that administration for the public payment vault? The question arises what if a local self-government plans to implement some serious investment and takes a longer period of time – four, five or six months – to provide certain budgets for that purpose. Through this vault administration, you can see the ministry's desire and the minister can use these funds without any explanation to the local self-government why her money that she saves for the plumbing, for the sewerage, for the dump, will be spent. He says, "We'll pay you back in a matter of time." He's very specific about the law, but unless there's still enough revenue in the budget, he doesn't have to pay you back. Furthermore, the question arises as to why these details go to local self-government, even local communities, where these vaults will be and who should manage the work of the vault. The question arises in which banks will be deposited with these vaults, who will have the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budgets of all local self-government, the financial resources of all public enterprises, whether established by the Republic of Serbia or local self-government. What billion is that, what hundreds of billions? If our budget is 432 billion, there are about so many revenues from various public enterprises, local self-government, etc. Who's going to have 900 billion dinars over a fiscal year? Who's gonna use those funds? Are we going to have privileged banks again, because the budget system as it works, in this size as it exists, means that someone will have at least three or four billion dinars available every day through the vault, because the Treasury Administration will determine where the banks will be deposited with these funds. Let's guess which banks they are. That it might not be the National Savings Bank, the Commercial Bank and Delta Bank? Are these same banks going to pay us back that money through loans that are more expensive, because I think now it's on the annual level of deposited funds from 6% to 7%, and you can't get a short-term loan below 17% or 18%, and you're already talking about short-term loans here. Are we going to owe the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia even more citizens of the Republic of Serbia to profit someone? These seem to be the real reasons for the passing of one of these laws. It seems to me that the click surrounding Mladjan Dinkic is looking for new, fresh capital, that some more jobs are done, they're putting some more in their pocket, but on 900 billion dinars, figure out what 6% of the difference between deposited funds and short-term loans is. I think it's about 18 billion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17913	Anyone else want a word? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17914	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as one MP said, but he's even the one who supports this and this kind of government, so crowded in the O.R. that he can't breathe. Indeed, a little while longer on this side, where the ruling structure should sit, there will be more of these ladies from the ministry, because there is no Dinkic, otherwise there are no MPs in the hall. It is a really serious legal text, in fact unseriously written, but a matter that should attract the attention of many people's representatives, because, in particular, Article 2 of which is spoken by counterpart Arsic, and he asks that he deletes himself, he speaks of problems that local self-government units may have. And many colleagues are not only MPs, some are municipal presidents, executive or council members and should deal with this issue, because it is doubtless that such a dictated and monopoly policy, conducted by the finance minister as an executive body when it comes to public finances and now under the Budgetary System Act with much greater powers, is something that can and can affect the unit of local self-government. I will explain this in the case of the Kragujevac City Assembly and the lack of understanding of Mladjan Dinkic when it comes to not only the problems of the town of Kragujevac, as the local authorities, but also the Kragujevac economy. Because of his behaviour and because of the fact that the absolute total government is not interested in solving the accumulated problems in the economy, and above all strategically important problems such as the "Stat - Purpose Products", the city assembly in Kragujevac was forced yesterday to carry out an intervention that is possible under the current Budgetary System Act only through the decision of the Council of the City. The SRS, though the strongest opposition to Veroljub Stevanovic and the Kragujevac city government, also contributed yesterday because the factory "Stava - Purpose Products" is not in a stalemate position, but is absolutely blocked because of the deception and lies of Mladjan Dinkic. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it took our oldest weapons factory 15 days ago to grant a 75 million-dollar loan, as promised. However, as I told the mayor and the gunmen at the time, Mladjan Dinkic is not to be trusted, but rather a man who does not keep his promises, he is indeed producing more and more with his work and laws affecting the crisis. He also did not want to meet, or respect, the deadline, and we, the only thing that was possible was because the mayor only had powers up to 10%, so yesterday we approved, or extended and extended the deadline for another month for the funds that were sent. (President: Time.) I'm done. What's that for, then? That Dinkic is constantly asked, under this Law on the Budgetary System of Local Self-Government Units and under this Article 2, it is practically one department to be managed by the finance minister. Then why are we at the level of local self-government dealing with the adoption of municipal budgets? Then why are there local self-government units? This is the same case with municipalities in the city of Belgrade, where the first step in centralisation of finance by Mayor Bogdanovic towards Belgrade municipalities is, and as you go up, you come to the republican authorities, to the vault, to Dinkic. To every president of the municipality, every unit of local self-government, this is the case of Bogdanovic's relationship to the municipality of Zemun, where radicals are in power, according to the Municipality of Grock, blockades all over the country. This Article 2 thus defined in the Law on the Budgetary Site and this experience, which Kragujevac has, is very negative when it comes to Dinkic's relationship with these problems, is sufficient reason for you to accept the amendment of your colleague Arsic and to delete Article 2 in the Law on the Budgetary System, i.e. amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17915	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 2nd Amendment in the same text were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade and together by the MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17916	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Vice President, I almost said Mr. Prime Minister and the Honorable Representatives of the Government, but today, as well as the first day of the debate on the budget, there is not a single minister from the government, there is no vice president, there is no Prime Minister. It is obvious that the budget is seen as a technical issue that the parliamentary majority will deal with without any problems. Obviously, one of the most serious substances that the Assembly needs to deal with in the course of one year's work, therefore, the budget and budget rebalancing, is not causing the government's attention, as I am sorry to say, is missing the opportunity to, during the debate on the budget, among other things, make a summary of what has been done so far, but it is another proof that we have a rather irresponsible government, which not only is irresponsible to its own citizens, but is also irresponsible to the parliament that it is setting. The amendment to Article 3, on behalf of the DS, was submitted by the head of the parliamentary group, Mr Dusan Petrovic and Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, MP of the DS. The amendment says Article 3 needs to be deleted. I'll read what Article 3 of the Law looks like, so you'll see why erasure is necessary. "If the implementation of funds transferred from the Republic's budget to other levels of government threatens the implementation of the Constitution and the special laws of established obligations of the Republic, the minister may temporarily reduce or suspend funds transferred to other levels of government and immediately inform the government. "Two controversial things are in this article. First, a very broad, undefined rank, what does this mean to "hazard the implementation of the Constitution and the special laws of the established obligations of the Republic"? Believe me, and you know for a fact, there are a whole series of laws and a whole series of ways to interpret this provision and that it means, in practice, stopping budgeting against local self-government. We suspect, for a reason, that this member, when it comes into force, will be politically abused, because we know very well how the allocation of funds from the 2005 budget was made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or by the Ministry of Finance, or by the parliamentary majority, where it is absurd that some local self-government received significantly more funds than the criteria defined by the Budget System Act. An explanation is easy to find if you see who is in power in these local self - administrations. Therefore, it is not good for the government to have one instrument that will ultimately allow it to be a means to implement the appropriate policy or promote political parties, depending on which political parties the minister comes from, or which political coalition makes the government. On the other hand, what's even more controversial is that this member of the power law is given to a minister, not to a government. So it is not about suspending the execution of funds that will be based on the government's decision, but will be based on the finance minister's decision. I find that very dangerous. If we are all together, when I say all together, I mean the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the other state institutions, part of one EU accession process, and if one of the key steps that must be taken in the EU accession process is to fight corruption, then I keep in mind that it is pointless to bring new and new legal projects that will have discretionary places to decide one man, even if he was also the finance minister or any other minister. It is not good to allow a member of the law discreetly to have one member of the government, that, minority, per day, interpret the provisions of a whole series of laws or constitutions, to fulfil the defined obligations of the Republic, where this interpretation can be very broad, because there are two levels of abuse. I am not saying that the finance minister sitting in the government today will reach for this instrument to commit abuse, but once again, it is not good that there is a place in the law where one man, one individual, is now allowed to stop the huge funds distributed from the Republic of Serbia's budget to local administration. The first level of abuse is political. That's what I was talking about. That means, if I don't like local self-government, if the coalition doesn't work properly, and it happens to have my political party sitting in it, I have a stick in which I can train that political coalition in local self-government and it can be used tomorrow. I ask you MPs, especially the MPs of the majority, to think carefully about this member of the law, because he is not good, regardless of whether we are in position or in opposition. It is not good for any government to have discretionary decision-making sites, especially when it comes to budget allocations. The second level of abuse is where the political coalition in Belgrade authorities, or at Serbia level, has no authority in individual local self-governments. We could've seen that by now. After all, when we adopted a budget allocation programme early this year, when magically, some cities, past the criteria defined by the law, were given more money than cities where the opposition to the Republic government was in power. Therefore, if we have these two levels of potential abuses, as the source found in this Article of the Third Law, that's not good. I'm not even talking about other levels. This is about the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, not about the personal finances of a man, nor about the personal finances of a political group. Believe me, all political parties must be interested in passing a law that will not contain discretionary positions, because today is one power, tomorrow there will be another power, in five or six years there will be some third power. We'll be on the political scene as an opposition or position, which is, believe me, if you're serious players on a political scene, if you're seriously involved, regardless of the aspect of responsibility. It is not good that one law comes again on the agenda the next day when the political coalition in power is changed. The other thing I wanted to take advantage of, since I wasn't this morning when my esteemed colleague Mr. Ivica Dacic mentioned me in the context of some kind of review, I must once again say, the public works, that with Deloitte and Touche I absolutely have nothing to do with 24 January 2001. On January 24, 2001, I withdrew all my ownership roles in the company "Deloitte & Touche". Otherwise, in order for the public to understand, more than 150 partners are owners of "Deloitte & Touche" in Central Europe, so that my property was at some 0.5% of the sharer's company. This was done not because some domestic law prevented me from working for another firm while I was a minister, as was practice during the 1990s when the Socialists were in power, so when key directors in the state were headed by the government, at certain ministerial posts. But it was done because of my personal responsibility and it was done because of the rules that exist in a large multinational company such as "Deloitte & Touche", because it is incompatible for someone to be at the same time in public service and to work at the same time for a large multinational company. On the other hand, the story of what Deloitte and Touche did during privatisation is very often misused. I ask the Privatisation Committee and the President of the Privatisation Committee, Mr Novakovic, who sits here to ask the Privatisation Agency for a complete report and the propo fee that individual financial advisers received during the period 2001 to 2004, so you will see if it is in the first 10 financial advisers who participated in this, and certainly in quality and how it is not in the first 10, but in the first five in the country of Serbia. Please, so as not to manipulate this story and this data anymore, that the Privatisation Committee prepares the report and publicly present here at the session of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17917	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and a National MP, Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17918	Dear fellow Members of the People, from colleagues who have previously spoken about this article of the law and about this amendment with the right to make serious objections to possible abuses related to the implementation of this member of the law, because it is a very significant really discreet right to give one man a right to assess whether or not the functioning of local self-government is compromised and whether it can prevent the functioning of local self-government and have consequences for the lives of people and give him the opportunity to prevent financial channels from functioning of local self-government. I think fellow MPs, both of them, have rightly drawn attention to this member of the law, although I do not think that the formulation of the amendment is appropriate. Another mechanism was to be found or suggested a solution that would be functional. This is because, thank God, in 15 years of multi-party Serbia, we have had many opportunities to see how local self-government works and how the republican government refers to local self-government. Believe me, I really think that colleague Vlahovic, he may speak honestly when he points to the possibility of abuse. When it comes to his party, that assessment does not stand. Look at the city of Belgrade, see how the city government treats local self-government and then you'll see how empty these are. Empty words are because one city finance secretary takes the right to interpret the statutes of the city of Belgrade, the rule of law on the work of a municipality, the Law on Local Self-Government. Take an example of Surchin. There, in a legal way, was called one session of the congregation of the congregation. The president of the SO was sick, the deputy was legally involved, and using the Rules of Procedure, he canceled that session of the SO. A group of councilors dissatisfied with such a way of cancelling the session and generally relations in municipalities, to say, in the field held a session and declared themselves a congregation majority, a colleague said in a bar, however, outside the SO building, and declared himself a congregation majority and now seeks to manage local self-government. First of all, in the local self-government in Serbia, and God has a lot of municipalities, the relationship between the majority and the minority is changing rapidly, and that is something that is the specificity of local self-government. Never at the level of a local self-government should make a question of who the majority is at one point and who the minority is. It is interesting that the SO session is being held here legally, cancelled legally, and not by the group of committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure has been launched an initiative to hold a new session. No, they just met in the field, in the pub, declared themselves a congregational majority, and the media gave it a warm support and promoted them as a congregational majority, and then we have a situation that is related to this member of the law. Then one city secretary takes it as a right and says to me, we won't approve in the city of transfer funds, and watch out for May, we're talking about July, he won't grant a transfer of funds to May, because we've estimated that there's an illegal majority working there. Who is this man who has the right to the Belgrade city level to deny a city municipality the possibility of local self-government working. Who is it? He is, of course, a representative of the DS and in this case is of classical political interest and abuse of the powers he has, and his powers are not. It's simple, so they can show who's boss in town. And if that majority of the alleged had scheduled a session of SO in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, maybe we wouldn't be talking about this today. A new assembly majority would choose one among themselves as president of SO and SO would continue to work. No, they don't want to use the rules of procedure, they don't want to use the statutes of the city of Belgrade, they don't want to apply the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. They declared themselves a congregational majority and think it could work. The point of this whole story is to abuse funds for political purposes. This is an eclectic example of abuse by a member of the DS to the local self-government of a city municipality, which is of Surcin, it is a new city municipality. There have been examples like this when it comes to SO Stars. Once again, when she lost most of her life, she voluntarily stopped transferring money for the purpose of functioning local self-government. That's why I'm saying, perhaps Mr. Vlahovic really means it when he says it, but his party doesn't. On the contrary, she does the opposite. In addition, what kind of abuse is involved, perhaps best confirmed by what happened in local self - administration from 2001 to 2003, when in less than three years, it is precisely using these provisions that are general character and can be interpreted in a different way, threatened by the functioning of local self - government. At that time, the government, or two DOS governments, then introduced 35 forced SO administrations in Serbia in three years and abused citizens' rights to choose and be elected in the most harsh way possible. Why? Because crisis headquarters then raided municipalities, declared themselves a congregation majority, they had their own resolute minister who signed those decisions as fit and then local self-government pushed aside. The rights of citizens, who cares about it, and simply in a completely non-democratic way, changed the essence, the right for citizens to choose and be elected or to operate by local self-government. So, please, and it's a very important member of the law, I don't think it's good to say it just like this -- it's deleted. It would be far better to find another mechanism and see how this right minister, if you want, can limit or find a mechanism, because we mention the minister, and I'm talking about the city secretary. So, what minister, this is about the city's finance secretary who took the right not to transfer money to a city municipality in May. Then you can think about the abuses. When it comes to this second issue, the Committee on Finance of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as Mr Dinkic said, will receive all the necessary documentation, and then we will see what has been offered and how things are about the 2002, 2003 and 2004 budget. I think it's a good proposal for the National Assembly to decide who will conduct the final accounts audits for 2002, 2003 and 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17919	Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Knezevic has the word, and the People's Messenger Nenad Bogdanovic. You want a replica, Mr. Bogdanovic? Yeah. So, then the replica, MP Nenad Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17920	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I thought it would be an incident, so someone thought they were telling the truth, which, of course, often happens here in the Assembly, so I didn't find it necessary to react. But it turns into one serial story, and this time, which is very interesting, the Socialists talk about it. Let's take the Surcin municipality, as far as I know, the president of the municipality was from the SRS recently. (Zarko Obradovic, from the post: What does it matter who the president is? Can you protect me from these intruders?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17921	You'll have to protect yourself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17922	I'd like to ask the chairman to allow me to speak. I can wait. It's no problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17923	I'm warning everyone not to throw the speaker away. That's what I can do, you guys go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17924	So something happened in the Surcin municipality that's going on in Belgrade, what do we do? So whenever it happened that the SRS and the SPS took over, there was no problem. They previously handed over the keys, moved out of the municipality, let those who came to power. What do we have now? When it happens that the SRS and the SPS in Belgrade lose power, then they have technology that is very interesting. First, they don't let people take over. Then, they appear as citizens and ask me, as mayor of Belgrade, to pay them money to function, for something they have no right to do. Please, I asked you, with the City Assembly, the gentlemen of the SRS and the SPS, stop suing; that's all you do. Simply, when you lose power, surrender power; when you get power, take power and there's no problem. I'd like to remind you, Zemun municipality, the president of the municipality is from the SRS. That municipality works without a problem. She's never had a higher surplus in her budget in the last ten years. The city regularly, at every request of the municipality of Zemun, gives consent, without any problem, and will continue to give, because it is our principle for all municipalities. The Sopot municipality, too, has no one in town to rule, no problem at all, if you noticed, a few days ago we allocated 20 million special money for street construction. The Municipality of Grock, at this point, has power and there's no problem. We're operating normally with the Grock Community. But where people are not in power, and where they are not in power, the Stars and Surchin. We had congregations that had changed the previous government. Don't be mad at me. What does that have to do with me? Why are you using this pay phone to tell the truth, to tell people what's not true? So, the moment the seals are handed over, when they come out of the municipality, when the authority is left to those chosen by the assembly, they will completely normally continue to function. (President: Time, Mr. Bogdanovic. ) Please, I'm using this pay phone so you don't do any damage to the citizens of the Surchin municipality. What you're doing, you're doing damage. Give up power because you've lost. It's no big deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17925	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17926	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm using the Rules of Procedure and misreading. You heard Mr. Bogdanovic. He answered the line for my presentation. His first line was -- the president of the municipal assembly is a radical; there are socialists. This just confirms a politically motivated attitude towards the local self-government. Mr. Bogdanovic, there is no word here who is most minority. This is about abuse of the local self-government of the city of Belgrade towards a city municipality. It doesn't matter who most people are. But there is a way to determine the majority and minorities, which is called the Law on Local Self-Government, the Statute of the City of Belgrade, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Municipality. The meeting of the Assembly of the Municipality of Surcin was scheduled and cancelled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. A group of people met at a bar and declared themselves a majority and received fantastic media support from alleged democratic media. Then there's a secretary of the city and he says, "We're not giving money." When you mention provisions, honesty, interpretation, did this group of councilors ask for a new session? Of course not. Until the congregation determines who the majority is, who the minority is, no one can pronounce himself a majority or a minority. He can't, Mr. Bogdanovic, that should be clear to you. You are the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, and I guess you should be clear that you can't go on the street, in the pub someone declares the majority of the assembly. In the municipality hall, the vote will determine who the majority is, who the minority is. But that session should be scheduled in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Municipality. In this case, it's not a word, but they met at the bar, they declared themselves a majority, and you said, "Citizen faces, let me pay them money." You're just showing how you abuse the rights that the law gives you. Who are you to determine whether the local self-government of the Surchin City Assembly works the right way? Who are you? You're the mayor of Belgrade. How can you determine whether a local government is elected legally there or not? I guess there's the Department of State and Local Self-Government. Who are you to decide whether there is a majority or a minority? You see how deep you've entered these political waters. Otherwise, when you mention Grock, you should know that there were some problems, so the president of the Assembly postponed the session for a month; in the meantime, a group of committee members asked, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to hold a new session and the new session identified which majority of parliaments. We don't have a case like that here. We have a group of people who have chosen among themselves a village, the media has declared them, and you obviously, for the congregation majority, and now you take the right not to pay the Assembly of Surč's municipality funds for May; be careful - for May. You simply abuse the rights you have and do not pay money to the Surcin Municipality. Please, let the session be held in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, let the majority of the assembly, my God, be established in Serbia, by changing local authority in one of the municipalities in Serbia. It's all that needs to be done in the law and the rules of procedure, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17927	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Momir Markovic first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17928	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Rules of Procedure, Rule 104, the MP is obliged to speak the truth, not to read any further this article. Yes, Mr. Bogdanović - excuse me, I was pulled out of this, because yours said, Mr. Petrovic and Bogdanovic, so I say, Mr. - Yes, he's been working very well with the Zemun Municipality since the moment you made the financial side and mutilated the co-operation in the distribution of funds. When calculating what salaries are employed, what are the material costs of employees, the Zemun Municipality has 5.5 million dinars left for investments, that is 20 meters times, or 50 meters of water supply, etc. As for Surcin, Mr. Obradovic is absolutely right. The president of the municipality became ill, the deputy president of the Assembly cancelled the already scheduled session, the group, among them "nn" persons, were not all council members, in the cafe in front of the building held a meeting, elected, distributed functions, etc. The point of the problem in Surcin is that you are the municipality and made it to separate part of the electoral body, which has always voted for the SRS. That's one reason. Another reason is that the privatisation of the PIC country, several hundred hectares, is that the municipality participates in all of this, and they have thrown around the Feed product, the candidate for vice president of the Assembly, which you now have, Vojice Janosevic, and another group of people from Surcin gathered around a protected witness, cannot mention his name. So, Mr. Bogdanovic, since May, SO Surcin has no means to work with today. Take the calendar, see what day it is, and see how long it took you to pay off that congregation of municipalities. As for the shift of power, as far as the majority is concerned, that has yet to be determined. There's a lot more, but let the councilmen do it in So Surcin. Let's get rid of the bag. You're criticizing Dinkic, and you're acting the same way. There is no difference between you and him, only he is at Serbia's level, and you are mayor in Belgrade. Both of you have squeezed a bag of state money, and only if it can leak anywhere near it can it, if it doesn't, to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17929	National MP Nenad Bogdanovic. On what basis, Mr. Bogdanovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17930	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. Just like Mr. Markovic, misreading from everything that follows. I really listened to you very carefully, and you're just telling me from this pay phone to do what I normally do. I thank you for asking Mr. Obradovic, and you, Mr. Markovic, but to do what I should do. So, making a joke out of this isn't a joke to me. Just because you're trying to make something funny out of this, it's not funny to me at all. It is unacceptable that this happens in a municipality where most of them, and it is known what the majority of the congregation is, you have 19 council members, 10 have signed that they have held the assembly, we have asked for written statements from them, held a session of the assembly, scheduled, to which the president did not come. You're absolutely right. That should be determined by the Ministry after that. That's not what I do. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the scene: Now you're from the pay phone.) Can you let me finish? Please let me finish. After you go out, so go ahead, there's no problem. So we have a clear situation. What did those who lost power do? Locked up the community, just like on Starship. They put stamps in their pockets somewhere missing, no one can find them alive, and then I get a letter from a person who is no longer a functioner in the municipality to pay the money to the municipality. It can't be like that. It can't be done by any serious government. Gentlemen of the Radicals and gentlemen of the SPS, when you lose power, hand it over to those who have been elected to the Assembly to be power until the moment you get it again or until the Ministry disproves you that this power is not correct. That's how it's done in a normal world. I'm not gonna get any further, 'cause this doesn't make any sense. I'm never going to give a penny to people who aren't functionants who fake themselves. You can talk about it here for the next three days, for me that story is over.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17931	Mr. Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward. I'm guessing the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17932	Same member. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that Mr. Bogdanovic, apart from the tie, forgot a few more. You, as mayor of Belgrade, should know first of all that this is the first meeting in which SO Surcin works and I don't know who could have given us the keys to the municipality. There's two things. This is the first call, and the second thing is there's no community. It's a newly formed municipality, which still doesn't even have a building and what's important is that we've been given power by citizens of the Surcin municipality. The government is not something that can be lost. It's not a firecracker, so it can fall through his pocket and get lost, nor have we lost power here. If you want to talk about facts, then talk about what happened on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Municipality of Surcin. You're saying that 10 people signed some kind of statement that they held a session of the Assembly. First of all, you should also know that there are 21 members of the So Surcin, and therefore 10 people in no way can have a majority and cannot have a quorum to hold any session of the Assembly of the Municipality, nor to make any decision. That can't be good. When the session is held in the pub, then, Mr. Bogdanovic, only roasting can be good. There is nothing that can be good, nor can those decisions be valid, nor is it your right and duty to give any person any money. What was your duty was to deposit on that jury the funds you were obliged to pay, and because of this usurpation, only the citizens of the Surcin municipality and the employees of the municipality are the ones who can't because of your arrogant behavior to get paid for two months. If you're going to talk about the Starship Community Assembly and that's a very good example for Mr Bogdanovic how representatives of the SRS behave democratically. We, in the most democratic way, won power in the Assembly of the Municipality of Zvezda, respected everything that should be respected by the Rules of Procedure. That's the Rules of Procedure your municipal majority brought at the beginning of this assembly. We were against the Rules of Procedure back then, because it gives too much authority to the president of the municipality, but you did it on your own, and you thought you'd be in power most of the time, that you'd have the president of So Stars. Mr Stojmirovic used the right that the Rules of Procedure gave him and he postponed the session, scheduled for June 28th. So, according to the Rules of Procedure that you brought. You, too, were extremely undemocratic. You couldn't stand it. You took power again. The fact is that we rule more and more Belgrade municipalities every day. At first, it was Zemun, in the previous session in the previous local elections, so then it's now Zemun, and Surcin, and Sopot, and Grock, and Starship, and in the next, we'll probably have a dozen, and that's just what the citizens want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17933	Replica, the first National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and a replica of the National MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17934	I'm using the line right now. Mr. Bogdanovic mentioned me. I think he best in his presentation has shown how he understands the Law on Local Self-Government and the function he performs. So what's in the interest of my party, it's okay, which is in the interest of the Democrats, it's okay, and everything that's not in the interest of the Democrats, it's not right and it's not in accordance with the law. The mayor of Belgrade is not authorized to interpret the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, nor to determine who is in one of Belgrade's municipalities the majority and the minority. The main thing here is that the session for June 28th was scheduled and cancelled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Surcin Municipality Assembly. That's the whole story. The essence that the city's, as it is already called, secretary, a finance man, some Mr. Baec, took his right to, by order of the DS, not to transfer funds to function in that May municipality. In the O.R., we need to determine who the majority is and who the minority is. Neither can the DS, nor can I, nor can any of the MPs present. The So Surcin Hall will determine who the majority is. When session SO is scheduled, if that alleged majority so requests in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, or if, of course, President SO, if he returns from the hospital and if he is healthy, So schedules. It is known that unless the SO sessions are held within the scheduled time limit, the Law on Local Self-Government has certain provisions that regulate that issue. Can't the city government, can't take DS, can't take it for granted, like she did, that she's preventing the transfer of funds and that she's giving an interpretation of who's legal and who's illegal. I know, the DS has the media under its own hand and they've been explaining to all of us these days how it's all right. It is not right and it is not true, until the Assembly is called up in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure – that, of course, the people of DS, Mr Bogdanovic, know well, but they will not cross over the mouth – until the session of the SO is convened in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and the session of SO itself is determined who the majority is, and the minority, everything else is a matter of politics. Unfortunately, it also shows the hypocrisy of the DS around this amendment. They object to a possible abuse, and they are in practice making absolute abuse, and it is a double person that is regularly shown.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17935	Replica, MP Nenad Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17936	It's really no big deal to lose power. I don't understand at all, so why is it such a problem for the SRS and the SPS to lose power in some municipality and only where you lose power there are problems. Where others lose power, they retreat well, they give in to those who win, and it's totally normal behavior. Now I understand some other things, I know that the young gentleman with the tie, who's proud to be wearing a tie today, that he has big problems and I understand him. What's happening to the SRS in Belgrade is not easy, but that's what you have to solve within your party. We won't interfere with that. Why are so many councilmen leaving you now? You were the first to do what you objected to in Zemun, because you bought two representatives of one other party to gain power. No one was making a problem about it, they said, okay, you bought it, let the government give you power. You do it all the time, you do it, it's good, it's so heroic, it's radical, and they leave you at the Savaweave, Obrenovac, Lazarevec, I don't know where the council members leave you anymore. By the end of this term, you will be out of half the council. That's your problem. Don't blame us, people, for selecting another president of the municipality, not one of your own. As far as I'm concerned, I repeat again, I will never be an arbitration officer. Mr. Obradovic, I have an official record from the assembly, that's what the offices of the City Assembly have, and you know it, where the assembly in its assembly has chosen a new president and a new vice president. Those who forced themselves into some rooms, broke into them, now locked them up, and now they don't let anyone in alive. It can't do that, it can't do that, please. Let the ministry make a decision, as the ministry decides, we will respect it. I don't have a problem with that kind of thing. So, as the ministry makes a decision, I'll respect that. Until the ministry makes the decision you expect, let those chosen to exercise power, do not harm the citizens of Surcin, please. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17937	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17938	Mr. Bogdanovic, you said you'd never answer again, so, of course, you answered. You can, of course, and again, but you've changed the thesis again. So, just where you take power, there are problems, not where someone loses power. Why? Because you take over savagely, you take over from the Rules of Procedure, you take over undemocraticly. You're the ones who take over in the pubs and in the fields. As for where we lose the councilmen, whether someone leaves us or doesn't leave us, don't worry about who's who's leaving us and where we've lost the councilmen. You should know that in a party that is democratically internally arranged, so, like the SRS, it's a perfectly normal and natural process and there's nothing more normal than to waste some rotten apples from every tree. What's the point of the story here is that instead of you running away from that rot, you're chasing, taking, hugging and boasting. So if you think any of those who fell out of the SRS will be able to contribute DS, if they're going to experience any new youth, if they're going to be one of the better ones, and we've had it rotten, I've got nothing against it. You must respect the rules of procedure of the assembly of the municipalities. Of course, it's not a problem for us, and we're proud to shut down some councilman somewhere, and that's exactly the best proof that it's not just the government, but we're willing to sacrifice one or two places, but to sacrifice the principles. Here, even in the case of Surchin, you openly admitted that this gentleman, whom you wanted to choose as the president of the municipality, was one and only condition. It's the best place to see the difference between SRS and DS. We have come to power, but we want power in the next term, and for this reason we did not want to trample our principles and allow the gentleman in question to take advantage of himself. So it was much more important to us, and you agreed to fulfill his desire to be the president of the municipality, to make personal use of it, because what you can take at this point is the most important thing that you can do. It's the only principle difference between you and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17939	On what basis, Mr. Vlahovic? First according to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17940	So, I'm reporting for a word under Rule 104 of the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and as an authorised representative of the DS. The previous speaker unwarrantedly accused the DS of taking over savagely. I can understand the frustration that the party represents and has gained over the past few years, because I really don't understand whether the savagery is a smooth victory of President Tadic in the presidential elections, whether savagery, by the way, is mentioned over the candidate of the parliamentary group, or the party that the previous speaker represented, whether the savagery is the smooth victory of our candidates, Mr Nenad Bogdanovic, in the city elections, whether savagery is the fact that, for years back in the past two years, the best election results. I'm sorry if you see it as savagery and what is yet to happen, and that is the DS victory in the extraordinary parliamentary elections. It's the highest degree of democracy. The DS knows he's winning, he can handle defeats, and when he loses to behave with dignity, he knows how to look at his mistakes, to correct them, but he doesn't change the essence of his policy, and that's why DS citizens recognize as the only true force that this country can push hard towards the EU. Because, however you understand the democratic behaviour of the Democratic Party, if you think that the regular victories of the Democratic Party are savagery, that's your problem, I can only say that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17941	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17942	These big words are in fact the intention to escape from the essence, and here is the essence that the Assembly of Surcin Municipality was scheduled and cancelled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of Surcin and that a group of people met in the pub, declared themselves a majority, wrote a letter to the mayor and told - we are now most of them, and he of course couldn't wait and he took it to decide who to transfer funding funds to. A classic example of abuse, a classic example of hypocrisy, a classic example of double relationship, and then a story of great principles, of democratic values, of great goals, all of this falls into the water before a simple fact that the Assembly of the Municipality is scheduled and cancelled in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The alleged majority did not request the appointment of a new session in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. In late August, as far as I know, it expires three months after the Assembly of the Municipality has to be held. Perhaps, in the meantime, if the alleged majority does not schedule a session of the Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, they will have to hold a session and then this may be determined what Mr Bogdanovic is talking about, that these people have made a new congregation majority. Then we'll know that they are most. The question is, what about the deprivement of So Surcin, employees and all the jobs that local self-government does in that area, what about those people who will be denied because the funds are not transferred. So, Mr Bogdanovic took the right to interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Statute and the Law on Local Self-Government. He even used one ugly insinuation that the ministry would make a decision. I don't know what the ministry will decide. If I were in a situation, I would suggest to the ministry to create conditions to hold a session of the municipality's assembly, so that with the presence of all elected So Surcin committees, the majority and the minority are identified. No individual can take the right to interpret the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the statutes, the law, and not particularly the Democratic Party in such a way as to deny the functioning of local self-government in one of the Belgrade municipalities, such as Surcin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17943	On the occasion of the amendment, the word has the People's MP Goran Knezevic, and Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17944	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we apologized nicely about these interesting topics, I would like to try to get back to this as less interesting as possible, and these are amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. A colleague, Vlahovic, spoke about the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. I would remind myself of some general things, and that is the treatment of local self-government at the government of the Republic of Serbia at all. In April, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a second report on the implementation of the European Partnership Priority Implementation Plan, according to the Department of the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, saying that one of the main tasks is to adopt and implement decentralisation reforms and ensure local capacities in order to enable the efficient implementation of administrative and financial affairs. So that's the government's conclusion. In practice, everything is the opposite and everything seems to be just to make local self-government as weak as possible. I have to remind you of November last year when we passed the Budget Law, when practically the first law was adopted on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, with the amount of transfer funds of those 13.8 billion dinars, in order that only about ten days later the Law on the participation of cities and municipalities in the distribution of these transfer funds would appear. So, that as local self-government, we were put before the final act, that we couldn't affect the amount of these transfers and something else happened that was, according to us, and we mentioned it, scandalously, which is that for the first time in a long time, there were no criteria for the distribution of these transfer funds. That's exactly what this amendment is about, our amendment, and what it's trying to prevent, and that's the distribution of funds towards political resemblance. If you remember, then some 70 amendments were made that required that the transfer funds of some local self-government be increased to Belgrade's expense, which, of course, is wrong, because Belgrade, as the largest and capital, is withdrawing the largest amount of transfer funds. At that time, the minister promised criteria and budget rebalances, as far as local self-government is concerned, and that was due until March 31st, that was the promise. In this rebalancing, except for data that local self-government vaults have achieved surpluses, there is no word on that. Even this data on surplus funds in local self-governments, the minister said that out of some five billion over four billion cities have achieved and these are exclusively source funds, this is not about other sources but only the original assets, primarily from the construction land arrangements, meaning the city's rents used by these cities. So all the other local self-governments, 150 or 160, made all that one billion. Therefore, that information is not relevant to me. In 2004, a budget calendar was also not respected. That's what he's trying to fix this year. This year it was a little late with the memorandum, but there's another term in the Budgetary System Act, and that's reviewing the memo out there in October, so it's going to be relatively consistent and it's going to be okay. I'd like to draw attention to another example of concern and disrespect for the government's promises of local self-government. In fact, in the procedure, as you have seen, the Law on Public Enterprises and the exercise of activity is of general interest. The main objective of this law is, above all, the restriction of the right of local self-government to determine the price of services and the amount of earnings in public enterprises that are establishing, which is totally one decentralisation. This act is totally ignoring local authorities and the Standing Conference of Cities as its association. The problem can also be shown where local self-governments have made contact with donors, who have conditioned their donations by practically increasing prices within a certain time limit to a certain economic level, so that they can also be denied. This bill even provides for sanctions in the form of a halting of transfer funds, which is beyond the law. To return specifically to this amendment. All this concerning that amendment has been regulated by Article 7. The law, where it is foreseen that the minister may temporarily suspend funds to other levels of local government, provided that the implementation of funds transferred from the budget to other levels of government threatens the implementation of the Constitution and the special law laid down by the obligations of the Republic. Mr. Vlahovic spoke of the possibilities. I would just say that, given the regular work done by local self-government, their obligations, I would suggest to my colleagues that we adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17945	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17946	It's a shame that this wrong member of the discussion went the other way, but you can see what Junior Dinkic thought of changing Article 7. The law on the budgetary system, and by having the idea of completing attitude 4, which should read: "If the implementation of funds transferred from the Republic's budget is carried over to other levels of government... "What am I thinking here -- if you're executing funds? This could mean-- if you're spending transferred funds. It's wrong, it's unclear. He suffers from these vague formulations that allow him everything. If it is thought "if the transfer of funds from the Republic's budget is given to other levels of government", these transferred funds, "threats the implementation of the Constitution and the special law of established obligations of the Republic", how is that possible? How can the transfer of funds planned and given with certain dynamics to compromise the achievement of the Constitution and the law of the prescribed obligations of the Republic of Serbia? It's an impossible category. Here, now I'm going to prove to you what's possible with young Dinkic. You see, this year's budget was planned with 416 billion dinars and a system deficit, reportedly uncovered, about 20 billion. We're counting on no deficits. So 416 billion is the total budget. For the first six months, if we go that's a month of 1/12, then 6/12, it's coming up somewhere, about 208 billion. So 208 billion were to be accumulated for the first six months of this year. According to the report delivered to us with the budget, we see that 189 billion were collected. That's what the Treasury wrote. Now, you explain to me how the surplus showed up. Between 208 and 189 there are 19 billion missing, but Mladjan Dinkic found a surplus, he doesn't know what a minus, what a plus. That's what I'm telling you, since it's going to be one of the next members, that you're going to see total ignorance of what a surplus is and what a deficit is. Now let me go back, since this is a good preparation for this member, which is covered by this amendment for which I have come forward. So, independently of the National Assembly, which has brought the budget, independent of the appraisals and what stands in the divisions, independent of the three-month plans and dynamics of budget implementation, the minister needs another authority, to conclude and say: we cannot transfer these funds, because then the Republic cannot achieve its elemental functions. People, you already have this situation with this pointless story about the surplus and the deficit, where you entertain the nation, you're driving the nation crazy with some concepts that don't exist in our budget reality. You are now in a terrible debt of money, which directly, which indirect users of funds. You provide the liquidity of the budget to a single misery, both by buying and selling securities of value, debt, etc. You're now saying, "unless the Republic can fulfil its obligations under the Constitution and the law." Well, the Republic hasn't fulfilled its obligations. If you go with that logic and you give this man this authority, he can lift all the funds transferred, he can lift the funds for everyone. Who can give these powers to the finance minister, regardless of what Mladjan Dinkic is currently doing. No finance minister can have this authority, because then the question is, what does the Assembly do when it brings the budget? Who made the mistake? If the minister has made a mistake in revenue or made a mistake in expenditures, let it be corrected, not everything and everything to write. However, this has its logical meaning, because in one of the following members, and I will go out for that member, the minister provides for himself the right to skip local authority and grant funds from the Republic's budget. Of course, there are certain conditions: unless there are enough funds or something there appears, etc. That's what it is: Davinic goes and says - you'll get 10 million, just let the G17 go plus; the younger goes into his Vlasotince - you'll get it, so we'll do it. This where the G17 plus is in power, that's fine, that's where we're gonna register the peasants a little bit more, that's where we're gonna take a little bit apart, etc. We have symbiosis at local level. You see, some local authorities have problems with transferred funds coming from the Republic's budget, and some don't have those problems. Where's the math? The math is in G17 plus. Where's G17 plus, no problem with funding. If the G17 plus in the bar isn't in power, it'll be a funding problem. I'm surprised about those little old replicas, there's all these mixed-up grandmothers and frogs. Whether the assembly was held in a pub, whether the fiscal accounts of the ten signed that they were not for the president, etc., is irrelevant to the city's budget. The local government has its own account, and it is known how long it takes the city's assembly to pay, to contribute, and it goes according to its automation. It doesn't depend on the bar account, or on who the mayor is, or who the president of the municipality is, nothing depends. He's got his own budget automation. This is where those functions and those obligations are met based on public finances. That can't depend on the individual. How can the salary of a Surcin municipality employee depend on who will be the president of the municipality? I can't figure that out. But here, the dislocated topic is placed on the agenda, at the beginning of this session. Since I know that this debate is not in line, much more is the answer to the debate on the Budgetary System Act, but the Budget Rebalancing Act for 2005. Why? Because we need to get naked, show how it's done, and this is not how it's done in any country on the globe of the Earth. Some basic things are forgotten here. For the budget and what we vote once or twice a year, and it's about funding the state to use that generic word, it's the most important plan of expenditure for us. We give authority to this level, the Budget Law, so the government can spend state resources. That's the most important item. We've been dislocated here, it's said: Sufit. What a surplus, you don't meet this budget, not dynamically, not by means. Then he's been chewing around for a month, "the first time in history," so he read to us here from 1881 to today which governments have been successful, which states are in charge, which have deficits, surpluses, etc. Of course, the Junior now shows that his Ministry of Finance is effective. What about obligations? Efficiently, they kicked people out of the army, out of the state service, shut down the economy. Well, kill people and then you'll have a zero item, there won't be any public costs at all. Call a reward: whoever hits a pensioner gets 500 dinars. You have also reduced your obligations on the basis of the social obligations of the Republic's budget. That's not enough for you either. Now the minister will evaluate. What can he estimate? Who is he to assess whether transferred funds need local self-government or not? That the very transfer of funds to the Belgrade City Assembly put the Republic's pension obligation at risk, so he found it necessary to deprive it a little bit. Who is he? What does he want now? He seeks authority to correct his mistakes in planning public expenditures. If he's capable, let him work. If he's not capable, let him resign. We're here in conflict. If elected between Mladjan Dinkic and the law, Mladjan Dinkic won. If elected between the court verdict and Mladjan Dinkic, Mladjan Dinkic won. That way anyone can be a finance minister. He doesn't need school, he doesn't need knowledge. Although, this one doesn't have much either. Anyone can do it the way Mladjan Dinkic does. Let him answer to us-- these government bonds and what the Action Fund was selling, is that paid? Why doesn't he answer if he paid off whoever bought the stock, say, "Knjiza Miloša"? Answer whether or not he has paid after the payment deadline has expired. He's selling some banks. So, did the foreigners give money to those banks? Guys, we have a problem: whatever Mladjan Dinkic is caught on, it's drying up. That picture won't tell us this government. The G17 won't talk either. In addition, let Mladjan Dinkic get the authority. He says, "The minister can temporarily reduce or suspend funds transferred to other levels of government" etc. This variant is possible, it is located in one of these provisions of the basic text of the Budgetary System Act, but it is related only to the inflow of funds, and the basic principle, regardless of how the budget planning has been carried out, is spent only on what there are funds, only that is spent. No, he's telling us about surpluses, historical results, and that's never happened before. Of course it all comes down to the name and name, character and work of Mladjan Dinkic, who is everywhere present, and CDs, and music, and banks, and other financial organisations, and insurance companies, and the army in particular. Now he's preparing to sell out, now he's informing us, now we're going to win, is he doesn't know what the balance sheet is, and what the balance of success is. That's our basic problem. He doesn't distinguish between two elemental things. That's what you'll see when we get to his favorite topic -- budget surplus or deficit. And if someone were to ask him, how are you going to calculate what you wrote, college professors say that Mladjan Dinkic wouldn't even know how to answer, let alone calculate it. Now, these professors of his are talking about that expert of yours. I don't know who in finance could have calculated based on what the younger one had come up with to put into law. That's impossible. That's what people who work for 20-30 years at the Ministry of Finance, follow the budget professionally, and they get baptized with both their left and right hands, except, of course, no one can, because everyone knows that he's vindictive, he's going to be fired, and he's going to run and get away, and finish the job, because he has this dictatorial line. You can't give a minister that kind of authority once. The power to deprive funds from the appropriate position of the Republic of Serbia's budget is possible, but it must indicate what conditions are and I am incredibly and absolutely certain, and that is when otherwise it cannot be filled with the budget to settle the necessary public expenditures. Then it goes proportionally, so there are priorities, what is the primary obligation, what is, so it's probably where the investments are missing, there's no development, and first there's those givings that are necessary for the state to function. The younger one doesn't know how the state works. He can only abuse this authority, which he has seized for himself. He can't use it. Furthermore, something like this can't be the authority of one individual, it can't be because this assembly practically defines the budget system, prescribes who is and what is responsible for and never can the minister get this jurisdiction. This jurisdiction may eventually be obtained by the Government, but very specifically, conditions must be stated, criteria in order to know it, and not like this, the Young One uses Article 1. The last position and he says, I prescribe it in accordance with the law and by law and then says, the funds that are transferred, I can immediately recover 60% by 30 days. This is used, of course, by public enterprises of republican importance, and specifically by the Road Directorate. Then the whole chain of them goes into dubiosis, and so he brings the road companies, he makes them practically, into bankruptcy, because they have to give up interest, because the real income in these conditions, and the inflation that is essentially 20% is covered up. That's where you say 14, 15%, and that's how it's gonna be. No, it's going to be 20% real, and what it does, it's something hidden, so it shows us that the song is much nicer than it is and, of course, to make it up to the end, he invented a surplus he doesn't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17947	Time. Thank you. Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. This amendment provides that Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 are deleted. I don't know how much more sense it makes to argue like this without anyone from the government, and that's something we've been doing for days, and I'd say for weeks. I don't know what the reasons for the government of the Republic of Serbia, or ministers persistently ignoring, are persistently avoiding the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, why they ignore not only MPs of the opposition, but who are trying to make at least some changes and improvements in the laws on the agenda in the end line for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that you from the ruling majority, the few of you gathered here during the day, should nevertheless, for the sake of both the dignity of your and the general National Assembly, insist on the occasional appearance of one of the ministers in this room. I think I let Minister Mladjan Dinkic talk here about two and a half hours about everything and everything, say all sorts of nonsense here, like he doesn't know economic or theory or practice, and then leave this room, it's not good. At least what he had to do, if he had already said that this time the explanation would be a little longer than usual, then he should have listened to what we have to say, and about this explanation he allegedly gave for these bill proposals and in general about the laws in principle, but God knows what we have to say in particular. Of course, the SRS will not vote in favour of the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. We have submitted a lot of amendments, I think30 amendments to this law, and we will make every effort to prevent what is the essence of this law, and as in other laws, especially which it proposes and explains on behalf of the Government of Mladjan Dinkic, it is the establishment of a monopoly of a political party in general in the country's economic system and the release of tentacles in order to control the complete economic flows in Serbia in every way possible. It's already done a lot with previous laws. All ministries that have anything to do with finance, the National Bank of Serbia, are in the hands of a number of agencies with G17 plus. And this is how you are now trying to give one of the final blows to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the general system of state administration. In this way you try to bring your influence from this republican level down to the local level and that literally every local self-government, whether the citizens in that municipality have shown you any trust or not, whether you have passed the electoral censorship at all, you want to establish control on the basis of the funding that is being initiated by any local self-government, and that in this way what you could not do in the elections beyond the national will and past the elections. With this law, you are trying to give the minister literally royal authority. There is no practical, and here is the fourth member I submitted the amendment to, there is no attitude in which the minister is not mentioned without saying that the minister can do this, the minister can do that. The minister can also conclude an investment contract, which means it depends on the minister's discretionary will. When you say - can, means that if Mladjan Dinkic is in a good mood that day, if he thinks that G17 plus will benefit from it, he will, otherwise - will not. The minister will also arrange for the use of funds for sub-accounts. It will, of course, be a "little million" subcalculated open. It is a way to make a closed circle, to unite in one authority and the one who gives payment orders and the one who executes those payment orders. That way you're disabling any control of what's done. So you won't know who gave the warrant, or how it was executed. It's a similar thing with these agencies you've been building. You thus do something that has so far been done by the ministries, which have, however, been under the direct control of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, moved aside and set up your party activists for agency directors. Then, away from the eyes of the public, you manage huge financial resources and you do absolutely whatever you want. The SRS opposes the establishment of a vault administration. You, of course, besides setting up a vault office, have local government vaults. The only thing left is to determine the trustees who will be in charge of certain local communities or certain streets within the local community. And to ban citizens from coming in any way with their finances and with their money, you might still be asking for some permission to open a wallet before any of us gets a permit from some G17 agent. I think this is quite the opposite of what you've declared to be your obligation. You said you'd go to decentralisation. Decentralisation is absolutely impossible if local self-government authorities cannot handle financial resources independently. It's the only way to measure how independent and how far decentralisation has gone in a country. In this way you do exactly the opposite, or financial subjugation of local self-government. Then one quite logical question arises -- how can you, if someone is financially dependent, say that the state system is decentralised and that local self-government has great powers. I think it's happening exactly the opposite. What was very interesting was during the discussion of Minister Mladjan Dinkic, which, of course, he can't answer us now, because, as usual, he's not there, is how he managed to find a surplus in the state budget for half the fiscal year, although we saw that of the 208 million dinars, what was to be charged in the first two quarters of this year, only 189 were charged. It means that more than 10% of the total funds, which were to be charged, were not charged. Regardless, Mladjan Dinkic, contrary to all economic rules, managed to find a certain surplus even before the end of the fiscal year, although we all know that the surplus is something that at the end of the fiscal year has passed. So, extra income over expenses. He managed not only to find that surplus, but he was able to schedule it in advance. I'm asking, how is it possible that something that hasn't been charged yet, and that you've already defined that you're going to spend over the year on these or those revenues, you're going to call that a surplus? If you accept that system, then you can say that the complete budget of the Republic of Serbia is a surplus. So, for all 416 or 418 billion dinars, if I'm not mistaken, which should be in the budget this year, you can say it's surplus, but we're going to set that up in this area, this many billions in this area. We simply see that this is an illusion, that not only is there no surplus here, but we are convinced that the state budget will end up in deficits. It's clear that the economy isn't working, that it's getting less and less employed. You're simply running out of sources to collect these revenues from. If in the first six months you charge 10% less than planned, and for the second part of the year you plan to fire people from the state administration and from other different companies, I ask you from whom, in the second part of the fiscal year, you will have budget income? You have formally reduced the value added tax, which must also be reflected in the budget. I remind you that the value added tax was a convincingly high tax revenue. Based on that, you'll have a budget reduction. It would be good for Mladjan Dinkic to answer, if there are already so many billions of surpluses, which then doesn't make a move, so all the laggings he has, and that, I'll remind you, is about two years for farmers' pensions, not worth it? It is a very clear answer why Mladjan Dinkic turns late pensions into public debt and issues bonds. This is due to the fact that these bonds, whose maturity is even five years – and we know that pensioners, especially farmers, are in an extremely bad financial position; you have double-crossed them for raspberries, wheat, you will probably do so for all other products that they can take to the market – they will not be able to wait to collect, which you know very well, but will be forced to sell them on the financial market, which again controls the G17 plus, before the maturity. Of course, it will not be in that value that is nominal on these bonds, but, if the bond, for example, is at 10,000 dinars, your associates, such as Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic and all others, will offer 300 dinars instead of 1,000 dinars, and will then buy these bonds for 30% of the value, as they have worked so far, to buy state-owned enterprises. But when they pay state-owned companies to these bonds, they will not be recognised 30%, but will be recognised the nominal amount written on the bonds and then you will, in that way, round this story and this robbery of Serbian citizens. The rich will grow richer, the poor will grow poorer. You will continue to go out here for a pay phone and say that you are pushing us, my God, into Europe, and instead, the citizens will live up and up from day to day, as they are living, and they will cramp in debt, and they will become more unemployed; you already have about a million now. I think that because of all of this, you should get serious, though, you -- whose popularity has fallen below 2% should still think about the honorable retreat from power, not waiting for the people to go out into the streets, so that he chases you. I think you'd better go alone while you can still do it honorably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17949	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Do any other MPs want a word? Here you are, on the same amendment, MP Vladimir Humane.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17950	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that there's a discussion going on here in that direction that seems to me the most disturbing and most painful to you is that yesterday's favorite topic, Minister Dinkic, was a surplus in the budget. I understand that it hurts you and that it bothers you, because your favorite theme, while you were in power, was war. Also, you said that inflation seems too high and that it might be 20% on the annual level. Of course, it won't be that much, but let's remind ourselves, when you were in power and favorite in power or favorite opposition, etc. inflation was 20%, but not annually, but daily. Then, we must admit that Serbia is not living well today. It's hard to live, but there are two truths to be said that we don't listen to the lies you're telling. First, today is harder to live than tomorrow, and secondly, in Serbia, it's not hard to live because they've been introduced to us with nothing and nothing deserved sanctions or that we're at war with 19 NATO countries, or because we're at war with former SFRY republics, or because we've had the biggest inflation since the Phoenicians invented the money. It is not hard to live in Serbia today, but it is hard to live because we have to correct all these things that you have done for the past 15 years. That's why you're living hard, but you'll be living better and better, just don't get too involved in finance, so we won't hear again today what we heard last week, which is that the tax is the form of a state racket, as your poor MP said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17951	I didn't get it. You support to accept or not accept?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17952	No, to say no.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17953	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17954	Mr. President, if you hadn't warned me, it wouldn't have been clear to me whether the amendment was accepted or not, since there were stories about everything except the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17955	I'm here to explain. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17956	I know you've been keeping an eye on all this. This is an amendment to Article 5. We're asking to erase something that shouldn't exist as a legal norm. This defines the budget surplus and budget deficit in a way that is not yet known. He's not famous, because no one's written this kind of doctoral dissertation yet. So this way of calculating is the patent of Mladjan Dinkic and the expert group G17 plus. Before I go through these attitudes to criticize them, just to point to something that I guess G17 plus would have to know or some of the G17 plus have to know. The budget primarily defines the volume of public spending and provides resources. Of course, the budget is always in the revenue side plan, something that needs to be achieved in life, human and economic, over the course of one financial year. Whether there will be surpluses, i.e. surplus revenues over public expenditure, not known at the beginning of the year. It is not known when budgeting, but by some consideration probably in the third or fourth quarter, when it is simply getting a much more realistic projection of whether the taxes have been correctly measured, whether customs duties have been correctly measured, whether the volume of external trade is such that income exists, and why not to say these taxes, why not to mention the revenues that the competent authorities do not mention, the users of the budget are making their own work, because there are also such incomes that are achieved through independent work and belong to the budget. So the surplus is impossible at this point to define. When surplus revenues occur at the end of the year, it is transferred to the next financial year. It's standard. But if one who executes the budget, which is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, realizes on July 1st that at the end of the year there will be extra income over expenditures, then it is the alarm bell. What's the government doing? It requires a change in all those regulations that generates obligations, i.e. the payment of what is public income, so perhaps if the tax on added value is 18 to be calculated and to come to a certain rate of 15, so much revenue is reduced and expenditures and revenues are balanced. It's one variant and it's a variant made by healthy governments. There's another variant. The second option is to rebalance, in which sense. In that sense, new positions are created, new economic classifications are passed by some new regulations, which define these funds, which are expected surpluses. Where? Development of agriculture, health, education, investment, purchase of actions etc. These are all possible ways, which, by the way, are said and the existing law on the budgetary system does not stop, it does not prohibit, but allows. What happened to us, so the government suggested changing this member, which defines a budget surplus and deficit? I must say, in the existing law of Article 13, as regards the budget surplus and deficit, it is more written because of the deficits as both the government and the National Assembly to determine the resources to cover the deficit. That's the shortfall. The shortage occurs when the state concludes, we can't raise taxes, taxes, because there's no one left to pay for it. After all, it can appear as a boomerang on the other side, so since there is a lack of funds, because the government's prescribed obligations under the Constitution and the law are far greater, then the deficit is determined and the coverage instruments are given. Whether it's a debt on the domestic market financially, whether it's on foreign financial terms, whether it's another transaction, but a debt transaction. The surplus goes as an exception. Now our young man has come to think of it and he says this way - he doesn't need that article 13. Article 13 now has to vote - the budget surplus, i.e. the budget deficit, is given in the same position plus and minus, is the difference between the total source of current income and the receipts achieved on the basis of the sale of non-financial assets and the total amount of current expenditure and the cost of obtaining non-financial assets. Now close the Junior in one room, give him paper and pen, give him budget parameters and tell him -- calculate my budget surplus or budget deficit, he wouldn't know how to calculate. I couldn't handle it either. That's why I'm saying I couldn't handle it, but I want to show what his personality structure is like. He knows something's impossible and he's pushing him because he has a support system. It's these thirty cards here, which are all going to vote, they all have to vote. There's no problem, and that's your right. That's not what I'm arguing about. I never slowed you down. I want to point out to the public, because in the professional public you haven't heard the man who said yes, what Junior's doing, that's fine. The papers are just full of criticism and they just don't understand what a man's doing. As far as Europe is concerned, I think you've been misinformed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17957	Don't advertise Sundays, it's not right. We've said it more than once. Europe Weekly, it's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17958	You do that to him at the MP's club... Mr. Markovic, at the MP's club, you warn him, not me. When I said Europe, I meant experts.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17959	No discussion with the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17960	I've been thinking about experts from international financial institutions who can't figure out what this is doing. After all, they rebel and say, "Okay, let's go, but it doesn't matter." Now, Junior has found us a primary surplus, as a total fiscal result, a consolidated surplus, etc. That I don't bother the audience or the MPs, especially experts who haven't read this. This is all nonsense, you know. This kind of thing can exist in some analytical views of public spending, public income and public expenditure, but that this is put into the legal norm and that it is built into the budget or what you have under a), b) c), you do not need it, because you know what budget income is. So, all that the law stipulates is an obligation to pay on the basis of taxes, customs, taxes and revenues made by state authorities and other bodies on the basis of their regular business, that is your income. It's income and interest. If the state sold its bond, that's income. If the state sold some property, that's income. If the state was a trustee, so she charged taxes, and that's income. That's all the revenue that's coming through this year. You are now introducing long-term reserves for the Republic of Serbia's budget, it can't, you have a plan and you see it by it. So, you know the income side, the cost side. We're talking about some categories here, they say, yes, but next year we have a commitment. The issue of commitments that come next year is resolved by law, but not by the Law on the Budgetary System and Provisions on certain surpluses and deficits, but by regulation. You voted a few days ago to issue long-term bonds for those 1,080,000,000 dinars, if so, you voted, so by 2024 the last war, the payment of ten years per half year, it should all be broadcast, otherwise there will be no bond broadcasting, but it will only be paperwork through the bank. Then go with some contrast, you know, we need to think, so we need to draw a line to see what our long-term obligations are. Long-term obligations are planned. The primary surplus includes plus and minus, the active and negative interest paid by the state, or charged. Why do you need that? If it is a positive interest, it is income, it is the regular income of the Republic of Serbia's budget and show it. Any item that's the revenue side you can break, so you've divided it into taxes and non-tax revenue, etc. To make the budget as transparent as possible, he's non-transparent and that's it for you. In order for experts to understand what it means for Mladjan Dinkic to have a surplus, which is like having a hundred dinars in your pocket and then saying, today I've made a change in the calculation methodology and how much you're going to have in your pocket, 120 dinars, you're going to have a hundred dinars still. Why does Junior now convince us that we have 120 dinars, and there are no 80, if debt and obligation are taken into account. Why are you going to all this? I'm not surprised at group G17 plus. I'm surprised the SPS supports this, I'm surprised the DSS supports this, and I can't figure out that you don't have any man who can grow up what's written here and what this means in the long run. So where does this go? This leads to chaos in public finances, that you know, total chaos in public finances. It's always been asked in this budget policy, give us revenue, give us the structure of these revenues, can be analytical for every item to show up, and where there were positive and negative interest, etc. Now let me go back to the previous amendment that makes a logical overall with this, to see why it was done. You see, in Article 8 of the existing law, something that has changed is going through something that is dangerous, which is the position 4 where it is said - in the sub-account of the third member's position, which is the sub-account, i.e. the consolidated account of the Republic and the local authorities, it is further said. So, they're particularly guided, so one of them here stands out to you -- "the funds allocated by the budget, or by the financial plan of the beneficiaries of the budget, or by the organisation of compulsory insurance," and there's a younger one, and it's still erasing what's next. What's he erasing? Deletes - "with which payment can be made only if it is approved by the budget, or by the financial plan. "It has been deleted to enable local authorities to do so, and it said, "in charge of finance", not even the assembly, not bigger, but the finance officer, he can invest in the financial market. What are his free resources? Why does someone stimulate them, then say, inform the administration, inform the minister, etc. And this is directly contrary to Article 2 of point 12 of the existing Budgetary System Act and not to order further. This thing, this change in Article 8 and Article 13, it's two different things, it's grandmothers and frogs. They can't implement each other at the same time, as changes to the law can't. They're the opposite. Then you say, on the financial market, it's like this, they're notifying the vault management. And then it's possible, here it's really possible that someone who doesn't have a bank, who wants to play banking business, wants to participate in the financial market, deliberately forms free funds, which can't be free funds under the Budgetary System Act, pushes to the other or third side, and that's the announcement I told you about and interrupts that Mladjan Dinkic will have a lot of secret accounts and subcalculations. That's why he needs the vault management. Imagine, Treasury Administration, consolidated account of the Treasury of the Republic at the Treasury Administration, and consolidated account of the local government vault elsewhere. It's an illusion to satisfy the local government, but no payment can be made without the vault administration. When you worked that vault office, why didn't you pick up all the vaults, to keep accounts of the vaults from all the local authorities. No, but differentiatedly, to hide a little from local authorities, a little from the republican authorities, that those from G17 plus can provide funds for future election campaigns for strategic positions. You have to say, we won't let you do that. We may not be able to vote, but we will inform everyone and use the opportunity to inform all citizens, and all bankers, and all taxpayers to know what Mladjan Dinkic and group G17 plus thinks to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17961	Do any other parliamentary groups want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) I use the opportunity to ask you, so don't be worried, not the minister or MPs, of course, can't use paper and pencil to calculate the surplus, and that's what the computer does. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17962	For what I'm saying, there's no need for you to use either a pen or a computer, especially because if this Hamovic's strong current hits, the trafo can burn. This is the new member of the 13a. In order for everything to be complete, the younger one came to terms, and now he says - the amount of the budget surplus and the way it was deployed is governed by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or by a decision on the budget of the local authorities. So he says -- the amount of the budget deficit and the way it is financed is determined by the Law on the Republic's budget, or by a decision on the budget of the local government. The consolidated surplus, i.e. consolidated deficit, is determined in a consolidated report by the Republic and is an integral part of the budget memorandum. This is a completely unnecessary provision. All of this existed in the existing article 13. Budgetary system law. I may not like what Boza Djelic wrote, and he was messing around here, he was the first to twist and introduce the centralisation of public finances in relation to local government, but the existing article 13, regardless of some objections that could be put to him, is completely sublimating these two innovations by Mladjan Dinkic, which concern members 13 and 13a. Let me just read you how much clearer that is, so he says, if the current revenues are higher than the current expenditures, there's a surplus. If current expenditure is higher than current income, the deficit occurs. The third position - the additional budget sets out how to use surpluses, i.e. how to finance deficits. If the budget goes beyond the deficit limit defined by the annual budget law, the implementation of the budget shall be suspended, in accordance with the provisions of Article 42 of this Law. The financing of deficits through foreign or domestic borrowing is arranged in a way designed for team members and team members and by the logic of things that would be this public debt law that has been passed. Very simple and very simple. There's no primary deficit, there's no total fiscal score, there's no these reports. It's all clear, it's all defined. What's it based on? It is based on the importance of public expenditure for the state, the way it will be covered, and if there is a surplus of revenue at the end of the year it is a surplus, it is transferred by automation next year. If a surplus can be identified today, it can be shown today in a rebalancing manner, but on condition that all the obligations of the state are met. Our country has not reconciled its commitments from the budget and how it can then think about the surplus, how it can project a surplus, when it said itself that we owe eight billion to the Road Directorate and that I don't order further direct and indirect users who owe money. How? He is in the Budget Law, which is the next item of the agenda, it seems to me that Article 3, has reportedly shown some surplus and what it will be used for. It could show as a commitment by the state, as an existing commitment by the state during this year. What does it cover with? What obligations does he cover? Is it possible that someone is planning something in the future, and knows that he has failed to fulfil his obligations, current obligations during this year? That's the problem. Media halabuka has been raised that only thanks to Mladjan Dinkic, the country's most successful business society has become so successful. Of course, when there are both the police tax and all the other authorities, it controls all the financial flows, of course it will be successful and anyone who leans on the budget, the priority user of the funds or the one who does something for the state, and by some priority, rather than any other road company, will be successful, but whoever does not have the priority at Minister Mladjan Dinkic is going bankrupt. How? The state owes him, the state made him give up interest on his claims, so the state sent him tax police in other ways. So our budget and this vision of the budget directed by Labus and Mladjan Dinkic is the only point discussed in the government. Just about the budget. They argue at government meetings, because some ministers raise their voices and say -- you know what people, this is impossible, not just the budget most important thing. There's just some financials that look at, look at it, take care of it. Where are the other ministries, where are other obligations that are not fulfilled. No, macroeconomic stability, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, they seek, they squeeze. Wait, people are dying on the street. It doesn't matter, to please these from Europe. People can't do that. That's not how budget policy is run. That budget policy can be run, there's police, there's this, there's this, it's got that, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got it, it's got to stop, it's got to block it, it's got the Here is a fictional display of a surplus, such as the great success of the government of Vojislav Kostunica with Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Those of the DSS will feel like it's none of their business. They don't care. They've left financials to Junior, and if someone complains they say -- you know what, we don't know, it's G17 plus. And you will be punished in the elections. I tell the citizens that it's all because of Vojislav Kostunica, it's not Mladjan Dinkic's fault, because Mladjan Dinkic is not the Prime Minister, but Vojislav Kostunica is the Prime Minister. If he doesn't know, let him ask, he has friends from the institute where he wrote about social self-management, so let them interpret what this means in practice. Since he doesn't object, it means he's complicit. The DSS neither defends nor attacks this law, they wisely remain silent. What do you expect from this? If this man is allowed to make these changes, the budget system of the Republic of Serbia has been destroyed directly. Now that you're in collaboration and it suits you at the bar to be in good relations, because your municipality is going to get, unlike some others, etc., or because when you pass a new law on the distribution of funds to cities and municipalities, it's going to be better to look at your municipality, because G17 plus in the coalition, you're wrong. You just had a chance to hear from Aleksandar Vlahovic and Zarko Obradovic. When the Democrats arrived in 35 municipalities immediately disbanded congregations, temporary measures were introduced, temporary organs. Is that how you want to get rid of what you've installed wrong here as an institute? I guess you don't want to. Do you think you will rule for life? No one in their right mind should think that. After all this statistical error analysis, don't do this stuff. Why are you complicit in something that doesn't even exist in theory? Take care, because as you can see the stenograms exist, the sessions are transmitted directly, people are listening, be assured that there are people in the population in Serbia who are little and understand each other in these things. To understand, you probably know that there are at least five or six people in every municipality in the Finance Secretariat who know what the budget system is. Everyone's criticizing this, this fiction that's pushing us through some fictitious surpluses, deficits. Last year, when the Budget Law was passed, we distracted you, you're talking about some uncovered deficit. There's no deficit, that's when we told him. It's been seven months, he came for a pay phone and admitted -- yes, in the first quarter we had the first two months bad, in the third something slightly improved, and in the next three months we covered a total deficit of 24 billion, so we have 900 million left at the end of June this year as a surplus. Of course, the people admitted, the deficit was a fictitious category, a simple fiction. For what? To show at that point that this is the first time in history that Serbia is not in debt to cover public expenditures. The past seven months, now coming and saying - no, this is the first time in history that the state of Serbia has made revenues, and this huge revenue, greater revenue than Sartid and these 10 major exporters. Let's see what happens next. To invent the next mascot to be used for 5-6 days on television before the session, and when the time comes to discuss it, the Mladjan is gone, and now he has Javier Solana, the property of the army, and now we're going to do other things. And then there's another topic for this one to go underground, because it's supposed to be summer, nobody's following the Assembly, there's a little bit of a newspaper being read, there's little ratings and no one's going to be familiar with the essence of a simple prank being pushed here. It's already been seen. What can you think of next? Call Mladjan Dinkic and tell him the Action Fund sold its bonds. How much money is paid to the Republic of Serbia budget? Nothing, and you had a fight over the Securities Commission, then a criminal case, then the Government ambushed, and he kept his leg stiff. Tell us how much money is paid and what the financial situation is, how much you owe today to direct and indirect users, where you hold foreign reserves and what the structure of foreign reserves is. Give the consolidated balance of public spending. He's gone. How much of the budget is in the gross social product? Let's see how much of the pension benefits are scheduled, see how much for health care, what's the military's impact? Why don't you give the right economic categories, but some floscules, to entertain the experts of the third category. It can't be like that. You can't, you're destroying public finances.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17963	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Please start talking about amendments. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17964	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, you can see by Article 7 or Article 14 of the Law, that you are reading the amendments to the SRS, a little follow-up to the discussions of the SRS MPs, and in article 7, you have also accepted some criticism in the amendment and addition of the Law in part to try to correct some of the legal proposals that have been made while you were in the old DOS. Now in this new criticism you accept. So the old position 2 which is deleted reads: "October 1st - Minister is revising the Memorandum of Budget, taking into account the updated macroeconomic framework". Here, you tried to make something right, but still bad. You don't seem to understand much of the discussion and amendment of the SRS. The proposed solution now says: "October 1st – Government, on the proposal of the Minister... "So he's not a minister anymore. Mladjan Dinkic is trying to justify a little bit in front of the citizens and the National Assembly, so he does not seek so much power. But why doesn't it say "Government, on a proposal from the competent ministry, to be represented by a minister in the government. "And this half solution, in any case, is better than the previous solution. However, it is also proposed to delete one part of the text, which refers to the Memorandum of Budget and Local Self-Government, and in this indent proposed to delete it, it says: "June 1st – the minister delivers a Memorandum of Budget to local authorities and mandatory social security organisations, as well as a proposal for a framework in which local authorities can participate in the revenues from the republican taxes". The part "as well as a proposal for a framework in which local authorities can participate in the revenues from the republican taxes" is required to be deleted. The promoter here was, at the very least, short of reason, because as you make some other legal proposals, we're going to have to gradually return some of the solutions that you're proposing to delete now. Why did the promoter ask for this? Because by introducing VAT, this framework no longer exists. So VAT no longer participates in the budgets of local self-government, it is now the income tax of citizens. The law regulates how much is paid to local self-government. Someone who thought he was very smart asked to delete this part of the text. All of you who are now making up the new DOS and the new ruling majority, all in pre-election campaigns promised Serbian citizens that, while you rule Serbia, decentralisation of local authorities would be carried out. The best way to decentralisation is to decentralisation through local self-government, and not as some have suggested -- decentralisation through regions, so each region will have its own ministries, so governments, etc. Zorica Radovic suggested this. So it is best to decentralisation through local self-government, where some of the jobs the Republic of Serbia is now doing could also be done by local self-government. This is not disputed, and most parliamentary parties agree there. In order to be able to trust some local government with a part of jurisdiction, we must also provide a stable source of income for that local self-government. There's a problem. These revenues from the income tax of citizens are barely enough to ensure that local self-government is functioning, and even we have to have transfer funds, I think it's about 14-15 billion from the Serbian budget, for the normal functioning of local self-government. So, they stand out and they pay on their account. If we plan to transfer to them some of the powers that local self-government should have, and many things the Republic government should give up in favour of local self-government, we should also provide sources of funding for these responsibilities. How are we going to do that, if you're asking for income from some republican tax now, it doesn't have to be VAT, you're going to invent some other tax, and the frameworks that are going to participate in funding local self-government, these amendments and the additions to the law to be deleted? So, if in some time, which could be in a few months, maybe even in a year, if you survive in power, you can trust some of your powers with some law with local self-government. Then you'll have to schedule a new session on the Budgetary System Act and return this part of the text to the law. It's not much when someone has a short mind and thinks about it this way, so they're suffocating behind this pay phone, because you're always boasting about how you make a lot of laws, etc. Why would something that's been done to bring it down so we could do it again? Well, it takes money to do that again. That's why the short mind of those who earn here is short.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17965	Anyone else on this amendment? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17966	Since we're only talking about the amendment, I have to say that this applies to Article 14 that regulates the budget calendar and refers to paragraph 1, where the deadline is set. So, "by June 1st, the minister delivers the Memorandum of Budget to local authorities and mandatory social security organisations". That's not the problem. The problem is that it is deleted "as well as a proposal for a framework in which local authorities can participate in the revenues from the republican taxes". The most correct would be to say "republic taxes" instead of "republic revenues" or " budget funds", in that sense to define, since there has been a change in the tax system in us. I assume you understand what intervention is about. We couldn't go any further with this intervention, but just to say that it remains, with an existing misunderstanding regarding this term of "republic tax." What's the point? You have very small municipalities, where a few people do budget work who really know what they don't understand about the budget system. It's a situation with small municipalities. If, first of all, the Memorandum of Budget to local authorities and all that contains this memorandum as a general act, as one general act, which sees the problem objectively, not individually, but at the level of the entire state and the whole of that relationship, the Republic - the local government, rather than the specific municipality, is very important for these municipalities when they receive a framework. With a sense? So on the basis of this memo, we estimate that you can go from the budget, first of all it's transfer funds, use from - to, so it's estimated. Why am I telling you this? For one simple reason that when the time comes, the time by rule is too late, and then the MPs depending on where they come from, representing the interests of their place, their local authorities, they submit the amendments here, and then we have the agreement and we have to stop a little bit, so the minister promised, as was the last time, to the National Minorities Council and others who were not seen, and that it would be, and that through the current reserve, he would somehow straighten it out and roast it. Here you should give exactly because of these smaller municipalities some frameworks where they can count on those transfer funds. They're probably not the problem with their original assets, their own incomes, but they're all being grabbed, depending on their development and other criteria, according to the budget. Each of them wants to get as much transfer funds out of the budget as possible. You already in the Memorandum must put them clearly to the knowledge of the rules, positions, criteria, so, based on these criteria, I don't know, the number of residents, the number of schools, etc. But the frame for that can move from here to here. In that sense, it was our amendment, just to draw your attention to those small municipalities, where they have people, but the question is whether they know that budget system and this new one, and they're simply forced to call the Ministry of Finance and let them get away with it, is, what can we plan to do, etc., and then we have some finance officers and they add it up and take it away and they say, you know what, it's going to be so and so much and fit into those things, etc. You have to put one instrument to make it as clear as possible between whoever prepares the budget and the local government. That was the purpose of this amendment, not to keep this. Of course, there is no more participation of municipalities in the tax because VAT came and it is now a completely different system of reckonings, etc. This primarily refers to transfer funds. You have the criteria to determine these transfer funds for every local self-government. You need to tell them what the framework is going to be and so they don't make a mistake when planning next year's budget. In that sense, it was this amendment intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17967	Thank you very much, Mr. Krassic. Any other MPs? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Bogdanovic and Dusan Petrovic. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 7th of the amendment, Commissioner Jovan Todorovic is a mid-national MP. A representative of the proposings and the Committee on Finance accepted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17968	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10. The draft law is amended by Article 26. Budgetary system law, which regulates budgetary constraints. The existing law provides for two types of restrictions. The first type refers to changes in the draft budget that must be within the maximum budget deficit. The second type of restriction concerns the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget and must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditure by the same amount in order to establish budgetary balance. The draft amendments to Article 26 add a third type of budgetary limitation and relate to the surplus, so that the amendment reads: "The surplus set out in the government's draft budget, i.e. the local government's competent executive body, cannot be used to increase the expenditure proposed by the budget. "This specifically means that the draft budget can only determine how to use the budget surplus. In particular, the government is the one who decides what will be done with the budget surplus, and in fact behind the government is the finance minister, who usurped this power too. The congregation remains only a possibility for a statement to be made either positively or negatively. The assembly, as an authority to adopt the budget and amend the budget, is unable to determine the purpose of using the budget surplus. This proposed budget increase, and hence the budget surplus, burdens the gross social product with a total public spending of up to 60%. Thus, high public spending burdens the existing economy anyway. As the minister himself said, 50% of the economy works satisfactorily and 50% of the economy works badly. With such high public spending, we can't count on a quick recovery of economy and economic flows. By the way, even citizens can't count on a rapid rise in standards. Taking into account the size of the country's external trade deficit in 2004 and the external trade deficit that was designed for this year, which will certainly exceed $7 billion, and taking into account the structure of the external trade deficit and the structure of imports, it will be seen that only 11% of the total imports of waste on imports of equipment, and 89% of imports of waste on repromaterials, raw materials and goods of broad consumption, and over 50% are goods of broad consumption. With such an import structure and an external trade deficit, our economy does not have a chance to restructure this transition process that most Eastern European countries have gone through. It will certainly lead to the decline of a large number of domestic companies, which are not able to enter the free market and free competition to come out with products that will be competitive with imported products. The government had to protect at least one specific time domestic production, so that domestic production would have time to restructure and strengthen to that extent and become competitive with its products according to products imported into our country. In this way, uncontrollable and highly liberalised imports have been questioned by the survival of our economy and will result in the shutting down of those economic operators who could objectively survive on our market and satisfy domestic demand. In addition to this acute problem that is related to the level of public spending, which is the very height of the budget, the big problem is the losses made by public enterprises. It has not been implemented until the end of the restructuring of public enterprises and with non-economic prices that they have or through irrational use of public enterprises' funds resulting in considerable losses and thus burden the social gross product. All these negative economic indicators are causing an increase in the unemployment rate. We have reached an enormously high rate of unemployment that exceeds 30% and is at the edge of social rebellion and social dissatisfaction with the widest layers of citizens. The methodology, which the minister explained in his opening statement -- the level of public debt in charge of our country, where he explained that we belong to the middle-indebted countries, where he separated from the internal debt, indicates that it is not clear how we came to this data that the public debt of this country was in 2001 - 170% compared to the budget, and that today is 56%. That's three times the public debt reduction compared to 2001, which means 300%. It is unclear how these data occurred, especially about calculating the gross social product -- the total and per capita, where some data came about that the current gross social product is currently $2,500 per capita, and by coming to DOS authorities, you know that they have claimed that one of the lowest gross social products in Europe, in Serbia, is that the gross social product per capita is $1,250. It's just amazing that in four years we've doubled the gross social product, and that we have a 30% unemployment rate, that hundreds of thousands of enterprises went bankrupt and liquidated, where public spending exceeded 60% of the gross social product, where the external trade deficit grew year after year and reached seven billion dollars, as expected this year. The former SFRY, before the collapse, means in 1990 it had about $4.5 billion foreign trade deficit, and the country had over 20 million inhabitants and a much larger market, so it had no external trade deficit that we would certainly have this year. All these economic indicators tell us that we are going to have huge economic problems at the end of this year, for two reasons: first of all, agricultural production has not quite achieved the results of last year, which caused the growth of gross social product in the past year, this year will certainly not be; and the large external trade deficit that our country has achieved, plus the ino-debts that we have, the commitments that we have under the ino-credits that come to us in 2006, will certainly cause a debt crisis, which we will certainly fall into in 2006.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17969	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17970	These MPs who have read this amendment, which is proposed, as regards Article 10. The law on the budgetary system, they could see that here, practically, the National Assembly is being demeaning, that the government, for us MPs, regardless of the council, the General Assembly and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is rocking our slap, and that's a tough slap. See what they wrote: "The surplus set out in the government's draft budget, i.e. the local government's competent executive body, cannot be used to increase the expenditure proposed by the budget." Who can forbid it to the National Assembly, or to the congregation of the congregation, or to the congregation of the city? Who is this executive who can forbid how and for what will the surplus be used and how will this be planned? How are people going to submit the amendments? Who can forbid an MP to submit an amendment if the amendment proposes what to do with the surplus? I don't know how anyone came up with that. How did the government come up with that? You know, we've submitted a proposal, so in the draft budget, we've identified some surplus, and you, MPs, can't change that with amendments. How can this, and the motion of an act, be a ban on anyone who brings an act? Explain that to me, please, where is it? I fully understand that there is already one restriction. The restriction consists of Article 1 - 26 - original text of the Budgetary System Act. Yes, the government has provided some projection of how much public expenditure should be in the course of the year and who brings the budget, in particular, can do something possible about it, but must plan the funds. And there's one restriction. So, you can't raise public expenditure indefinitely without having funds. This is what you're saying. We're planning a surplus. Look, they're planning a surplus, and the People's Republic can't determine how that surplus is going to be used. How is that possible? Explain to me, I don't know. That would mean, practically, when you submit the draft budget law, we say -- we're not going to consider it and the government is going down immediately. How can something that is a proposal for an act be a restriction for someone who brings an act? Who's the owner here? Who has this legislative force - the National Assembly or the Government? When it comes to local government - City Assembly or executive body? You've completely messed things up. Now the Junior is telling us, I'm in the amending and supplement law of the 2005 Budget Act, and I said -- the surplus is going to be that big, it's going to be distributed to three items, one is five billion, another 23 billion, the third -- it's being transferred. Now you MPs can't change that structure and decide what the surplus is going to be spent on. Look out, it's an elementary absence of knowledge. It is possible in 15 days to pass a whole new law and to establish a new obligation. There are no other means, but there must be a re-purpose of the surplus that you allegedly have established. Either spending increases, or commitments increase, or inflation starts, and inflation leads to an increase in commitments? How can you forbid us, to those of us who bring an act, what can we do and what can we not do? The National Assembly is limited by a proposal. Where is it, people? It's nowhere to be found. That's not even in Albianic Požega. Even his school, where he was a math teacher, couldn't work that way. He thinks it's funny. Just laugh. This is impossible. Of course it's funny. An act from Mladjan Dinkic, the National Assembly must do nothing. How can he do that? Inform Kostunica that he knows what the minister wrote. I don't know if Kostunica knows why they raised their hands in the government. How can this go down like this? Why would tomorrow, as MPs, vote for this change and deny myself the right? Why do you deny yourself the right to adopt the Budget Law and when you adopt the Budget Law define all the parameters of the budget, and when it comes to public revenue, and public expenditure and, possibly, if the deficit occurs - how will it cover itself and, if possible, a surplus arise - how will it be spent? Here you forget the elemental things, that it is possible to change the law and that it is possible to increase the obligation that the current reserve and this cannot cover and that the re-purpose of the projected surplus should be implemented. You deny yourself the right. If you adopt this, then you say - we don't need to make a budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17971	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does any other parliamentary group on the same amendment want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17972	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like some attention to explain in the most concrete way his dissatisfaction with the contents of article 26 and the amendment to delete the entire article 26. In 2002, this law on the budgetary system was passed and that law defined Article 26, which is within the framework of the Chapter of the Limitation in Budgeting. It is not only a problem for me that the new position of 2 has established that the National Assembly cannot decide on the level of surpluses, nor that it deploys that surplus to increase any expenditure under the budget, but that I also have the disputed position of 1 of this article, as well as Article 3 as it is now proposed. In order to remind you, let me read the contents of this item 1: "A change to the draft budget by the National Assembly, or local Assembly, must be within the maximum deficit set out in the draft budget of the Government, i.e. the competent executive body of the Authority". Let's try to understand this attitude. If there is a maximum deficit, then it would be logical that there is a minimum deficit. If we ignore that, we here deny the right to the National Assembly that in the debate on the budget it can have enough arguments and have a majority to vote on the budget, which makes it possible to increase expenditure in the budget, while also increasing the budget deficit. Why would something coming from the government be constantly unchangeable? Who says the budget deficit in one financial year cannot be increased by 10 billion for justifiable reasons to 11 billion. Who says that's not possible? If there is such knowledge or new facts, we have here a budget calendar that is quite stretching, from April to December 15th, during one year, actions concerning budgeting. At the moment the 2005 Memorandum of Budgets was established, by the time we discussed budget rebalancing in half of July, many other things happened that could not have been covered by the Memorandum of Budget. We also had floods in Vojvodina, in the woodland, we had so much that we couldn't predict, so at this point we're in a situation where we have a budget deficit, why can't the National Assembly vote a greater deficit than it's supposed to be here. When you look at Article 26(3), the proposal to increase expenditure in the budget must also contain measures to increase revenue or reduce other expenditures by the same amount. Now look at the trouble of the MP. The MP with all arguments gives an explanation why an amendment should be accepted. But in order for that amendment to be in line with this law on the budgetary system, he has to say clearly and precisely - in this position I am removing some of the funds, to add to another position and increase the expenditure on what I consider justified. Can the MP do that? Is the MP supposed to do that? In particular, are all MPs in a situation to look at the total volume of public spending in the country of Serbia, and to propose measures to increase budget revenues in line with Article 3. Is that the job of a MP or a government? We have an addendum that the surplus set out in the draft budget of the Government, i.e. the competent executive body of the local authorities, cannot be used to increase the expenditure proposed by the budget. For me, this is notsens. I am not against financial discipline, I am not against the government being responsible for the state of finances in the Republic, but if we have shown in yesterday's debate that we have at least three billion excess revenues, compared to what was planned for the 2005 budget, why and for what reason deny the right of the National Assembly to bring through the amendment and the corresponding changes, i.e. increase some expenditure in all this. There's something else that's important here. At the same time, we are holding a debate on the Law on the Budgetary System and on the Law on Amendments and Budget Supplements. If we were to adopt the law on the budgetary system first, which will be when it comes to voting, then when we vote on budget rebalancing and amendments, we can't have any amendments to the MPs, which refers to a different schedule of surpluses, to accept, however justified it is. If it comes down to the level of local government now, then you have a situation next. The local government's executive body under the Law on Local Self-Government is the president of the municipality. It's not executively bigger. Under the law on local self-government, there is only one job to coordinate how it is defined in the law of relations between the president of the municipality and the municipal administration. There is no competence in respect of the budget to be executed. The executive body proposing the budget to the assembly is the president of the municipality. Now imagine the president of the municipality who says - I have defined that the surplus in the budget of the local assembly and in this year it is so much and so much. You councilmen in the Assembly do not have the right, nor can you define this budget surplus, as I have imagined, in any other way, but only as proposed in the draft budget. Is that logical? Is it normal to deny the right of both committees and MPs to change anything correctly in the draft budget? The draft budget works a lot. Many services, many ministries, many synchronisations are needed in all of this, but precisely because of the participation of a large number of entities in budget building, such failures may occur, which are needed by amendments by MPs in the National Assembly, or by committee members in the municipal assembly, simply repairs, or new circumstances have arisen. I'm not a lawyer, but I understand that the only restriction this National Assembly has can be contained in the Constitution, not in any other law. This National Assembly is authorized to adopt or amend any other law, including any budget item that is formally expressed as expenditure in the budget. Let's say, on this draft amending and supplementing law on the budget, I submitted an amendment proposing that the budget deficit in Article 2 be reduced from 32.5 billion to 29 billion, and that for these three billion, as far as the differences were shown, the total expenditures increased and the three billion proposed how to schedule. If we very disciplinedly adhere to these provisions that the surplus must not be touched, then that amendment of mine is not possible at all to be accepted, because you can't raise the expense of the surplus, you can't when you have a deficit, you can't when you have a surplus. You have a proposal that is in fact such that you can only accept it or reject it, and then there is no participation of the people's representatives, the MPs, or there is no participation of the citizens in a distribution of funds for that year or in the correction of those funds, which are provided for in the rebalancing. This is completely irrational and so there is no confusion in applying, in interpreting what the surplus is, the primary surplus, we have three definitions of surpluses and not a slow one of these definitions, but when we apply these provisions of the law to any draft budget law we'll have a problem. It wasn't even good what it was. With an additional provision on surplus, this article 26 is broken completely, so much so that it can't be fixed, and that's why I suggested that the whole article be deleted 26, not just to insert that 2nd point about surpluses. It just makes a mistake, unwarrantedly restricts the rights of the councilors and MPs, simply makes us talk routinely about the budget and serve here only to vote or not to vote something, and without having a fundamental impact on any changes, that is, changes to the proposal. So please think about it and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17973	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, we go to the MP group and then the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17974	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an extraordinary colleague, Jovan Todorovic, argued the reasons for this amendment. The principle cannot apply in front of this Parliament - take it or leave it. There's got to be-- fix it. If that's not possible, then there's no point in us sitting here. There's a term that's modern, and you've introduced it at this time, and before that, it's "transparentity," and now it's "capacity." So, with the full capacity of parliament, it is possible to do everything that is restricted only by the constitution and nothing more. The MP or committee member is hereby authorised to propose anything relating to the interests of the citizens, if he is able to do so and how well it is based on the law. There is a constant fear of MPs and councilmen here. I had already talked earlier about the announcement of decentralisation of government in Serbia over the past 10 years, and the more intense these announcements, the more powerful the central government was, and I advocate that we leave this principle and return to parliament what was given to it by the Constitution. In this case, and in some others, it is clear that outside parliament it is trying to make decisions that are within parliament's jurisdiction. It's not good and it's not a recommendation to any government, as much as it declares itself democratic. There is no declared democracy. There's a democracy that's come true, it's real, it's real. Therefore, I ask you to support Mr. Jovan Todorovic's amendment, which in full terms affirms this principle which provides the right for MPs and committees to not only vote positively or negatively, but to suggest that something be fixed for the better, which is the matter of those who are most or who are the majority at that time, to assess whether this proposal is logical, whether it is legally proposed. But there can't be a word about going out to the MPs like that, whether something can or can't, but can't be fixed. Then we don't need to sit here, but we need to agree one year to vote at once for a hundred laws that come and go home, because we have better things to do there. Budget, the most important law in one country, the most important act after the Constitution and the spatial plan. Based on the composition of the budget, a whole series of important issues are being implemented in one country. There are measures and economic and fiscal policies, and everything else that matters is that we can organize life in one country in a year. He who fears the Messengers will be brought to him by the self-will of the minister. He can't get away from it, no matter what the minister is. The MPs were elected by citizens, and the ministers were elected by parliament and the act. It has to be learned here once and for all. Who doesn't like it, gets on the list, gets out in front of the citizens and be an MP if he doesn't like being a minister. There's a big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17975	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. No one else from this group of MPs. The word will be given to MP Veroljub Arsic after the break. Pause until 2:30. Thank you. [[After break – 14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. On the occasion of the amendment to Article 10, submitted by MP Jovan Todorovic, in the afternoon part of the debate, MP Veroljub Arsic came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in article 10, it seems that something new has happened in the budget system, which is that there may be a surplus, so that the amendment to Article 10 can be made. The proposal, relating to Article 26 of the Law, puts in place a new position, which reads: "The surplus set out in the Government's draft budget, i.e. the local government's competent executive body, cannot be used to increase the expenditure proposed by the budget". The question now arises at all why, then, the National Assembly and who is the one who can present a surplus in some budget proposal, and whether it is possible in Serbia at all and whether it will be possible in recent times. The question of the good wishes of this member is raised, because by rejecting this amendment to Article 10, the Assembly itself binds its hands to the budget, i.e. it is unable to affect amendments to some draft budget law. It is the minister who has certain unlimited rights, because in Article 14. The law on the budgetary system is said to be submitted by 15 October by the minister to the government by draft the Republic's budget and financial plans of mandatory social security organisations. By 1 November, the government adopts the draft budget of the Republic and delivers it, together with the Memorandum of Budgets and Financial Plans of Mandatory Social Insurance Organisations, the National Assembly. If this amendment is rejected, the question is why would they deliver it to us, what can we change in this draft budget law. Is it possible at all that only one more thing can be done under the Budgetary System Act so that you can overcome yourself, which is that amendments can't be corrected in the Bill on Budgets, except that we're changing items in the same synthetic context, means by analogy, if the Minister predicted, for example, for salaries employed by 60 billion dinars, so now says the Ministry of Finance billion dinars, it can be a billion and 200, and only in the context of some changes. The budget law is the most important law the Assembly can pass. He defines the government's economic policy for the year and certain financial and economic flows in the country. With one such law, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should simply unconditionally and unnecessarily accept the budget as proposed by the government, i.e. the minister and nothing else is at stake. Simply through the item of the surplus, we have seen it now in the draft budget law, amendments and additions to the 2005 Budget Law, the minister himself has defined what his surplus is, where the surplus will be spent and the MPs have no right to discuss it. So, he can abuse that right in advance, not to define that surplus as a surplus at all, but simply to put it on the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, he writes that it is a surplus, will be used for that and the National Assembly can neither discuss it nor change it nor participate in it. The only thing we can do is reject the draft budget law, but that means that it's simply going down. Given that this assembly majority is in office of the government, it will not happen, but simply raises the question of why, then, is there any point in even discussing the budget, whether there is any point in submitting amendments to the budget, whether there is any point in trying to change anything at all. He can write that all 432 billion are surpluses and there's nothing we can do, we can't change that surplus of his. (Zoran Nikolic, from the place: You can't when you're a minority) Dear colleague, if you had read this a little bit, you would have seen that neither can you, even though you are most. No congregation can change that. (Zoran Nikolic, from the scene: Since when are we on you? That's for the uninformed. So, take it and read the bill of law that the Government delivers to you, ladies and gentlemen the MPs who support this government, read it carefully, don't let anyone in the government demean you, humiliate you. We have not yet been suggested by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Serbian Parliament, with us not being able to change it. You'll just sit there and push the buttons. Your head doesn't need anything anymore anyway, and it doesn't serve...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17978	Mr. Arsic, I warn you not to insult the MPs of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17979	So there's only one thing left, and that's to try through some amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to abolish the elections, because it's the only way to survive in power. There's no other way. As we've been through with the federal state, and the same people now run the republican government, how we destroyed the federal constitution, but you can always make a transitional solution, you don't need a referendum, so we'll also end the election. Some of you will be messengers for the rest of your life, and yet you will not be able to win a second term. Another question arises, as long as the people are as you are to suffer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17980	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Anyone else on this amendment to Mr. Todorovic? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Rankic. Before that, just one important announcement about the way I'm going to run the session. According to Article 85, paragraph 5. Today we will be working after 18.00 hours until the hearing is completed in the details of the agenda point. The vote will take place tomorrow, due to the schedule of time for MPs, so they know how to dispose. Here you go, Mr. Rankie, and thank you for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17981	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 12, which reads, "Article 12. The draft law supplementing the Budgetary System Act is deleted." In fact, Article 12 provides for the words "and indirect" to be added to Article 34 of Article 1 after the words "direct" are added to the words "and indirect". In Article 34, in the current law, the least that could have been done was to change the title above this article, and the title above the article remains the same – determining the extent of the expenditure of direct beneficiaries of the budget in a certain period, and then inserting it into this Article 12 and indirect, which does not exist in the title. If "indirect" budget beneficiaries are inserted into article 34, it is unnecessary to introduce them, given their attitude towards direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources. In a law that applies, without these amendments, the entire article 34 practically slipped through the MPs and was adopted in a form that is completely unclear. I will draw your attention only to the position of Article 2 of the existing law, which reads: "In determining the quota for direct beneficiaries of budgetary resources, the minister, or local government authority responsible for finance, having regard to the funds planned in the budget for the direct beneficiary of the budget, the plan to implement the budget of the direct budget user and the liquid capacity of the budget. "What's in mind? What? Quotas are brought in. That doesn't say. So, a large number of similar members have passed through the existing law, they are completely unclear and the most interesting position of this member is the last position, which is why we wanted to avoid the introduction of indirect users of the budget, which is that the minister prescribes the procedure and conditions for determining the quotas set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this article, as well as measures in cases of non-compliance with quotas. You see, so far, the minister has prescribed procedures and conditions for fixing quotas for direct users. Now these changes do it for indirect users. I'll tell you what, since I've already talked about the largest number of such laws coming from the Ministry of Finance and the largest number of members ending up with the minister getting closer to sorting something out. I would remind you of what Prime Minister Kostunica said during the formation of this government -- decentralisation, depoliticalisation, democratisation, etc. There's an extraordinary example of centralization here. Those who are directed and who work in, say, tax authorities or other public services, argue that even Stalin, if he could get out of the grave, would be ignored by this degree of centralisation, when it comes to public finances and when it comes to other matters. So let's see what the definition of who are direct beneficiaries of the budget, and what are indirect. Direct beneficiaries of the budget are authorities and organisations of the Republic, or local authorities. Under this bill, the minister could have determined quotas or closer to the conditions for determining the quota for these beneficiaries of the budget. When the word indirect is inserted, then, even as indirect beneficiaries of the quota appropriations will be determined by the minister and the conditions for calling those quotas, they are the judicial authorities of even local communities, public enterprises, directorates and funds established by local authorities financed from public revenues, whose purpose is the specific law. No matter what is not directly related to this member, I will tell you about the entire text of this law, why this law has ever occurred and why it has been proposed to us. You see here above what I read to you, and these are definitions, why some laws are written, MPs are completely unclear, that is, why certain things are written or repeated, and they mean the exact same thing. As far as the financial plan is concerned, the definition that has so far been in force in this law was as follows: "The financial plan is an act of direct or indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, as well as an act of the organisation of compulsory social security, which includes an assessment of the volume of current incomes and other incomes and the volume of current expenditures and other expenditures for a period of one year. "I don't know what changed in the world economy, in those economic flows, what happened, and now we have a new definition, and this one is deleted, a new definition of what is the financial plan, and it's exactly the same as the one that is deleted. According to the new definition, the financial plan is an act of direct, i.e. indirect, beneficiaries of the budget and beneficiaries of the mandatory social insurance organisations. It shall include an estimate of the volume of income and expenditure (including income and expenditure from own revenue) of the beneficiaries in the gross amount for the financial year. So the exact same thing, where it was necessary for this to change and basically the same thing to be said in a slightly different way, with two or three words, or order, being changed, is completely unclear to us. It is clear that the congregation is burdening itself, and this is extremely burdensome with such law - making proposals. In the light of individual members of the law, Article 12 is neither reasoned nor reasoned. It's over. I suppose it doesn't matter why the minister wrote quotas for indirect budget users, and I believe it's very important why it's done. I'm just going to say for a little while what it looks like is a larger inflow of funds than planned, which you call a surplus. I'll tell you on the case of one municipality how to fill the budget, or I won't state the name of the municipalities, but how to create this excess inflow from what you call a surplus. I'm going to start with one of the most basic things, which is catastran income, and let's say 10 acres of land, i.e. the liabilities are 0.4 on catastran income, and that's about 1800 dinars. Obligations are 0.4% on catastrian income times five, so it's accounted for. Why doesn't 2% stand out for anyone, I guess it'll be easier for a citizen to swallow when it's 0.4%, well, it's a little bit, and then it's multiplying by five figures, those who are counting are making it harder to work, but to avoid saying 2%, then it's a lot. Let's say, for example, a municipality in South Banat, one of the municipalities - 455.73% times the cadastrian income from disposal. Whether you can believe it or not, but this is from the county of Cereals, which almost had a lot of problems with the floods. The clean bill, as the tax authorities put it, already represents budget pushers. The cadastar income on the surface of 9 hectares 39 acres and 99 m2 is 1.728.76 dinars. When a tax on property is charged, and it is 34.58 dinars, it is entirely economically unwarranted to read such figures, for the simple reason that the notices must be sent by letter, according to the Law on Administrative Procedure, and this notice costs 48 dinars to the state. So in order to charge 34.58 dinars, the state has to pay 48 dinars just for notice, and plus people, funds, etc. However, the same man who owns 9 acres and 39 acres of disposal will pay 7.906,83 dinars. It's very difficult to explain to anyone in South Banat, in the municipality of Zitiste, that they've been paying this amount of disposal for years, and when there's a flood, practically, no one's responsible for it, and no one knows if this is public income disposal, and it shouldn't be. This should be the income of a particular company, which would be obliged to deal with what it charges for. So, to make a budget like that and fill the budget in this way, without telling you about nursing homes, because they are directly users of social security. Not to tell you what mandatory social security looks like for a nursing home, where two women live in a household, one of 82, one in 86 years, with 32 acres of total property, which this year must pay 19,000 for compulsory social security, counting 7,000 differences for last year, from July 1st, and that same household with 12 capable household members, who handle over 70 hectares of the most modern mechanism, for this year in the name of social security, pay 17.572,44 dinars, for 2,000 less than these two old women. In this way, filling the budget from those who are the poorest and then saying that this is a budget surplus is really unacceptable. It would be best if things like this didn't come before the MPs and they were discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17982	According to the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17983	So, you have concluded: after the flood, the only thing worse can be is the tax policy and the budget of Mladjan Dinkic, as you have seen from the example of Mr Rankic. Let's go back to this amendment to Article 12. In fact, what changes the government in Article 34. Budgetary system law? The quotas so far have only existed for direct beneficiaries of the budget. I must say again, because of the uninformed, that the direct beneficiaries of the budget are the authorities and organisations of the Republic, or local authorities. They have their divisions and their economic classifications, where all expenditures are shown. Of course, most of these expenditures are grouped according to special economic classifications, and we get in those tables and amounts. They make these three-month, monthly quotas in order to dynamically respect the Republic of Serbia's budget. So far, indirect users have not been provided for in Article 34, as Mr Rankic said, even after this change, and you do not place them in the title, for the simple reason that indirect beneficiaries of budget funds are, by definition, incorporated within the section relating to the direct beneficiary of budget funds. But let's see who these indirect beneficiaries are. And that's where we got the new definition. This definition is covered by Article 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. As follows: "Indirect beneficiaries of the budget are judicial authorities". Yesterday, we had a debate over the election of judicial officials and all the parliamentary groups that went out for this speaker pointed to the need to form a judicial budget. The minister of justice has promised us that in the next phase of resolving relations in our judiciary it will go towards making a special budget for the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia, that it will be under some control or in the hands of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Two years ago, a new organisation of courts was given, so we have appeals, administrative, etc., so the Supreme Court will get a new jurisdiction, and there will be no such jurisdiction, to be a supreme, supreme court instance, which works only in the appeal procedure and takes legal views on open legal issues during court proceedings and in some cases where the problem of the application of the rules arises. This is where the finance minister is a completely different advocate of the judicial budget. He advocates it as something that should be within some direct beneficiary of the budget, but by changing Article 34, he now tells us: "direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget can make payments to the amount of expenditure that, for a three-month or other period, the minister determines." Now let's remember the debate we had this morning, where we commented on the change in Article 7, where the minister could suspend, and then I pointed out the need to stop something or reduce it because the inflow is unbalanced, that there must be some criteria. In this way, the finance minister wants to have under direct control all indirect beneficiaries of the budget, so that the law gives him the authority to skip the direct beneficiary of the budget. This means that tomorrow Mr. Dinkic can go freely to the Supreme Court and agree on quotas and payments without Minister Stojkovic even knowing. He has a basis in what you will vote for him.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17984	Any other parliamentary groups on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17985	Just to let those who forgot that they voted on the Public Debt Act a few days ago. Article 15. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system refers to Article 36, which has the title - Management of commitments. What's changing in this article? In this article, paragraphs 1 and 2, the words "direct users" are added in addition to the words "direct users", which we have just talked about, but is changed in Section 4, so that it is now read as follows: "A forced payment relating to the beneficiary of the budget, which is based on the mandatory payment of the budget account, can be carried out up to 50% of the total amount of funds allocated to that budget user, to the burden of its application, whose execution will be subject to a succession, according to the dynamics of the budget (monthly quotas)." And what it looks like is that the trustee of the state – can also be an ordinary contractual relationship, not only must it be a court ruling establishing the legal state of the right of an individual to a certain state authority – whose finances are run by Mladjan Dinkic, can count on not to collect his claim. That means, gentlemen, 13,000 arrested in the Sabre, which has been found or determined to have no basis, and have the right to compensation for damages, you won't be able to make your claim, even though it's been tried because the restriction is prescribed here. I ask the question of what would happen if, in a business relationship, the relationship was changed, so the state would be a trustee to an enterprise or a physical person, if you were to apply this provision to that analogy, so you could say, it would be forced execution, but selectively - up to 50%, and from 50% - we'd see how we're going to do it. No, it's an emergency charge. I can tell you what his patent was during the Democratic Party. They charged classical bonds based on the lease of a business space by delivering their public company a normal letter to the regional authority of the income administration and blocking the account, removing the funds; later obtaining a tax exemption, and the lease is not tax revenue. I have no reason to doubt that Mr Dinkic will not do any more innovations when it comes to this completely different relationship compared to the one planned here. Why are you putting this on? Then you'll say again you have a surplus. Which is worth having a fictional and virtual surplus, and you have unsettled obligations. It is likely that in the next phase of a change of a regulation, those claims will not be subject to interest until the claim could not be settled for the reason set out in Article 36, the final position. It can't be like this. You are now just confirming that my basic thesis -- Dinkic wants to prove that the state is the best bank and that it is the best economic operator. Why? He's got tax organs that can do whatever he wants. There's a police officer who can do whatever he wants. There is a court that Mladjan Dinkic does not respect, no decision respects. It has a budget, this budget and this Budgetary System Act allow it to negotiate directly, negotiate both with indirect users and with the trust of direct users. A man can do anything. Come on, please, let's break down the entire legal system, to pass only one law on the rights of Mladjan Dinkic with two members. The first member -- as said by Mladjan Dinkic, a second member -- if something is unclear, the first member is applied. Tell me where there's democracy, order, respect for the Constitution. Who's going to enter into a contractual relationship with the state if you wrote this here, that is, installing a systemic inability even forced collection of some undeniable claim. What kind of finance are you running? Here you boast of the surplus, and here you provide provisions that practically mean a ban on execution on direct users' accounts. To keep things even to the end complete, now the vault and the public payment administration are joining up in the vault management and then the story is closed, then there's no state. There's nothing! I have to repeat it more than once, not because of those who don't want to understand it, but because of those who need to notice what kind of authority we got, how you out of the majority created it, and even you who throw it at me, who are supposed to be rebelling, but you always vote for this. You rebelled, so you chose Draskovic as foreign minister. You rebelled against this, here it is, Mladjan Dinkic's funeral. He thinks as soon as you support this government, he can do whatever he wants. Why are you mad at me? It's not my fault. You chose him. He saw that he wasn't stopped here - at the first step when he ran over the Constitution and the law. He's moving on. He's stabilising finances so that no one lives after him will be able to fix the mess they're making. That's to be clear. Maybe it's not clear to you at this point, because you're blinded by the fact that you think you're some kind of power. You are power, my God. You have the congregation majority, you have the ones who support it. To warn you, Nebojsa Covic held a press conference yesterday, so he criticised this surplus. When he starts criticizing, and when he's in power, he runs away from that power, and that power falls. So was the Democratic Party, remember, Nebojsa Covic and Social Democracy at the time. Look what's going on here. He changed his story, you know, it's not the 2001 Nebojsa Covic anymore. Now he's looking a little differently because he's looking at those statistics and percentages and adapting his left-wing story. (President: Please, no interference with the speaker, please, Mr. Krasic, feel free to stick to the subject. Mr. Markovic, don't defend me, it's very interesting, because it seems inspiring and that's how the truth comes out. We should have the controversy here. Why not, that's not the problem. We need to exchange an opinion. This is how I exchange views with MPs who disagree with what I say. They don't have the guts to come out here and say it, but it doesn't matter. So remember what I told you, what's written here, and you don't want to interpret. Remember, who among you is in the congregation next year, in the hallway that he will speak, well, yes, there was a mess. In advance, I warn you, these public finances screw-ups are terrible, dangerous, the consequences are far-reaching. Remember, the consequences are far-reaching. As evidence of this, it is found in the fact that one, relatively good, the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses at the time of Bozidar Djelic has changed. But Bozidar Djelic didn't have the courage to go this far, he only changed because he had no idea of financing, so he listened to some people who understand finance, so he found some dimension as far as he could go. But this one doesn't have that critical grade. He's got his own direction, and he's a wimp. What happens after that, you know. He's retreating, he doesn't care, he says - you've been supporting me, it's your fault that you denied the right to the National Assembly. The government's creditors will be damaged at the beginning and the question arises whether they should at all lead the dispute before a court in order to prove their claim, especially to seek coercion over the state's resources. I wouldn't want to be in the skin of the Republic Public Attorney. What's he gonna wait for on this provision? He doesn't have a proper insight into it. You'll see the consequences. I warn you, in 2003, Serbia-Montenegro was admitted to the Council of Europe, we have an obligation to apply the 1976 Convention. Believe me, who can't collect his claim for this provision and send a play to the European Court of Human Rights, you'll hear what a decision will come from there. Have pity on me! If you don't believe me, trust those institutions where you're flocking to go. Trust these institutions. Consider the views of the European Court of Human Rights and how individual claims are treated. Private property is sacred, nothing can limit it, and that claim is like sacredness, it cannot be limited by such provisions. If someone had put a finger on our forehead, so he imagined something -- come on, now he can do anything; we have most of it, he can do anything. Radoman Bozovic said, "If I have 70 hands in the air, I will declare the country to be gambling." There he is. He can't appear anywhere in public. Keep an eye on yourself, don't spoil your human and political career, so you don't show up anywhere tomorrow because you vote for everything and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17986	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 18 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. For the sake of the professional public and the public, I must even quote the provisions of Article 48, as Article 18, which I have submitted to the amendment, refers to Article 48 of the Budgetary System Act. The member has four positions and is proposed to add the fifth law on amendments and additions. When I quote these four, then I'll tell you what it's about, or what it's proposed to add to this term. "As part of the budget of the planned revenue is not deployed in advance, but is maintained in the name of the current budget reserve. "Station 2: "The funds of the current budget reserve are used for unplanned purposes that have not been implemented, or for purposes for which adhesion has proved to be insufficient during the year. "Station 3: "The government, i.e. the competent executive authorities of the local government, is making a proposal for the minister, or the local authority of the finance authority, a decision on the use of the current budget reserve. "The last position so far in the current law is: "The funds of the current budget reserve are allocated to direct beneficiaries of the budget. "Now, in the amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, it is proposed to add a new position 5, which reads: "Extremely from the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 of this Article, the funds of the current reserves of the Republic budget can also be used to fulfil the commitments of the local authorities due to reduced income." I suggested my amendment to delete this item 5. What am I proposing on behalf of the SRS? For the reason that this position 5 has not defined anything sufficiently, unlike many previous members in this or in another finance law, where it is proposed that the minister in charge of financial affairs will take care of it by his special act or regulation. There's not even a few specifics here. There are no objective criteria where the funds, or local self-government, will be channelled from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We Serbian radicals suspect that these funds could often be directed there, to those local self-governments, where, for example, the presidents of the municipalities were elected from a party to which the minister belongs or perhaps from some other parties who support this assembly majority, and that very rarely those funds would be directed to those municipalities where the presidents are members of the SRS. It is then said and not defined enough when funds from the reserve of the Republic of Serbia's budget can be channelled towards local self-government, i.e. local self-government. It says - due to the reduced volume of income, i.e. budgeting and local self-government. We express our open suspicion, I think a colleague of Radisa Ilic will say that certain funds in the municipality of Paracin were selectively directed towards some populated towns in the municipality, without any criteria, without anything known in advance. It is true that anywhere in Serbia now shows the need, the great need for money to launch economic activities, in order to improve the standard of citizens, but there must be certain criteria there, in order not to question the will of individual owners very often. You remember that the finance minister said that the transferred funds towards local self-government, according to municipalities, would be different by 31 March 2005 than was done on the proposal in the 2005 budget. We're in the second decade of July, since the change, there's no speech. Sometimes a certain number of MPs here loses their sense of reality. It supports something that has no basis, actually it's not, and it's not true. I cannot believe that some MPs from the place where they live as they come to this assembly forget that Serbian citizens, those who have shown us trust, whose interests we represent, how they live, but who get the impression that Serbia is running honey and milk. It won't be like that. You remember that when the minister discussed these two points, when a united debate was being held, he spoke for more than two hours, and one of the former ministers said -- I spoke a little longer, about thirty minutes longer than this time the minister had at his disposal, came to the end of the government very quickly. We are not looking for an end to this government because we do not love the members of that government and the minister, but what is simply a standard for citizens in Serbia is such that they can no longer tolerate this country's leadership and these conditions, this way of working. Then, it was not enough, so a group of MPs, who was from the minister's party, spoke for the first time perhaps seven-eight MPs, supporting it or exactly the same as the minister said. It is likely that the same press service prepared speeches for both the party and the minister himself. Whenever the topic is some financial law or something else where the finance minister here explained it and defended it, when someone comes out, they say -- but they pay off, the citizens get their old foreign savings back, the loan returns to the Serbian rebirth, we get a positive assessment of the feasibility study. I must tell you that today is the 68th day since the positive assessment of the feasibility study was given, Serbian citizens have not felt any better. They don't have much of it. I must finally mention some agricultural cultures of which a large number of Serbian citizens depend and the right to tell you when someone comes out here and mentions the raspberries, he may not have seen it, except in the Assembly here as dessert, I am sick of it the same way as my fellow citizens whose agricultural culture is one of the basic cultures they live from, because they stopped reading it half the season. Someone here was saying that the price of 40 dinars is a small price. Agricultural producers from Azukovica, from Radjevina, from the Adriatic would have had the right price and the right price if someone had these quantities in the evening, which they had during a hard and hard working day, to buy them out and pay them off. Believe that this agricultural culture, which we used to call "red gold", remained half-ready defenseless. Nobody comes any closer, no one goes there. You can't do that, that's where the state was supposed to intervene through state aid. This is what the citizens of Serbia expected during the elections, both as MPs and through the assembly majority, during the government's election. It was expected to take a little more care of the citizens, the standard, the way they live. We should finally get back to it, not keep talking about how we are running honey and milk in Serbia. But believe me, no one can feel it, no one can see it. Although I'm an opposition MP, I really feel a part of responsibility a lot more than you do, because you've lost your sense of reality, which you'll never get up, you'll never bet that government should work a little differently. You spoke at the beginning of the election and of the constitution of this government that it would account for the National Assembly. It's never happened before. I'm not saying it won't, I guess the president of the assembly is going to have a little bit of an impact on the way it is, so they'll put the bill here. You said - and then we'll criticise and change certain ministers. I doubt that, but there's still time to see. I guess one day you'll be expressing a little more sense for those who chose you and for those whose interests you represent here, along with us MPs of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17988	On account of the same amendment, anyone else? MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17989	Article 18. The bill has been added to this new position, but I must say that there is one major error in the implementation of the appraisals, given that the apropriety is the authority which has a certain amount to which the funds can be spent. The government, or executive body of the local government, is said here, however, to think of everything else that goes with the notion of government. This fifth position, which is being upgraded, says that exclusively from the provisions of Articles 1 to 4 of this article, the assets of the current reserves of the Republic budget can be used to implement the budget of the local authorities due to reduced income. As to the receipt, whether the reduced volume of income refers to funds, whether it relates to the original incomes of local self-government, we do not know what it refers to. Is that this member in the title has a current budget reserve. It is in the first positions, therefore, the first and second ones, are prescribed when the funds of the current budget reserve are used. So, for unplanned purposes, for which virtually not that a propriety has not been performed, it is not even a certain appraisal. Something happened in the meantime. It's said here further, or for purposes that in the course of the year show that the appraisals weren't enough. Isn't this contradictory to you with the whole concept, the media concept of surpluses? Current budget reserves are limited to a certain amount, it is known, and these are always the means and all the appropriations are the means, they are prescribed for the purpose where these funds can be spent. Now you say, with local authorities, due to the reduced volume of income, inflows, payments, public revenues, you have to define here and whether it is a reduced volume of income, whether it refers to the charge of the Republic of Serbia's budget or whether it relates to the charge of the local government's budget. In charge of the local government budget, we have two parts: one is own income, and the other is transferred funds. What are we thinking here? This is a formula that covers everything, and even if the current budget reserve can be used to improve the financial position of certain municipalities without us knowing what the reason is. I want to tell you that you can artificially challenge the situation that the local government does not receive the planned funds and that there is a problem with filling its budget and that you are applying some other provisions, or that it is possible to deny some of the municipalities because of the reasons we were just talking about, and especially that of Article 7(3) that you are changing. And this situation is possible where you selectively help certain municipalities, and you can even skip, and even with one broader interpretation, you can skip local authority and help an indirect user at a local level, and you have inserted local communities as indirect users. So you're theoretically able to help every local community without the municipality knowing that you helped it. It's based on your abuse, so this attitude is a wasteland for abuse. You interpret this attitude as a post-festum of the promises of Davinic and Mladjan Dinkic, now that they have visited Leskovac and this area where they have said, there will be 10 million of us, it will be the Government, and the people of the municipality have no idea they were nor have they promised anything. How is it possible to skip the local government? What they promised a few days ago, immediately translated into a legal standard, and you will see how the budget funds will go, so the current budget reserves, especially for three or four months ahead of the upcoming elections, and of course everything in accordance with the regulations, can all be intended spending of funds under the authority. Let me remind you, in 2001, Mladjan Dinkic was a member of the Commission for the determination of extraprofits. Mladjan Dinkic encouraged a budget inspection at the time, and you know it well who you are in the Ministry of Finance, what these budgetary inspectors had to do and under which they had to sign everything. Let me just point out that what was then by some estimates non-intentional, if you apply that archin at a time when Bozidar Djelic was the finance minister, and especially today, then these two, I mean Djelic and Dinkic, they could go on 17 life sentences to go for purposeless budget spending. I'm just telling you what logic is and what rule was applied in 2001 and 2002 to prosecute political opponents. If that archaic applies, then I'm telling you that these two complete last governments can go to jail. But no, Mladjan Dinkic has now seen that something is very wrong, so let's do a little bit if he can skip the local government, because it's not supposed to be his government, and he has a need to improve the electoral base, now he's going through the current budget reserves to challenge the situation and that even indirect users are being instructed by the funds that local authorities don't even know. It's a chaos of the budget system.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17990	Member of the 20th Amendment was submitted by National MP Pai Momchilov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17991	Article 50 shall be amended as follows: The budget system law, in a similar way as those provisions on direct quotas have changed, has also been extended to indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources. This Article of the 50th refers to the responsibility of the officials of the direct beneficiaries of the budget. So the title still stands only - direct, but in heading 1, 2 and 3 next to the direct user's function, they are inserted, i.e. - and the indirect user. There's the principle of shared responsibility. What is all this based on? If the principle is accepted that, through a direct beneficiary of budgets, indirect users make funds and that a manager, a direct beneficiary of budgets has an obligation under some material regulation in terms of supervision, control, etc., but also has an obligation in terms of financial regulations to control and monitor work, if any, organisation. And that's where I have to say that then the state in the governing bodies has its own representatives through which it also achieves not only control and control, but also manages so-called. to indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, then this insertion of the responsibilities of the indirect beneficiary of the budget is nothing more than a divergence of the responsibility issue, not a strengthening of the responsibility issue, but a divergence. In this way, the finance minister skips all ministries that have any relationship with the indirect beneficiary of budget funds, and he imposes himself as the person who cheers and dresses. This authority doesn't have a Prime Minister, and I need to remind you. He only has some political one, and the question is because of this composition, and these political ones are quite tight, but here in law enforcement, that is, regulations relating to funds, which are the most important regulations, because people say -- how much money and music, who has the right to pay, and to control. Those powers were seized by the finance minister. The finance minister becomes the person who literally flushes the water. It depends on whether or not the water will be, it depends on who gets the criminal report, when, how many criminal charges, there may be an open discrepancy between some ministry that has some competences relative to the indirect beneficiary of budgets and that it sets out a completely different opinion. It is important that the finance minister thinks because he has gained absolute control and absolute power through these amendments to the Budgetary System Act. There is no state in its structure that has such regulations that one man, one individual, gives such unlimited authority. This government doesn't even have a monarch, that's what I have to tell you. Everything's under his control. To get you back to the one from the beginning: when the problem is between the law and Dinkic, Dinkic won. When the problem is between the court and Dinkic, Dinkic won. When the problem between the direct and indirect user of the funds is the judge is Dinkic. When the problem is between the prime minister and abroad, the judge is Dinkic. You're voting for it. I understand these G17 plus, they think it's the right thing to do and it's democratic, and as the happy one says -- someone's against order, G17 plus introduces order. What order are you instituting? Introduce the lottery line, for this scratch, not long ago for fuel. What order are you instituting? Everyone in line at Mladjan Dinkic's. That's what you're introducing. You pushed him out first, he's an alpha and an omega of power, he's an alpha and an omega of this government, everything is under his control. It can't. What happens after this young man Dinkic comes someone who is much more dangerous and who has much more defiant personal proclivities? Another man with these powers would mean life and death in some territories. We don't have the authority to give the individual those powers. Our Constitution does not know such an individual as you make this law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act. People, you don't understand, the finance minister runs the National Assembly. If nothing else, he changes the quota for the National Assembly. It's all about Mladjana Dinkic, not the government. There we made a mistake to this law, so we said that the National Assembly is in office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. No, the National Assembly and the Government are in office of Mladjan Dinkic and, of course, the interesting lobby that stands before or behind him. It is known that the participants of this organised society are those who are well in Serbia. It is a small number of them, but they encourage this, they support this and the National Assembly, that is, most accept it. That's the problem, the National Assembly accepts. It's not a problem in Mladjan Dinkic. The problem is in the congregation, which has lost its critical attitude toward the standards that are built into these regulations. What could be the coalition agreement for one man, second or third person in his party, to be the first person in the country?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17992	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanović. The proposer's representative and the Finance Committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17993	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 24. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. I suggested that Article 24 be deleted for the reason that the Treasury Administration is listed here, and we clearly know that we are against the excess institutions and the accumulation of the administration. What I'm saying is that the Treasury Department is getting more authority than ever, which is the very name of the vault that performed those certain functions. It extends the post of deputy directors next to the director and gives far greater authority. Practically from the administration, one service, you create an institution and thus accumulate and employ your coalition partners, your fellow party partners. Why are we against the administration? It says the very fact, if we've read the draft budget for 2005, you can see here that, say, the Forest Administration, which is being held by gentlemen from G17 plus, they've singled out 19 billion for management. If they asked where the money was spent, I don't think we'd get an answer. Also, the Environmental Protection Administration has also separated 714 million, and besides that administration, when it comes to ecology, and I am from a municipality that is also an ecologically polluted environment, next to Lazarets, there is Pančevo, Bor and all of us MPs coming from those environments, simply none of us can say that it has been done and that in terms of environmentalism. In practice, nothing has been working on this plan for years, and here, besides the Environment Protection Authority, we have an agency, we have a ministry, we also have a fund, a total of 12 billion has been set aside for ecology, and virtually nothing has been done in any municipality in Serbia. They have been laundering money for many years by just doing projects and showing it as spent money for all kinds of trips, some of their meetings and ending up in the right sense, and practically in order to protect the environment so far no one has done anything, at least we MPs of the SRS have not heard that something has been done. Then, here you suggest that the administration collects compensation for services performed by public fees and also the amount of compensation on a proposal from the Minister is determined by the Government, which means that you are giving the Minister too much authority again, so that he can decide for himself on the funds and the fees. The same Minister Dinkic, including Parliament Speaker Mr Markovic, some of our southerners, have nothing against that area, have set the fat money aside for their seats. It's nice and humane on their part, they were born in these villages, so they normally invest a little bit, but still for the sake of the public, Mr. Radisa Ilic, a colleague from the SRS, knows exactly what amount these budget cuts are in. So we'll hear it later, too. When talking about the budget surplus, it should be stressed that the funds should be allocated for the lending of small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm going to set an example in my community, that 90% of the funds are not spent properly, because usually these businessmen who are looking for loans normally have a business plan and normally have some kind of program to employ workers. However, in my municipality 90% of the funds went to the unknown, which means they failed to meet the conditions, there was no employment, there was no factory building, and therefore the money was spent. I think that in that direction, you gentlemen who are in power should think that there are still some conditions, so when a credit user needs to take credit, what needs to be fulfilled, so in the future, you should think about it. Also, it should be noted that a large part of the funds, in fact, all the funds in the surplus, you speak with audiblely about it, should be said that they are from privatisation and VAT, where you simply kidnapped from the people, at customs, then to these small producers, you also kidnapped the buyers and the sellers, and that it would be an honest privatisation of five, so maybe 10 times the surplus would be bigger than you show. tycunisation in Serbia is known to continue to dominate. We know we have inflation 9%, you said it would be 9%, but, gentlemen, by the end of the year, an inflation of 13-15% is expected, it can be up to 20%. Therefore, we are asking the SRS MPs, we have almost 800m euros in loans from the German financial organisation KFW and the Government of Poland, and that money has already been spent, there is no telling where, there is no telling what. You didn't do anything in Elektroprivreda, and that's the only thing we took those loans for. So, spent money, now it just formally takes this majority to vote and to sort of cover it, and it's already known how. The previous government, in co-operation with the present one, has continued its continuity. On your privatization and on all your business so far, the Cosa Nostra can envy you. We have repeatedly said that it is necessary to bring about a strategy for the development of national economy. We had on the news yesterday that you've already had an important gathering under that plan. I hope it's not just a dead letter on paper, it's not just a parole, it's not gonna be a real thing to do in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17994	Following the same amendment, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17995	It's about Article 24. The draft law on amendments and additions, where the Public Payments Administration and the Treasury are joined by the Treasury Administration. That's that SDK G17 plus. It's about 1,100 workers who will serve this service and probably another 200 from the Treasury that is headed to the finance ministry as a sector. Well, 1,100, according to budget data, works at the Public Payments Authority. When it merges and deploys across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it is that SDK, narrowed down to you, but with far greater powers than SDK had, as the SDK opened the jury accounts in one period, paid you and controlled the final accounts for a period of time, etc. However, since you have defined yourself, I would just ask a question, if you do not accept this amendment, someone would have to explain this chapter to the public, which is covered by the new Article 73, where the Treasury Administration is doing business, and in this context it is divided into some groups. The first group of jobs is a financial planning covering "projections and monitoring flows into the system of a consolidated vault account and on the account of the vault (What is this second account for you? ) Republics and requirements for implementation of expenditure". You're confused, you're missing a word, I think the word is "consolidated." Furthermore, the public needs to know that this new vault management will have in the context of a group of jobs below the point: "8) the processing of personal incomes of employees, which includes: (1) the processing of earnings, wages and other personal incomes of employees". What employees? Who work in the Republic's organs? If you're thinking about them, then you should say "employees who get paid out of the budget." I don't know why the vault management would be ERC. There is a common service of all organs, there are within the Ministry of People who work on salaries. I don't know why you're uniting your wages now. Further: "(2) maintenance and storage of employee databases and personal incomes". That's what every employer leads to. Now the finance ministry will also be an employer to all employees in the Republic of Serbia who work in the state service. He says, "Following the process of restructuring public enterprises, in accordance with an agreement concluded with international financial institutions." What's this other department doing? What's the Department of Economy doing, what's the Ministry of Energy doing? They are closely monitoring some of the public enterprises that are being restructured. Let's put those ministries out, 'cause we have the Treasury Authority that's doing all this. He goes on to say, "Procuring guidelines for the development of a business plan." The Treasury Administration gives guidance for the business plan! Who? The enterprises that are being restructured? What do you need that bug for? He killed himself by explaining -- new laws, the state takes action for what was not restructured. What do you need him for, when you have a vault management, you have a government over the government? It further says, the analysis of quarterly reports, the monitoring of profit mass movements, the drafting of reports for the needs of the Commission responsible for restructuring, recording and monitoring of state aid. What are you guys doing? You've all got it here, that it's becoming a special super-organization. Remember, just because of the secret accounts and the sub-accounts, no one in their right mind would involve such a large number of powers. Only an irresponsible person is fighting for these powers because it thus covers all shortcomings and excludes its responsibility. In the sea of authority, in the sea of obligations, everything is under the control of the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, in the context of this, you say, defining the three-month and monthly quotas of commitments and payments. The minister sets out the criteria for the determination of quotas, as I see it. You haven't changed that in the Budgetary System Act. Doesn't it seem to you that something had to change when you united the Treasury and the Public Payments Authority. It would be quite logical to change the question of who is notifying the quotas of the beneficiaries of the budget. Didn't it make sense to you, when you put together the Public Payments Authority and the Republic Treasury to then squish the local government vault? What's your system? That's where you left the local authorities' vault, to have five-six of them run some budget accounting, but still keep it under control, through the vault administration, in that part of that power that the Public Payments Authority now has. This goes beyond all expectations. Just to warn you, by any chance someone did this in 1992, 1993, 1999. In 2000, this country would probably be bombed by this kind of power and this kind of government that concentrates in the hands of the finance minister. Local authorities would walk in Belgrade and the one who boasts that he was blowing in a whistle would probably be blowing in a whistle today. When you do it, it's democratic. Take care when you define something that is democratic not to exaggerate, because in the event of a change of government, what you claim is democratic, it will remain democratic and for someone who comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17996	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17997	On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 25. The bill, which provides for the removal of this article. The bill's proposal cited a lot of reasons for adopting this law, and, among other things, said the aim is to create a single and comprehensive budget system, especially when it comes to the content, preparation, planning, adoption and control of the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as the budgets of local authorities. One of the basic objectives, according to the draft law, is to create a budgetary system and achieve its macroeconomic stability. From a macroeconomic aspect lately, it is not something that has been known that this word and this term often appear in the framework of the authorities and their helpers, NGOs. I am familiar with the case of defence of Boris Tadic's departure to Srebrenica, since it is allegedly his macroeconomic apology, and unlike the microeconomic apology he was supposed to make by going to Bratunac, going to Skelane and Srebrenica, to apologize and to bow down to the victims and families of Serb victims in these places. Public consumption participates in the total social product with 60%. It's also alarming for economists when public spending came and crossed a 50% figure. It was very problematic and the economists grabbed their heads. It is 60% now, and the finance minister and the group of people in a special interest financial organisation sits still and praises the government of Serbia and the finance ministry's measures, and adopts a special law, and it is about amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, which they planned to introduce a new state body, a new institution, which is the Treasury Authority. In Article 73 of the basic text of the Law, the word "deposit" is changed to "Government of the Treasury", with the subtitle of the office and responsibility of the vault. Given that I asked in my amendment in front of the SRS for him to be deleted, this subtitle should have more words of authority, and above all the authority of the vault administration. According to Article 20, i.e. the 73rd Act, on three pages, on the authority of the Treasury Administration, it would rather be talked about what the Treasury Administration should do, which are its powers, rather than its responsibilities and duties. Of course, someone can say, when he has a certain institution, including an individual of authority, he is responsible and responsible for a certain action on the conduct of certain state affairs. The Treasury Administration, among other things, according to this member I asked to delete, perform the following tasks, manages the cash assets of the Republic, which includes the opening and control of bank accounts and sub-accounts, the management of banking relations. We are well aware that Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, along with several of his associates, has in fact shut down several capital and unproven non-equivocal banks: Investbanke, Beobanke, Jugobanke. Until today, there is no justification for such a move to shut down these for our country of capital banks that have been liquidated. Of course, 8,000 workers in these banks are out of work. Financial management, debt management, that's all the powers of the vault management. International donations and other types of aid, the allocation of paid public revenues to the corresponding sub-accounts of different levels of government in accordance with the law, and this is about the Republic government and local government, which means that the Treasury Administration under the control of people from G17 plus will manage funds and local authorities in accounts and sub-accounts. The management of sub-accounts of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budgetary resources of the Republic and local authorities which the beneficiary of funds, organisations, compulsory social security and which are included in the consolidated account system of the vault, etc. and keeping other accounts, carrying out cash payments to direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budgetary resources of the Republic and local authorities. There's a lot that the Treasury Administration is authorized to do, and it's not an accident. It is no coincidence that everyone in the current republican government will focus financial flows on the people of G17 plus, and they are few that they opened a private National Savings Bank, the foreign reserves of the National Bank of Yugoslavia at that time, and later, through the Euroaxis Bank, the National Savings Bank, and control the savings facility through Vojin Lazarevic, Vuk Hamovic, Miodrag Kostic-Kolet and others. That's not enough for them, and they want to open up with this bill another one of their own banks under the control of their own people, or the Treasury, and all that about the state's cost. It is known that the government has certain levers of government. The levers are finance, and are controlled by G17 plus Mladjan Dinkic, armed forces, and we rely only on the police now, because the United States through people and now through Prvoslav Davinic, the army is destroying. Of course, with the help of Vuk Draskovic, who unanimously signed an agreement on the crossing of NATO forces into Serbia-Montenegro's territory, and this will apply criminal and legal immunity to them because they will not be responsible for anything done. Just to remind you, they committed some 140 traffic offences with their presence in Macedonia, where 14 people died, and among them a minister in Macedonia. Of course, none of them answered. A number of crimes have been committed, and Vuk Draskovic, for certain reasons or warrants, because of fears from The Hague, has been coldly signing an agreement for NATO forces to freely pass through Serbia-Montenegro's territory and to go in all directions as they please. In the end, media are already beginning to force certain parties, which they count on to have a majority in the Assembly in the next term. Gentlemen Members of the People, it is not difficult to guess which parties are: DSS, DSS, and the PSS has been observed, and there is little G17 plus, and perhaps your coalition partners have written you out of G17 plus. Control exports and imports of electricity via the EFT and "Interface", i.e. Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. Dragan Djilas, called National Office Director of the Republic of Boris Tadic, and he controls the advertising and advertising of public state-owned enterprises through the media in Serbia, has a monopoly over it, and through his private firms takes a large amount of state funds. G17 plus controls all financial flows. The topic is enough not only in the bill, but see if you can read what is provided for in Article 73 in half an hour. The bill I've submitted to the amendment will give you a headache of all the powers you've given or which you're giving to the Treasury Authority. Not gentlemen, in the end, it is by chance that the entire financial system and monetary policy are in the hands of a number of people, I do not say the entire interested financial organization G17 plus or as some evildoers say the encrypted parties. It's not an accident, because there are certain dark forces in the world that have left tentacles in Serbia, and these dark forces have a name, it's a sect -- Scientology, which wants to control all financial flows and monetary policy, everywhere, in all countries, where they have influence. Now they have a direct impact on our financial system through the Deputy Prime Minister and President G17 plus, Miroljub Labus. Finally, gentlemen of the People's MPs, all of this is done by people from the Serbian government, the executive government, everything Mladjan Dinkic, Miroljub Labus and many people, related to the existence of elements of criminal acts -- exports, imports of electricity, damage done by the state of Vuk Hamovic, Vojin Lazarevic, they do so, and others, who have levers of power in their hands, do nothing. The one most responsible for what is happening to us in Serbia is, of course, Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17998	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u17999	Article 26 The draft law Government changes the title above Article 73 of the basic text of the Law, that is to say to delete it; so Chapter VIIIa, the Public Payments Administration is deleted and there remains something that goes on, that is Article 27. The bill, where Article 73a is changed. He says, "In order to carry out the tasks of the Public Payments Authority (now the "public payments" are deleted, the word "regular" is inserted) and organisational units are educated. "It will be organisational units in places, municipalities and cities. He says: "The way of education, number, structure, network and part-round of organisational units in the position of the 1st member is governed by the act of the minister, on the proposal of the Director of the Treasury Administration. "It all makes one whole, meaning the title that is changed by one member of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements and this. The Public Payments Authority has become a reason to unite the vault and build the SDK. She has her own organization, her director. I have one more thing to tell you -- the SDK used to be quite an independent organization. She had contacts with the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and other banks, but they were precisely defined domains and co-operation and that contact. Here, in practice, management is formed as a sector of the finance ministry. This vault administration becomes an organisational unit, regardless of its own organisational form of administration, it is essentially one sector of the finance ministry. You will see later, at the proposal of the minister, the director of that administration elects the government; so, no competition, the younger one decides who he will place there. I don't believe there are provisions on the conditions that need to be met, probably the only condition is that he's a member of G17 plus. It's a dangerous thing to do in a country. You have two completely different approaches. When it comes to some areas, you simply rebel, form agencies as independent bodies, some times as administrative organisations, and sometimes as independent regulatory bodies. You say - it's a process of decentralisation, of deetatisation, of getting some jobs, of not being business of the state administration, but, if it's about professional affairs, it's about forming administrative organisations, which you get names on, above all, agencies, although in the nomenclature of these names can stand both the office and the directorate. When it comes to finance, you go to concentration and centralization. It's all under the control of the Ministry of Finance. First, it's not natural. It is impossible for one ministry to get such a large number of powers and such a large number of services. You'll be released from that euphoria, to tell you the truth. He will make every mistake that comes after you, if he doesn't leave this law for at least a year so that you can feel it, in your coat of arms, as Mladjan Dinkic applies the rules. Remember, it'll be inevitable. You, who are in the front row, have not yet felt the sweetness of the last bench. Remember what I told you. It's all coming back. It is, and it's paid. [[Invader from the O.R.: And it's paid.]] Tap a little bit, people. Serbia's history of Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus did not begin. It's not! Turn around in time and space. Someone's been lying to you so hard about it - go ahead, push. And people abroad wonder what's going on here, people who are professionally following public finances. Here, they give lectures, they prepare people, they need some licenses to get them, etc. You think someone's behind this. No one supports this. Find an article for the last ten days in the paper to be supported by some expert on these innovations by Mladjan Dinkic. No one gives support, expresses wonder, dissatisfaction. You've been reading the paper all day, I guess you've read that section. You get the money, I like you to throw it at me, because the public watching the broadcast is against you. Remember, every time you throw, the public is against you. The public knows what your structure is and why there's a urge to push this through the way you imagined it. I know you can't hold it anymore. You know that's not good. You know this leads to nowhere, too. But it comes from you. That's the problem. I succeeded today, the public saw that the parliamentary majority is aware of all these failures and deliberately pushes this through, and this ends with Mladjan Dinkic being the super prime minister. So, besides the uninformed prime minister, we've also got a super prime minister who can control everything. He wants to control everything, everything will be under his control -- and local government, payment to local authorities, local communities where presidents and vice presidents and prominent G17 Plus members are born; local authorities will skip, etc. Remember, from the local government, the moment you start with a more serious criticism of G17 plus, the management vault spins the tap, you'll see, as these days, or these months, it passes with Surcin and some other allegedly problematic municipalities, where there may be a dispute over the legitimacy of the government, but there is no dispute over the bill and there is no dispute over people working in the municipality, employees, to receive the salary. There's no dispute there. People work, they have to take the pay. They can't be denied pay due to the problem of legitimacy. Who do they sue? To sue their employer, the local government? I can't. Why? And they didn't get it from the City Hall either. I took this as an example, without the intention of challenging the replica and of proving who is legitimate and who is not legitimate. Remember, this is a bad move, this is bad. Remember, I repeat the fourth time today and the fifth time for some who don't listen. You'll be very surprised when you identify a large number of secret accounts that will be hidden through the Treasury. Remember, the anxiety started the moment the four billion dollars from Cyprus opened up. I remind you that this is a topic and that it includes even what Velimir Ilic, Vladan Batic and many others found in Cyprus, and he found it first and lost Mladjan Dinkic. Remember, privatisation is paid. Remember that those who bought state actions through the Action Fund, which is why the Securities Commission died, did not pay off the funds, and we do not have a report from the finance minister what the financial situation is. As soon as this kind of authority is grouped, it means that there is something illegal and some crime at work. I'm telling you in advance, I'm informing you, I have a lot of grounds to doubt that this is the way to hide and encourage financial crime in this country. Remember, what I told you, because after a few months, you'll shut up when you find out the painful truth of what you believed to Mladjan Dinkic and Miroljub Labus. Remember, there are no more uninformed in this country. If he may not have been notified by means of public information, then he feels it every month when he comes to receive his salary or when he shows up at his firm and sees it's closed. And then he looks on the other side that someone who, up to 10 years ago, had no dogs to bite for, is now bright and dressing, some Hamovic, some Lazarevic, some National Savings. You've opened a lot of topics, and you haven't closed any of them to the end. The first one you opened, and you did not close, is Bogoljub Karic. Consider who represents the state in arbitration over Brača Karic, i.e. Mobtel. Establish and see who he represents. Remember what I told you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18000	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 27. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. Namely, article 27 is to be deleted. The explanation I will now present before the National Assembly is as follows: the SRS opposes the establishment of the Treasury Administration. Just now, my colleague Krasic explained in his previous statement all the contradictions of this proposal on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, and I listened carefully to speakers of the ruling coalition who defended this amendment and the addition of the Law, so one of them here told the speaker about the employment of 7,000 workers, etc. First of all, the ruling majority, which will not last long until the next election to be called soon, has no support for Serbian citizens. There is no reason because in the past two years, as many governments as the state, it has brought Serbian citizens into a very difficult position. The citizens of Serbia are not only hungry and hard to live on, but it will be even harder if you continue to pass laws like this proposal on amendments to the Budgetary System Act, not thinking about improving the standard of Serbian citizens and that MPs of the ruling coalition are telling the demagogue story that one day, in 2099, Serbian citizens will be better off. What is essential is that you are in power, because the citizens of Serbia, above all, expected from you when they gave you the votes to get the country out of this economic crisis, out of the social misery it is in today, and you have brought Serbian citizens into a much more difficult and unfavourable situation. So, there's no story about how Serbian citizens will live better because we got a positive feasibility study, how you talk about your ruling coalition's praises for this speaker. I have no intention of calling any ruling party whose MPs for this speaker tell a demagogue story about how everything in the country is better than when you are in power, and Serbian citizens are enough to get out of their homes and life is completely different. The essence of your bill is always, above all, that they are confusingly conceived. In this case, when I talk about the Ministry of Finance and the Minister who runs the Ministry, in the way you are proposing now – you will probably also adopt this proposal on amendments to the Law on the Budgetary System, because you have some majority that will not last for long, in the next election most of your parties will be political past – all power to concentrate in the hands of one minister is not good for any government, and of course for this one, which works disastrously for the citizens of Serbia. So, the budget story, that a surplus has been achieved, and when you brought and voted the 2005 budget, a restrictive budget was adopted, which could also be seen from what the SRS MPs said as representatives of Serbian citizens, because citizens voted largely for Serbian radicals, and we represent a single voting body that certainly has a majority in Serbia at the moment. We must speak for this speaker everything that the disastrous actions of the government, primarily the ruling coalition, led by the DSS and Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, who allowed themselves to have a small party take over this much of its power and control the entire monetary system. So, to give it into the hands of one Young Dinkic, here are the results that are today. The VAT story, so you have now reduced the VAT in some parts to 8%, the introduction of fiscal cash registers, etc., all talks about authorities that do not care about the citizens of Serbia and the situation in the country. The bottom line of your government is that everything you've done is mainly to the detriment of Serbian citizens. That is why Serbian citizens will punish you in the next elections, so that half of you will not be parliamentary parties, and the SRS will have to and will be the main task of correcting all these devastating moves that you have made over the past two years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18002	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vitomir Plužarevic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to a member of the budget system law and this amendment to Article 28 reads, "Article 28 is deleted." The SRS opposes the establishment of the Treasury Administration and all such similar institutions that do not aim to improve the economic situation of the people and the state, but rather to increase the personal, party and private appetites of today's Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic. These experts led by Dinkic slowly but surely translate Serbia into a private company G17 plus, and this company will be the private vault administration. This vault management needs a group that proposes to make the latest preparations to put all financial flows under their control and make the financial system available to them alone, and that they have and manage it. I am surprised that the other members who support this coalition can easily cross over. We don't know how many existing vaults there are today, and we're looking for an answer to that. If that's five-six, you don't know it today, and what's only going to happen when this vault administration is formed, it's very suspicious, and we're fighting it with all possible means. And one kind of fight against this is this amendment of mine, which I want article 28 deleted from this law. We also want the entire law to be deleted, that is to say, so that it does not come into force. Probably this administration is tasked with creating a state bank to be run by Mladjan Dinkic, and you all know what he did and what methods he used to destroy our banking, with praises that he did it the best way. It's not like that. We know that he has brought banks that do not have capital invested in Serbia, but are already our assets that are moving from one bank to another, and are so fictitiously representing some financial system. And when it's all put in front of us and our citizens, there's always Mladjan Dinkic and his buddies. This administration is probably a merger of former SDKs and banks, and we know that this SDK in its time worked at a high level and that financial information could be obtained daily, at the right time and in the right place, but it was not good after experts assessed it that way. SDK's been shut down. The local self-government related to changes and additions to this law on the budgetary system is silent because these solutions allow the organisation of this group of G17 plus some percentage more in some local environments. But they won't be able to handle it, since we see that this government and this expert team won't be able to function much longer. There'll probably be room for secret accounts in this vault administration. Imagine, gentlemen, what they can do to subdue these secret accounts, when today they are clearly undermining all of this country's budgets and commenting on them in a unique way, suggesting and allegedly taking care of them. We believe that all this previous business is leading to this bank, which will take care of budget spending and through this new bank, it will all end. The finance ministry achieves its agreements in a variety of ways, and part of the economy is forced to create losses and sets up a vault management for this microcrisical variant. The coalition partners are silent and accepting this trachea. We, as the SRS, point to all these failures. We draw attention to the Treasury Administration cancels: the Public Debt Administration and all the administrations and agencies that are only masks and represent some continuation of the former SDK. The G17 plus is closed and closing all finances and they're now controlling everything that's related to it. This is what I'm saying to the people, that the people know what you're doing, and most of all the people judge you as harraquists and as villains who are only passing through here. This is also seen in this fictional surplus, reportedly such a surplus of the budget was not in Serbia, imagine, for 60 years and now these experts are being raised with it, it is only a miracle that economic experts will only be able to give their own court in the coming period. The various countries that have such a surplus in their budgets are mentioned, and we can now make a romantic picture of Serbia where everything is beautiful, in which it is played and sung, and with this song, it reaches up to 32 billion surpluses. It's her story that both the government and the minister have some of their own lotto. The budget deficit is covered by revenues from privatisation. He should be careful here until the end. When we're out of production, there's no hope for a better tomorrow. Everything's connected to that concept of new production. Since you've destroyed everything that's been called old production, not knowing whether it's good or not, all you're doing is tampering banks, insurance companies, agencies, various administrations, and who knows what and everything where money is collected and kept. There are reportedly experts, but also those banks that came, which Dinkic promoted, they are nowhere near the European banks. And why didn't they? The answer is: Interests are an indicator, and they see and know our citizens. Do not lie to them about housing loans and many other improvements when there is nothing. You've heard that this world, which allegedly supports you, won't even hear pensioners funding from budgets that are being promoted by their donations, that's the same thing they're saying. You pushed the peasant pensioners into the neighborhood because you wanted to pay off their pensions in five years. It's a order of 22 billion, how much you owe them, and they feed you, because their products are daily on your tables. By the people who gave you bread, you gave him five years of hope. You've led the companies to the state of bonsai, neither alive nor dying. Why would you now be giving grain subsidies when that grain has allowed you to have this 32 billion dinar surplus of yours? As an SRS, we believe this law should not have gone into this same budget-rebalance package. First these system changes, then in turn, that is, after the legal deadline, you can comment on and change the budget. With this law, Minister Dinkic gets such powers that he can do whatever he wants and that's why he doesn't answer to anyone. If it destroys the state and the state's finances, no one will be responsible (Article 7). They probably pulled this out of the context of the NATO Alliance, as their soldiers can kill whom they have committed and therefore are not responsible to the international community, so the finance minister is protected by this law. But it's fortunate that it's just his wish, because he won't be proposing such crazy laws for much longer, and you who follow it just smile and approve it in your own way. You have good gestures that can be interpreted twice afterwards, depending on when you use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18004	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 28th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The proposer and the Finance Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by MP Mit Avramov. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word of the people is the messenger of Mit Abraham.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18005	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be surprised if they had accepted this amendment of mine, not only this amendment, but any amendment of the SRS. We have previously warned amendments to all the laws that have been passed here and no one has heard from the ruling parties to respect any amendment and to allow the people to live more easily tomorrow than they have always endured in their laws and pushed them to the end, although it has been seen that it is not exactly how they imagined it. Remember when we brought VAT, when we also told our amendments that it wasn't good, that it couldn't be taxed so that people had a hard time living, that people had to help the people, that people voted for all of us here, that we could help the people to live better tomorrow and not put even more burden on their backs. That's what happened, because we voted on Friday just to cut VAT to special items, where everything was put in what was necessary for every nation's lives. I have submitted an amendment to Article 29 requesting that the member be deleted. The SRS is against the establishment of the Treasury Administration. That's what all my predecessors used to say about the vault. There are many members for the Treasury, and the Ministry of Finance in that Article 29, which they have submitted, has ordered that Article 73v, Article 73d, Article 73a, and many more paragraphs from other members associated with Article 73 be deleted. This article 73v is the most important. Why? Article 73v states that the Public Payments Administration shall keep records and carry out transactions under the consolidated account system of the vault, under 1) the register of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic’s budget, i.e. local authorities and organisations of compulsory social security; 2) the public account accounts, as the areaal systems of the consolidated accounts of the Republic’s vault; 3) it allocates the payment of public revenue to relevant sectoral different levels of government, in accordance with the law; 4) the accounts of the public incomes, as the sub-accounts of the Republic’s budget accounts, i.e. local authorities and indirect social security agents, which are included in the consolidated account system of the Treasury; 5) the other accounts in accordance with the law and other regulations; 6) receive, controlling and processing of the accounts of the accounts of the Republic, i.e. i.e. i. e. the accounts of the central property and social security entities, i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. e. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i. i It's all got to be erased. Why does that have to be erased? The following Article 73g already states that the minister prescribes the conditions and way of opening and removing the sub-account of the vault, the plan of these sub-accounts, the way and procedure of carrying out payment traffic within the consolidated vault account, as well as the way and procedure of carrying out internal control of payment traffic in the context of the consolidated vault account, as well as other issues of importance for the functioning of the vault. So, for all of this that isn't covered, there's a minister's jurisdiction, and that means that a lot of other people will be out of work, that a lot of other people will be on the street, and our economy will still be limping. I don't know where the strength and courage of a minister who spoke in his exhibition for two hours, boasted about what he did, how far we've made progress this year, and the citizens and people of this Serbia know it best and feel it best. The seminars will be reintroduced, seminars have already been established from Palic to Vrnjačka Banja, to Kopalnik, etc., to interpret this new law, to get people dressed to know how to do their job. They are doing it for one reason, because the minister, having his hands free, will hire those of his contemporaries, people from his party, to attract as many citizens as possible, so that they can achieve censorship in the next election. The minister spoke here, boasted of the Batrovci border crossing. It is in the municipality of Shid from which I come, how they will expand that transition, how four lanes will be made for freight vehicles, how there will be 12 more lanes for all other vehicles, etc. This is not done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. That's what the European Community does. The tender was called. Twenty countries competed in that tender, and the job got, I don't know if you'll believe me, but it can be checked, Mr. Dodik of Republika Srpska. He's doing this job at the Batrovci border crossing, with his firm, I don't know exactly what his name is. The Shid-Tovarnik border crossing and the next five crossing points on the territory of the Shid municipality look like the Middle Ages. There the local self-government took the initiative to bring this border crossing of the Shid-Tovarnik to one envied level, even though we are the only municipality, we have advocated all the forces and all the strength, some of the sponsors, some of the municipalities, to bring electricity to that border crossing, which was not there, water and phone. Imagine how that border crossing works. All the events that took place at the border crossings regarding the smuggling of these birds, for which you have read, drug smuggling, etc., all of them could have gone through at night when there is no adequate electricity, when you cannot adequately examine that vehicle that passes to the other side, and then the other side gets caught, and ours there are being punished for not doing their job well, and they don't have the basic conditions to do their job properly. This is what the minister imagined by the system of fiscalization and electronics. I don't think it's gonna take that many people, he's gonna fire a few thousand more people when this law is passed. He's wrong. He's wrong. Someone and that electronics has to control it. Who's gonna control her? Well, the man will control it, the man made it. So much for me. As for these amendments, I think you should listen to this right-hand side of the congregation room. I know you don't like it when we say SRS, but unfortunately, we point to all your failures and all your anomalies, but you have no hearing and no desire to improve anything in the interests of the people, not in our interest. You don't even have to say it was an amendment to the SRS, but, well, you can just say, we adopted that amendment and that amendment. Just to make it better for our people tomorrow, because the people chose us to sit here and work in the interest of that same people, not to be his stepmother, like this government now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18006	National MP Momir Markovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18007	Mr. Chairman, two hundred or three words and I'll be done. I hope to fit in at this hour. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the people's wisdom says, "When a dog bites you, it's not the dog's fault, boss." Therefore, Serbian citizens must know that for all this that is happening for finance, related to other ministries, the main culprit is the DSS and its president, Vojislav Kostunica, because they are the headquarters around which the coalition is being held. What SRS MP Mr. Mita Avramov said, Dodik won the tender. All the tenders, all the concessions, all the public payments, everything where more of them participates, it's not who gives what terms, but what kind of offers, who gives more. That's what the sparrows on the branch in Serbia know. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when you look at Article 73v, which is completely deleted, when you look at Article 73, which the vault is prescribed to do business, you will see that all the responsibility of the vault pushes away from itself, and all the possibilities of money control retains itself. Article 73v is deleted as a whole. Mr. Avramov read it. The vault will not keep records and perform operations under the consolidated account system. The vault won't run a register of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, because it's a job, and the income is gone, I mean, there's no attribution. He won't run public income accounts as sub-accounts of a consolidated account system. (President: Time. ) It will not allocate the paid public revenues to the corresponding sub-accounts, nor will it sub-accounts of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budgets to lead. He won't be running other accounts under the law. (President: Time. I say, two hundred or three more words, and I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many amendments I'm going to report for, along with you, to elaborate and this member, so we're not wasting Mr. President's time. Still, as far as I can tell, it's the most important thing right now. It doesn't matter that the people are hungry, it doesn't matter that the raspberries are 15 dinars, it doesn't matter what grain is 6 dinars, it's important that we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18008	Time is money. Business time, that's the time we're talking about. Here you go, Mr. Smiljanic, for the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18009	Using the opportunity to talk about this amendment, first of all, I would like to ask the President of the Assembly: do we MPs, if we announce ourselves to a minister, have a chance to reach that minister? As councilman and president of the council, I've been announcing myself for a month, and I can't reach a single minister, because I've been dumped by some secretary or chief of staff, and I'm not looking for anything for myself, but I'm looking for my community. So, can I, President, when I ask for a reception, announce myself through you? I was the president of the Vojvodina Assembly and couldn't fall for the MP's hair, there was no way the MP wouldn't receive a member or minister of government. He had to do it. We are the parliamentary group that maintains this government. If we're talking about this amendment and the vault, I want one question answered. First, since there is no minister, can anyone tell me? We know that the vaults and, practically, the banks took over as SDK. If anything in socialism worked and was positive, it was SDK and it ruled the pay order. My question is, since I see from this material that 32 billion dinar surpluses will earn 22 billion from the sale of banks, how is it that foreigners buy what is not worth? They won't buy anything that isn't worth it. My question is, will the Vojvodjanska Banka be sold to OTP? I don't know if it's true, but I want to be answered, because what the people are saying is either it was or it will be. If OTP, it's some corporation from Hungary, buy the Vojvodjanska Banka, the Vojvodjanska Banka has tremendously many mortgages on many combinations and countries in Vojvodina. Whoever buys the Vojvodjanska Banka will buy a good share of the Vojvodian land. Whether it's state or social, I don't know, but it'll buy that land. Therefore, I want an answer to be given to me, because in order to vote for this budget, I need to know the government's position on whether it will sell the Vojvodjanska Banka and whether it can be the Vojvodjanska Banka what the Ljubljanska Banka in Slovenia is, because the Vojvodjanska Banka was the best bank in Yugoslavia. Can we have one national bank? Foreigners bought what was most valuable. The apathic brewery was bought by Interbro. He paid well, because he paid the workers, not the government. Clean accumulation last year, our brewery 37m euros. This is no longer Serbia's national income, but Belgium's. Secondly, I want the government to make a statement, I have had the opportunity to read our agriculture minister's statement, which said that we want to turn the social country into a state-owned country, we want to stop the sale of farmland of 10, 20 or 100 euros, and they are objectively worth 5,000 euros. So I want the government to plead. The Minister can't say they're very strong tycoons. They're not tycoons, I know them all. I was at the top of the game and I know Miskovic, I know Karic, I know Kostic. I had a chance to get to know Mattievich. They're not strong, it's a weak government. They can't buy a farmland as a national treasure for nothing, so they can resell it afterwards. If the government doesn't stop this, if the government can't do it, let it do at least what Djindjic did for the PKK. When the Belgrade Combined started to fail and the city of 2 million was to lose its green market, it socially turned it into a state and, practically, the PKK was protected and the state put it on its feet. So the state has to protect it. You can't talk about a law that will come in the fall, and in the meantime, we'll sell a whole farmland. If we sell a farmland as a national treasure, what will we have? So I ask the government to make a statement about this, because we Socialists have no right to talk about how we support the government because it's better. Here Vojislav Kostunica literally said, I memorized it by heart: "When it comes to privatisation, it must be just, it must be in favour of small shareholders and in favour of the state." I trusted him, and that's why I voted for him, but nothing changed. Privatisation is still in favour of tycoon and those who sell it on behalf of the state at the expense of small shareholders, at the expense of the state. I ask the Government to declare this: either you stop the sale of farmland, I want to know what the fate of the Vojvodjanska Banka is, and only when it is given, will we decide, me and a few MEPs, will we support this proposal of amending and supplementing the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18010	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18011	Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, if you are in a situation with severe pain and struggle to survive, this is the third day that the amendments and additions of the Law on the budgetary system and the budget of the Serbian state for 2005 are discussed. Unfortunately, since the start of the debate on these two points of the agenda, but the budget of the Serbian state and the Budget Law is the most important law that the National Assembly adopts in one year, the amendment and addition of that law is as important as the Law on Budget, the Prime Minister, the ministers did not find fit to be when the finance minister here in the exposé of two and more hours explained not only the texts of these two draft laws, but returned to the history of functioning of the banking system, the financial system of Serbia from its existence to today. Probably Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, his unfulfilled ambitions at the Faculty of Economics, to advance in hierarchy and academic titles, found it appropriate to give a lecture here in front of the MPs for two and more hours, but he did not find it appropriate neither to be here today nor to hear the MPs who listened to him for two or more hours when he spoke and explained these two texts of the law. It only speaks of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, about ministers who make up the government and the functioning of the government. No wonder, given the government's behaviour and certain ministers, why the state of the country is like this. The government of the government, including the president of the state, Boris Tadic, of those top state officials representing the state and the people in some moves they are trying as a marketing move by the Maradona party, and that this has been announced and awaited as news of the day, Tadic, with attempts to make preparations for the team and competition and to play for Serbia-Montenegro's team, because he had a fight with coach several years ago. And we heard here the announcement by Minister Dinkic to travel to Japan with the new director of the Red Star Stojkovic. Probably the leaders of the Serbian state are heading towards which one of the largest private televisions in Serbia entertains the people, and selling fog, false glamour, that hungry and thirsty people, naked and barefoot, forgets reality and the real state in which they are. I promised, there is Mr Albianic, I will make a public suggestion from the pay phone, as Minister Dinkic travels with Stojkovic, so he goes to Japan, so he will at least be able to collect the balls behind the goal there. Here, in his exposé of more than two hours, the minister was able to, and he prepared this speech with one word, construction and number play that has been translated into budget rebalancing, to convince the MPs, and probably the parliamentary majority who supports this government or will continue to support it, and we will see it tomorrow or the day after the vote on these two draft laws, and especially on budget rebalancing. So, thanks to him, the Serbian state, as an expert, the Ministry of Finance, led by Deputy Prime Minister Labus, has come into the situation that in six months from the deficit in 2005, 32 billion dinars are in surplus. I said it was a game of numbers, but that is why, through the amendment of the Law on the Budget System, clearly as all the amendments of the SRS say to most members of this law, in which direction Mladjan Dinkic, G17 wants to run state finances and the state of Serbia, and in view of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the budgets of local self-government. Directly placed under control, a direct decision on everything relating to finance and direct incursion in the jurisdiction of local authorities, which is inappropriate in all democratic systems when it comes to the division of power and the hierarchy and takeover of that control, and as this Article of the 30th proposed text of the law, to which I have submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS to delete this Article 30, as well as other previous amendments relating to the Treasury Administration, as this Article 30 adds to Article 73g of the basic law. This Article 73g is now proposed as follows - the minister prescribes the terms and conditions of closure and suspension of the sub-account of the vault, the plan of these sub-accounts, the way and procedure of carrying out payment traffic within the consolidated vault account, as well as the way and procedure of carrying out internal control of payment traffic in the context of the consolidated vault account. That was not enough for Minister Dinkic and for G17, so part of it should have been added, "as well as other issues of importance for the functioning of the vault. "So there is no limit to how long that power, as long as those powers should be, as never ends with those who rob Serbia, take away from the people and factories, and business space, and residential space. And we have come to the stage of kidnapping the people of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia with arable land and agricultural combinations and cooperatives. This is what should be the last stage to end up in the destruction of Serbia, the Serbian people and the state of Serbia without anything, and for us to become a free workforce of any domestic or foreign people. It is spoken in these provisions, and when it comes to the Treasury Administration, when this provision will enter into force and how the Treasury Administration will function. I cannot ask the question of Minister Dinkic, the vault in the municipality of Kraljevo is already open, because a committee member, or a young lady, I don't mind if she finished her economics college, she was on the list and she was a board member of the G17, and five or six months ago she was employed in the royal municipality vault. How is the vault opened in the municipality of Kraljevo if only now we have a proposal to set up a vault administration and at the level of the Republic of Serbia within the Ministry of Finance or within the framework of local self-government. It only speaks of the way G 17 works, Minister Dinkic and how they employ their own. There's probably a scenario they're doing in advance. Here, in a way, he said, but he didn't want to be decadent until the end and he made it clear that everything he was doing was working on the IMF's instructions. What he's doing now, this surplus fiction, given that there really isn't a surplus and it can't be if the state of Serbia owes pensioners on the basis of pension or other insurance -- a few pensions, or one and a half, as they say, with billions of dinars; if he owes 22 pensions to peasants, what kind of surplus can you even talk about? It did not bother the Serbian government, as it was explained by Minister Dinkic in the paragraphs that certain funding funds for the 1,000 most successful students in Serbia, 150 abroad for postgraduate studies, were allocated yesterday by the Serbian government to announce a competition in the list of "Evening News" and "Politicals". What does this debate mean yesterday and today about budget rebalances? If the government has already called a contest, is this a purely formality or humiliation of the National Assembly and the MPs? How does the Serbian Government know, is it so psychic that the National Assembly will propose budget rebalancing, as proposed in all paragraphs and positions? It only speaks of the impudence and unscrupulousness of the president and vice president of the government and of all ministers. I need to get some more stuff out here. A little while ago, in a way, tossing out Parliament Speaker Krasic spoke about Minister Dinkic, he says - do not prevent MPs from admiring the abilities of Minister Dinkic, and here he throws another MP - the character and the work. But Minister Dinkic's admiration should be experienced by workers in factories, especially in factories that are privatised, and successfully privatised; to experience this admiration from farmers in Vojvodina; to experience those who produce and produce strawberry fruit without talking about cattlemen, milk producers; to experience the admiration of pensioners; to experience admiration from employees in education, health care, and not to experience admiration in some closed halls, on these promotions - Europe knocks on the open door. That so-called. The promotion that was made in the King by Mr. Labus was made in the rooms of the King's High School. It is unacceptable to abuse children for political purposes. We know what age children are in high school - from first to fourth grade high school. It is not acceptable that Minister Dinkic, likely in co-operation with the municipality manager Kraljevo, Mr Nesovic, publicly and at a press conference in the Kingdom, states that he or G17 gave, as a gift to a successful child, who achieved the best result, won a concert in harmony in Europe, almost a million dinars. When we, as a committee group of SRS in the King, checked where that million dinars came from, those funds were allocated from the King's municipality's budget. I don't think it's moral or honorable that a finance minister behaves like that and that's how he represents things and does it. These funds are set aside by the citizens of the entire Kingdom municipality in the budget of the municipality. The citizens of the Kingdom municipality have many problems. We, as a committee group, were in favour of helping or giving a gift to this young, talented child, but to be a gift on behalf of the citizens of the Kraljevo municipality, from the Kraljevo municipality budget, not to abuse Minister Dinkic. We didn't remember that Minister Dinkic would steal from the budget of the municipality of Kraljem dinars and give it to the child on his own behalf and G17. We are not against it, I am not personally as an MP, nor as a man, nor an SRS parliamentary group, that a far greater amount should be allocated for the scholarships of the most successful students, that it should not be 1,000, be 5,000 students, but that it has its own order, way and way, to know who and how it decides on the money of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18012	Thank you, Mr. Four. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to Article 73d of the Law, or Article 31 of the Law. As in all previous discussions, according to the legal acts that you have filed, the SRS requires that this member of the law be deleted, for the reason that, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Parliament, one clerk, whoever he is, are given authority of the state authority. Minister Dinkic is not an organ. Minister Dinkic is a clerk. He may be an organ in his party, a political authority, but the government's authority is not, but is one of the government's officials. Therefore, such powers cannot be given to one man, and especially to an irresponsible man, such as the finance minister. What's going on with article 73d? The government proposes to delete Article 73d, which says: "The payment from the account, i.e. the subcalculation of the publisher's order, shall be made up to the amount of funds in those accounts. Orders for whose payment is not provided for the assets referred to in Article 1, shall be recorded according to the reception time, if the law does not provide otherwise. "The minister, whom you have declared and this bill to the authorities of the state administration, says: "The orders for which no funds are provided are recorded and executed according to the time of reception, if the law is not different. The minister is closer to edits the procedure for carrying out the payment order referred to in Article 1." You have allowed one man to literally decide on being or not to be certain parts of local self-government, certain parts of the economy, state administrations, individual parts of the budget, first of all, I mean health, education, military, police and all that. The minister will decide. If the minister gets up on his left leg, there won't be any payments this day, because he made the decision. That gives him this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this Minister Dinkic becomes an alpha and interferes in Serbia. What kind of prime minister, what kind of president of the state, what kind of copper, what kind of parliament, what judiciary, what legislation? He is the one who will decide everything - life and death. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time for this House to come to mind and finally return these laws to further work. If I can't, let them find out who's going to write, let them pay, we pay for everything and everything anyway. It's better for the state to pay for someone to write a smart law than for a law like this to come into force, the damage is hundreds of times greater.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18014	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. According to this amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment to Article 31 was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. In general, there are several members of this draft law amending the Budgetary System Act relating to Article 73. The only difference is that there are several members 73b, 73v, 73g, 73j, etc. What's important is that this article is very well seen as how this parliamentary majority works in the first place, and it's very good to see and what kind of experts are those who wrote both this law and many other laws, which we are mostly unsuccessfully trying to fix. I say unsuccessfully not because there may be a lack of knowledge or good ideas for the SRS parliamentary group, but above all because of the absolute lack of understanding shown by the parliamentary majority, the lack of understanding above all that accepting or not accepting some amendment will absolutely mean nothing to the citizens of Serbia in this sense that the amendment is accepted, but it can also mean only because, in a qualitative sense, some draft laws will be corrected. In a year or two, if this law that we adopt is really good and what we all want it to be, no one will remember who has submitted the amendments, or who are the amendments, or what Parliament's club is the most responsible for being such a law or something like that. Of course, it will be remembered that the parliamentary majority who passed this law, and I think it would take a little bit of, I should say, more of you to be more in the mood to study and accept some amendments to the SRS. A good illustration of how this law has been prepared and how seriously prepared it is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has also submitted an amendment to this law, and practically we had no law on the agenda that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not submitted at least one amendment. It is usually much more of the amendments that they submit themselves to their draft laws and we simply wonder whether there is some opposition within the government, whether those provisions of the government law can be asked by a single member of the government to state whether or not the Prime Minister is right or not, when he has given a certain order, whether those provisions begin to act. Why, before you put some law into practice, especially when it comes to proposals, amendments and additions to certain laws, why are these legislative proposals not better done by technical services, first of all, by the Secretariat of legislators, but by getting into a situation to embarrass yourself and to submit one day a proposal on amendments and amendments to the law, and to submit a few days later to yourselves amendments? I think it's extremely unserious of you, that you should break up more with this practice and that if you already want to accept some amendment, and there have been such cases, then the government submits an amendment in the same text as some other parliamentary group did. The amendment submitted to Article 73b, amendment of the Government, is required by this amendment to delete, in Article 73b, paragraph 2 of the Law. It's just amazing that it would be clearer for those who listen eventually, it's about the attitude that exists in the bill, which the government wants to change. First, on July 8, 2005, the Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal to amend and supplement this existing law and said that it is absolutely necessary to delete this law's position, that it simply can no longer survive in the legal system, that it is necessary for the various harmonisations, that the financial system in the future will flourish, that it will probably flourish after the adoption of this law, but then it happens that only seven days after that, after the firm position of the Government and the conviction that this law is necessary to delete, the Government submits to itself the amendment and says that what we wrote last week is no longer valid, we are now not erasing what is in the law, but we are erasing this in the proposal on amendments to the law. I think this is an insult to every MP in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, not only to the opposition, but also to the MPs who support this government. At the very least, it is unserious that you allow them to play with you like this, to make you represent each other every two days with different attitudes. I will remind you that the parliamentary majority also supported this amendment and supplemental bill at the meeting of the Finance Committee. You all pleaded, and you said this bill was good, you voted for it, and a few days later at the Finance Committee's session, when it came to debate details, then you accepted this amendment of the Government both as comprehensive and legally possible. I don't think there's any excuse for this, and it would be interesting to hear the government's explanation and the explanation is very brief. One single sentence and it says why they're erasing what they wanted to delete. He says - The government considers it necessary to keep an existing solution in Article 73b of Article 4(2) of the Law, so it proposes to delete the words set out in the Amendments and Supplements to this Act. In other words, the government has an opinion, but it disagrees with him. Please don't let this sort of thing happen in the future. You often criticise the amendments of the SRS, agree with them or disagree with them, but something so pointless that within just a few days, the government has twice changed its opinion of one member of the law, and in doing so, I don't think it will do anyone any good. So still accept this amendment to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18016	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18017	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the very least, I wonder why in principle a good member, let's say technically designed, changes. The promoter, or government, asked for an old member of 73d to be deleted. This article, aged 73d, reads: "The payment from the account, i.e. the sub-account of the publisher of the order, shall be up to the amount of the funds in those accounts". I hope that's not a question, and it can't be. So, as much money as there is, it's going to be spent, and at the very least it's surprising that this part of the text is deleted. "The orders for whose payment is not provided for the assets of the Article 1 position are recorded and executed according to the reception time, if the law is not different." This section is prescribed in new Article 73d, but a new stance has been added, which says -- the minister is closer to edits the procedure for carrying out the payment order set out in Article 1 of this article. Now the question is, what does the proposer really want with this law, with this last attitude? The previous attitude is quite clear. "The orders for which payment is not provided, are recorded and executed according to the time of reception, if the law is not different." Or it should have been said: "Obligations for whose payment is not provided are recorded and executed according to the reception time, if the minister does not otherwise want it". The new attitude that's being added confirms this just now as I said. It is not understandable at all why Minister Dinkic insists so much that even where the most common technique is, he must be asked, that he must know, that he must decide. In any proposal where the government of the Republic of Serbia's authorised representative Dinkic, or author of the law, the minister is closer to sorting one thing, the other thing, the third thing, the fourth thing, is getting closer to the minister. We are still waiting for some legal proposal to say that Minister Dinkic in the government of the Republic of Serbia, or from it, regulates the weather forecast. That's all that's left and that's all a man has to do with all the possible stuff in the country. So if the budget doesn't have money, it'll be a dry year, because the minister can't pay the premiums. That's all that's left, but I think that thing is in someone else's hands, and it's lucky it's not in Dinkic's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18018	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for this law in Article 73j regulates non-execution of payment orders. This article provides that the Treasury Administration will not execute a payment order which does not comply with the regulations and, at the request of the applicant, within three days of the day of the submission of the order, will give written explanation of the reasons for the refusal of the order. This article provides for the possibility of a vault not to execute a payment order, if they assess that it does not comply with the regulations and do not give any explanation as to why the order was suspended. The argument will be given to whoever requested payment, so at the request of the applicant only within three days, only at his request. However, it is inadmissible for the Treasury Administration to make a decision, meaning, a formal act, either in the light of the conclusion, in the light of a solution that will suspend payment without giving any reason why this payment should be suspended. In principle, the SRS is against the introduction of a Treasury Management Institute and the replacement of one managing authority, so the public payment authorities of another, the authorities of the Treasury Administration, which consumes all the powers within itself, and this has a public payment administration, adding some other powers which are specifically stated here in the explanation, where the legislator of this law, by the way, lists some of the powers that the Treasury Administration will have, inter alia, indicate the processing of personal remuneration of employees. The processing of personal incomes by employees is carried out by employers and entrepreneurs who are employed by these employees and do not need to process personal remuneration of employees by the Treasury administration. They can carry out that control, tax authorities can carry out that control with economic operators and there is no need for that type of data to be managed by the vault management. Public payments, that's the basic activity of the vault management and that's fine. Monitoring and control of the activities of public enterprises. It is simply unclear why the Treasury Administration would control the activities of public enterprises. The Directors of Public Enterprises are appointed by the Government, the Management and Supervisory Board of Public Enterprises by the Government and should exercise control over the appointed persons, meaning the Director of the Management Board, the Supervisory Board. There is no reasonable reason why the Treasury Administration would exercise that kind of authority. In particular, it is unclear in the explanation that the registration and monitoring of State aid is stated. It is completely unclear why this type of State aid record would be run by the Treasury Administration, that is, why the administration would do the job. Powers have been extended so much that it is simply unclear why the government has agreed to such a bill where all powers, which have to do with the Ministry of Finance and those who have nothing to do with the nature of the business with the Ministry of Finance, are sublimated in one person, or finance minister. This will best be seen according to the personal solution that will follow after the entry into force of this law. The government will have to elect the director of the vault management on a proposal from the minister and we will know clearly what it is. So either the DSS will set up its own man and in some way establish a balance in the financial sphere and put at least partially under the control of finance in the Republic of Serbia or continue to keep the G17 plus absolutely under control holding all the finances. For its part, the Director of the Treasury Board will be of order G17 plus, which will round up the absolute control of all finances in this country. The DSS's justification that the coalition government has been divided into resolutions and that they are not responsible for finance, that it is left to G17 plus, does not stand and cannot be. The prime minister must be responsible for everything that happens in one country, even in the financial sphere, so it will be very difficult to justify tomorrow this government that comes down from power, which is why it has allowed itself this luxury that absolutely everything that is related to finance in this country will be in the hands of a party such as the G17 plus. This is what the Socialists felt best on their backs, along with JUL during their reign, so there is no big difference between JUL and G17 plus. He is also a member of 73k, which regulates the suspension of funds related to the authorities of local self-government if they do not deliver the report and certain acts required by the Treasury Administration. The law does not specify what acts and reports are required to be delivered by the Treasury Administration to regularly arrive at the budget of municipalities, the AP, means, in general, the local self-government authorities, leaving the possibility of widespread abuse by the Treasury administration. Here, a number of municipalities were heard during the day, primarily for the city of Belgrade, which were denied for certain funds, particularly where representatives of the SRS participated in the government, either as majority partners in local self-government or minority, and there was also a denial. However, it is evident that these municipalities are the most deprived and that the DSS has helped the DS to get to the situation that local self-government suffers because someone from some other option in power is at local level. This refers to the city of Belgrade, as the DSS, together with the DSS, anti-constitutionally amended the Belgrade City Statute directly, a few days before the local elections were called and the opposite of the Law on Local Elections, abolished the election of the municipality president for municipalities that are part of the Belgrade city. This was designed to rule in Belgrade city municipalities through parliamentary groups and thus directly violated the Law on Local Elections, where it is explicitly foreseen that the president of the municipality must be elected in the direct elections. That is why a large number of problems arise in Belgrade's urban municipalities, because there is no legitimately elected president of the municipality, but the presidents of the municipalities at the same time the presidents of the municipality's municipalities, unprincipled coalitions were created, authorities were replaced at local level, various combinations were made, making the most of the damage to the citizens themselves living in these municipalities. Generally speaking, the whole bill, which is ahead of us, gives too much authority to the finance minister, so it could be said that if there is a conflict between Minister Dinkic and the law, that Minister Dinkic will apply, because he put himself above this law and other laws and assumed absolutely all power in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18020	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18021	Perhaps this article and this amendment to Article 73j is a good opportunity to point out that it is not quite possible to mechanically merge the Treasury and the Public Payments Authority and to count on all this to be in line with the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. Under the current law, the Public Payments Authority may not execute any order. This article shows a kind of administrative-accounting dispute with elements of the conflict between the central and local authorities, i.e. to remind you of those provisions of the Law on local self-government where local self-government has the legitimate right to protect itself from the Republic if its rights and interests are compromised. Put these two concepts in the context of what you wrote in article 73j after this change to replace the words "public payments" with the word "cash". The Treasury Administration will not execute a payment order that is not in conformity with the regulations (excessively given; I think a warrant which does not comply with the regulations should, above all, be interpreted in terms of the rules relating to the financial operations, or the execution of the budget), and, at the request of the applicant, within three days of the day of the submission of the order, will explain in writing the reasons for the refusal of the order. Why does he explain it in writing? Don't you think it's a solution? Since the Treasury Administration is defined as the former SDK, and you know the SDK when it does not execute some of the user's orders in the obligation to bring a solution and to conduct a administrative-account dispute. You here exclude the ability to conduct an administrative-accounting dispute, but I'm telling you that the situation is completely different if you have in mind the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, where local self-government based on the Constitution is guaranteed the right to protect itself from the Republic and the Government. That protection will not be provided by this member. There's no administrative act here. If by analogy you're thinking about an administrative act and you're counting on the minister to prescribe it with his regulations, then the procedure and this can't be regulated by a sublegal act, but by law. It has to be regulated by law. The minister cannot regulate this entire area by his instructions, regulations, or any other sublegal act. The payment order, on which it is verified, on which it is granted, as proven, what is proven, etc. You'll have a problem there. It's a kind of administrative-account dispute. You challenge him in this way, by the fact that the Treasury Administration can refuse a payment order, you are causing a kind of administrative-accounting dispute that local self-government proves that its order was in accordance with the regulations. Who do you want him to talk to? Minister? Where to conduct the procedure? What if the Minister is wrong if the Director of the Office of the Tsresor is wrong, the liquidator who works at the Treasury Authority is wrong. What's this about? What are the consequences of proving after some time that the one who filed the payment order, the beneficiary of the budget, was right. It's not that simple to connect two things, so you say that the vault is a record and the Public Payments Authority, that's what it approves, etc., so that we make it SDK, the Treasury Authority. This is where a kind of administrative-accounting dispute arises, where local authorities, local authorities, can conduct administrative-account proceedings against the Treasury Administration, because a request has been rejected, i.e. a payment order. You did not even predict this, and in particular you did not foresee the situation that local self-government has the Constitution guaranteed the right to protect itself from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You also forgot the area, i.e. in continuity, since Djelic did not see it in the original text of the Budget System Act. You know, the regulation when it's written then takes care of the Constitution, the other laws that it needs to be harmonised with and that it makes some legal-logical continent, and here there's a mechanical collection to get everything under control, and then later it can be noticed that the entire areas aren't regulated, and if they need to be regulated, then the minister will regulate them with his sublaws. It can, in practice, be based on this law and on what is essentially the substance of the Government's regulation to transfer it to the Minister's manual or rulebook. Then we're talking about the great democratic fluids of the five-octobar revolution. It's lost right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18022	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) Ambassador Dragan Cholic has submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. I ask that article 33 be deleted, for reasons the SRS considers that the public should and must be familiar with the list, and that includes periodic changes in the list. So this article in 33 says that Article 73e of Section 3 is deleted. Article 73e defines the list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources. The contents of Article 73a reads as follows: "The Minister determines the list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budgets, i.e. local authorities and compulsory social security organisations, which are included in the consolidated account system of the vault. Item 2: "The list of articles 1 of this article shall be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Item 3, which only for his known reasons and motives, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic deleted, reads: "The amendments and additions of the list from Article 2 of this article are published three months ago in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", within 15 days of the end of the quarter." The question is who bothered with this, why does someone have a problem with the public of work and that Serbian citizens can be aware of what the list is and what are the direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budgets? If a member of the 73rd Law is deleted, then it is possible for a minister to decide without any list, away from the public's eyes, who will and in any way directly or indirectly use the budget funds that have recently been obtained exclusively by hara, by the withdrawal of money from the poorest layers of citizens. Although Serbia's citizens have already loathed the will of Minister Dinkic, such behaviour goes beyond measure. That Mr Dinkic is an ossion, arrogant, self-willed, also shows that, perhaps he appreciates the president of the assembly, his party speaker, Mr Markovic, but the MPs of the National Assembly don't appreciate it at all. He's gone. He doesn't have the strength to listen here to all the reasoned remarks, especially the MPs of the SRS. That's why he's shown lately, and even since he's been in that position, in general, how it works, that he's got the biggest problem with the SRS. He does not have the strength to face reasoned criticism from SRS MPs. Spending resources from the budget without a set list only leads to an uncontrollable outflow of budget funds, mainly by party and personal ties. The chaos in the sphere of fiscal policy is the main feature and characteristic of the rule of Mladjan Dinkic and the coalition in power, which does not mind at all. While more than a year of the SRS parliamentary group in the National Assembly has been speaking decidently, clearly, what Mladjan Dinkic is, who are all damages from such action by the finance minister, however, to the coalition in power it does not bother at all, she persistently supports him in such a way of working. Because of this centralism in the ministries led by G17 Plus ministers, which Stalin would have, if he were alive, taken off his hat, according to my distinguished colleague, SRS MP Mr Rankic, we Serbian radicals who claimed that G17 plus no ideology, here, we might now consider this claim a little bit and suggest that you publicly reassurate the ideology of Stalinist centralism. You've contributed a lot, you've done it quite successfully. Maybe you'll come to life with something that's long gone, maybe that's how you'll get into history. In the end, I would just like to keep one of the promises I made to representatives of the Union of alcoholics, who asked me to do so on their behalf, and there are many politicians and behaviors of Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic cannot possibly understand, and as they are touched by that policy, I ask - why is Mladjan Dinkic misleading Serbian citizens? They say, "We want to legalize and be taxpayers, but we don't want to be fiscal." They find that incomprehensible, incomprehensible. "The Union of Drinkers invites Mladjan Dinkic to explain from the pay phone why he is pushing the fiscal cash register." They invite him to explain from the pay phone, we also invite him to the SRS MPs, but that is the voice of the cryer in the desert, because Mr Dinkic probably has a meeting with Javier Solana or some spiritual father, a spiritual mentor. He doesn't care about this. Maybe he's got a gig. He's very strong in that area, he's a good musician. He's probably about to shoot a record, we'll see. The Union of Drinkers says that the fiscal register is physically inconclusive and that there are no conditions for the application of the register in practice, in the conditions of wind, rain, cold, minus 20 degrees or more, when these people who fight to survive, for a piece of bread to feed their families, literally and fingers on their hands frozen. Nor do they have the opportunity to press what they need to press on that register. The last question: why Mr. Dinkic on TV Pink deceives Serbian citizens and tells them what his dreams are, his hopes and desires, but something that has nothing to do with reality, with a real state in Serbia, with life in Serbia. It is certain that Mladjan Dinkic is not touched by the great torments of taxpayers who are cut literally to the naked skin. When the time comes, and that is inevitable, the SRS finance minister will have his hands full, to arrange the financial sphere and to be in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Until then, Serbian citizens will have to suffer the terror of Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18024	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18025	Article 33 of the amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act refers to Article 73a of the basic text. Item 1: "The Minister determines the list of direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budget, i.e. local authorities and compulsory social security organisations, which are included in the consolidated account system of the vault". Item 2: "The list of articles 1 of this article shall be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". Item 3: "The amendments and additions to the list set out in Article 2 shall be published three months in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", within 15 days of the end of the quarter" This last position bothers the Government. She obviously does not want to report three months on whether there have been any changes, although I think a much more rational solution is to publish a full list of all direct and indirect beneficiaries of the Republic's budget every three months. But I have to point out another flaw that's been made. You lost it when you were working on these changes, to cover up some of the dangerous things that are being prepared, and for God's sake, some of them have been installed, so now they have to cover their tracks. In particular, it refers to these hidden accounts, so I would have to remind you that you have changed the definition, so you said: a pooled account of the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, the local authorities' vault, through which payment is made between the beneficiaries of the budget and the means of compulsory social security, on the one hand, and entities not covered by the consolidated account system of the vault, on the other hand, and accounting for interbank payments. You forgot that this system is run practically by the NBS, but this member unequivocally indicates, this is Article 8, the consolidated account of the Republic's vault, the consolidated accounts of the local authorities' vaults, make up the consolidated account system that's being run to the NBS. If these accounts are kept at NBS, it is most logical that the NBS publishes a list of both direct and indirect beneficiaries of the budget. Most logically, they keep these accounts, and before the account of the local government vault is determined by the competent authority for the financing of local authorities, these accounts of the Republic's vault are opened by the Ministry of Finance, and they are being taken to the NBS. It's much more logical that the NBS publishes that list. Someone's going to ask a question, why is that list important? And how important that list is that it simply grows apart as far as it is concerned, and as far as the direct ones are concerned, they are already in the budget, but there are indirect ones, and there are indirect ones that are not covered by some positions or economic classifications of Serbia's 6th budget for 2005, and they probably think that next year it will also be published by the same methodology. That's that distribution schedule. There is a need for all those involved in the financial system of this country to have an accurate review of both direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources and what is important for us in the National Assembly, which is what we, under the Constitution, are obliged to control the work of the Government, and hence, the Ministry of Finance, is interesting to us and the situation in our accounts, and probably the National Assembly will, in some period ahead, have to organise a system to control the Ministry of Finance, because it has prevailed both the government and until now known systems of determining the authority of the state authorities. We're probably preparing what some political parties advocate, and yet they don't talk about changing the constitution anymore, but there are some thoughts about forming an accounting court. I think it should be a committee at the National Assembly, with clear executive powers of control of all budgets, consumer control. If such intensities are present in particular, they require that everything be clear and transparent, I do not know why the new transparent democratic authority avoids meeting the public's obligation to inform all beneficiaries of the budget, whether they are direct or indirect. What's to hide now? Is it possible Djelic was more democratic than Mladjan Dinkic? Is it possible? Don't you find that a little offensive for DS to come out now and say, well, you see, when we were, there were changes and additions being made public, and when you came, you were dictators, state terrorism, etc. That doesn't affect you, because the cards have already been decided and you know you're going to vote this, but make sure you don't cross over.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18026	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18027	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Angelkovic, this incredible situation in this relationship of power in the Republic of Serbia, and I have to go back to 28 December 1993 and 2003, respectively, I'm sorry. As far as the period is concerned, and that's exactly what I was associated with for 10 years ahead of that, so I said in 1993, because today one of my colleagues mentioned a year of hyperinflation and a later period in which the state was under sanctions, under blockade and bombed in 1999, it is a time of great suffering and of the Serbian people, and also of Serbian economy. But during that period until that year, it means by the end of 2002, or the whole of 2003, when the Budget System Act was started to apply, people who once worked in the Social Accounting Service, SDK, people who worked in banks with state or social capital, who Dinkic erased and took over one piece of the staff, and the others who threw out onto the street, took over a system that existed in a country that had existed for decades, including under those conditions since 1992 and 1993, for 10 years, perfect business, even though we were faced with major disasters, and the Serbian economy in general. At the time, a minister, an expert in the country, Bozidar Djelic, who introduced a reform alleged, that is, how he said the transformation of Serbian public finances, whose successor is, absolutely agreeing with everything Djelic did today, Mladjan Dinkic, the entire set of powers and those who support power. Then it is amazing that the DSS and the SPS, and the DSS conditional on Djelic's opposition, and by December 2003 the SPS was an opposition in this parliament, supporting the amendments and additions to the laws that Djelic created in 2002 and introduced the Public Payments Administration, i.e. now transforming it into the Treasury Administration, when absolutely to us Serbian radicals and these people who worked during the period of sanctions and decades before that in the SDK, was absolutely clear what was the intention of Governor Mladjan Dinkic and Bozidar Djelic, and today the finance minister. Their intention was to, united, watch out, it was not only Djelic's wish, he had the absolute support of SRJ Governor Mladjan Dinkic at the time, to allegedly modernise Serbian pay traffic. What Djelic then told us, and of course none of it changes in this law, all those who are the government and who support Dinkic agree with it, and that is the only thing in which Dinkic is consistent, follows in the direction of Djelic, and what he did and then the DS that was in power. But these others are problematic, both DSS and SPS. If then they did not agree with the Budget System Act, how could someone today accept these changes and additions, which essentially mean that only greater powers by forming the Treasury Administration are granted to the finance minister, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. That is also the amendment I have submitted, which refers to the basic Article 73g of the law, which speaks about how to collect its services, financial and other, the Treasury Administration, or Djelic's Public Payments Authority. Not that it wasn't the modernisation of Serbian payment traffic, but at that time there were major problems for these national banks and they were later shut down, for the organisation units of the former SDK, and now these payment services, for people who were then out of work and for local self-government units. All of this could be justified by the authorities at the time if there was not an extremely rigorous relationship, i.e. the relationship between the Ministry of Finance supervisor and the local self-government authority. This morning, on the case of the town of Kragujevac and the problem, which happened with the Arms Factory, the Company of Purpose Products, because of this Bill on the Budgetary System and yesterday's committee reaction in the City Assembly, I explained the position of local self-purple. But not only were they brought into that situation, but they are choking even more. Now literally, in the true sense of words, these additional amendments to the Budgetary System Act, in financial terms, kills and chokes the Ministry of Finance. It is interesting how Djelic then came, along with Dinkic, to the famous idea of passing the Budget System Law and establishing the Public Payments Authority. He explained it, I have something in front of me that he left to the people's representatives, though some, considered it appropriate for him to send it to me, because along with Serbian radicals, there were 23 of us at the time, I was one of the biggest critics of his famous reforms and what Dinkic was doing at the time, he said it was necessary to modernize the payment traffic because he and Dinkic asked the IMF to do so. The experience of Macedonia and Slovenia, with the help of their experts, is the Treasury sector of the Ministry of Finance, where probably these ladies sitting here and persistently listen to what we're saying, instead of the minister, and then they're working, and they're doing it now. The vault sector has prepared this because such a reform in public finances in Serbia is necessary. Serbian Radicals have been much related to amendments to the amendments to this law – as we did when the law was passed in late 2002, we are now seeking to delete all these members with amendments, because the powers are growing and bigger – we were saying that this new sector of the Treasury administration, with the new director and with such powers, such a supervisory, by Minister Mladjan Dinkic, is a new organisation unit in financial terms, but in practical terms -- a new bank that will provide services in the area of finance and charge them. Article 73ž is absolutely the same as Djelic's, because this government is fully continuing, in financial terms, the continuity of the previous DOS government, because this member only changes, instead of the Public Payments Authority, the "Government of the Treasury" is established, which charges compensation for services made by public payments, and can provide other financial services and perform other jobs in accordance with the contract on which the income is obtained, because it was founded when the SDK service was shut down. But later, the next member appears, a continuation of this 73, 73z, which says it should regulate the working relationship of the Treasury's staff. What does Mladjan Dinkic suggest now? He's even more radical. It goes one step further, I mean in a negative sense. When someone is radical, like the Serbian radicals, it's the most positive thing in every way. But this is the complete destruction of the country's financial system. Because you see what this is all about, except that the Director of the Treasury will get these powers, which the Finance Ministry will have even more control over the budgets of the local self-government units, the working relationship, which is regulated by this Djelic law in Article 73z, will be deleted here, because otherwise, not through the regulation, means some sublegal act, but not through the law, regulate the employment relationship and salaries of employees in the future vault administration. Since it will be party listeners, those who are close to the Secretary of Finance or DSS, or one of the parties that is in power, then it is a big question of how much will be paid to those employees in the Treasury administration. It's no longer regulated by law. So it's the Ministry that's going to prescribe, and they're collecting revenue based on the provision of these services, which is referred to by this amendment and the article I submitted the amendment to. Their wages can be who knows how much, how much are the appetites employed there. The whole law is so well-conceived that after the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, where the basic text was also adopted during the DOS government, you accepted it by hand, so after the Law on Banks and after this Law on the Budgetary System, i.e. the change and addition, the absolute monopoly of public finances was left in the hands of one man. The question then arises for the citizens of Serbia, but they know it long ago, they've known since Mr Nikolic's first press conference in 2003, when we shot down the DOS government, that without coming to power, and without our participation in the executive government, public finances management, in the true sense of the word, nothing will change. It won't and it's getting worse. Only a question remains for those who were then critics of the Law on the Budgetary System -- how it is possible for them now to accept and praise the law so generously. There were, however, those colleagues who criticised it in some parts, such as fellow Smiljanic, but the question remains whether this law will bring anything to improve and manage public finances at all. No, it's going to be worse and worse, because one man is going to decide on every dinar - from the local community through the community. Of course, he manages banks and entire finances in this country. We don't think this kind of centralization is good. All of you, when you were your opposition officers, in all of your stages, were just saying the opposite, that you advocated decentralisation of power, especially when local elections are. You used to say that like parrots in the last campaign. How can decentralisation be done at the level of local self-government when the minister is choking and strangling local self-government? Yesterday, because of this law that Djelic passed, and now even worse changes to that law, we had to act as councilors at the city level, because this assistance was necessary for one factory, or for the people who work there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18028	I thank Mrs. Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. I am taking the opportunity to remind you that the debate has been extended until the amendment debate is concluded on the amendment to the Amendment Act and amendments to the Budgetary System Act and that we have 12 amendments left. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18029	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need for someone to be permanent in the O.R., but MPs who were more strongly critical of this decentralisation before noon than the intensity of this criticism this afternoon, some of the MPs were never your opposition, but they were a great opposition, an excellent opposition -- the strongest possible. When someone needs to take a candy in their mouth, buy a chocolate in large quantities. The Socialist Party of Serbia can hurt when used unauthorizedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18030	Thank you. We're moving on to the next member. A member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Verice Radet. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am also speaking to this representative of the government who spoke before me. It is our duty to point out to you the wanderings that all of you as DOS have been doing since 2001, since you took over Serbia. If you just remember, you who had done this serious business before 2000, you will remember that there was a long time ago the idea that payment traffic would have gone into banks and that the law had been passed, but that its application was several times delayed, because some banks were not ready to bear the burden of paying through banks, and they were organized, and others had already had money to do so, but they had no counters, exposures, branches in all municipalities in Serbia, so they waited for the moment when those banks that were organized and their business space to take over banks that were not organised, but the state had given them money. In order for all of this to be done, someone had to abolish the Social Accounting Service, the most organised firm, with the best system for monitoring accounts, for paying, and this involved both funds from the budget and the assets of economic operators. A few years later, experts suggest something unrecorded so far. They say -- because the economy doesn't have money, we'll leave the traffic still in the banks, and this money that has the budget, we'll put it in the vault, so the vault will be the bank, and the SDK, and everything it needs, but it'll be in the finance ministry. So you are now forming a new SDK, to which you will form a new information system from budget users' resources, because you killed the state information system that had SDK. Now we will invest again in a new system that will enable Serbia to be in the palm of the one who manages the budget. You form the Treasury Administration, but, behold, miracles, the Treasury Department is run by the finance minister. Even the systematization of jobs, on a proposal from the director, brings in the finance minister. The Treasury Administration shall also charge compensation for the services of public payments made. The board's body is part of the finance ministry. What are you making, what kind of a mess is this, and what's it gonna be for? What the Ministry of Finance has to do with payments and how the Treasury Administration has the resources of budget users and social security funds, because there's only funds there, there's only money. Now the Treasury Administration is going to create payment dynamics, user schedules and you local self-government that don't object to this, your vault management will determine when any local self-government will get the money. Everything is now in the hands of the Treasury Administration and the Treasury Administration in the hands of the finance minister, and the finance minister in the hands of G17 plus, and Serbia in the hands of G17 plus. Undeserved. Undeservedly, with 150,000 votes Serbia cannot fall into your hands, it must not fall into your hands. Because that's all you care about. All you care about is how much money is going to come down and how much money is going to stay in the cash register of coders. That's why we're worried, and that's why we're discussing this, and that's why we're calling on those who are against discussion to get out of the O.R., because this is the discussion room, the debate room, this is a hall for the MPs and for those who are qualified for this job, and for those who are not, because in front of a people sent here today, 45 laws are being found in this session. Is there a college that needs to be completed so that 45 laws can be discussed and no one in the O.R. tells him - you're not educated, you're not doing the job. But you find yourself using every opportunity to attack Serbian radicals, you who are not in power to resent what we are discussing on the bill's proposals. It's a moral downfall, it's a moral zero, it's a zero. What are you defending here? The bill that G17 plus filed. If you can't attack him already, don't touch those who can, because we don't owe anyone a dime here. There's no one who can say -- radicals owe us, and that's why they're going to have to vote for this law or that law. I'm not sure that it can't be said for some in this room, even for groups, not just for individuals. The rest is recorded all the things that radicals have discussed, and it affects popularity, and it affects the results of the elections we expect, because in a few months this government is going to change this law, to take some of our amendments, so that as a proposal to amend and supplement the law, it is embarrassed today that none of you can accept any amendments to the SRS. I remember times when MPs of the ruling majority were not allowed to accept amendments, but these MPs are no longer MPs, and their party is no longer a majority in this assembly. I don't know what good opposition or good authority meant, I guess you're discussing it on your own, but this law is not good. The emissaries are getting out of the O.R. ) Baralic, don't let me take Aca Stefanovic into the parliamentary group again. Don't throw it away, you're a man, come out for a pay phone, so show me you're a man. You hiding behind group G17 plus, so earning, I don't appreciate it at all. I appreciate these G17 plus what they're getting, they're defending their attitudes. And whose attitudes are you defending, Baralic? While you were in power, there was SDK.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18032	Please, no controversy from the O.R. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18033	Why not? With Baralic, it's nice to have sex. So, we're trying to convince you that this isn't a good solution and I'm trying to tell you, to guide you, you're not in the O.R., but I guess one of you will hear. Read some of these bill proposals coming in from your experts. Read the few of you who make up the body of this government, not the brain. Read it, don't say it later -- we didn't know what they were suggesting, and that's what the G17 plus suggested. No, this is what you all suggest to Serbia. If we adopt this in a few days, Serbia will work on this and all the money will come into triumvirate, triumvirate Jelasic-Labus-Dinkic and there is no fourth. And that's a lot, and it's gonna break into two. So please think seriously. You allow us to argue here about laws that make up political miles, about laws that make up financial miles. We don't fight here at all. You let it pass, convinced that those who suggest it know what they suggest. They really know what they're proposing, but what they're proposing is very bad, and you don't know what they're suggesting, and you don't know how bad it is. She's talking about forming a government, in which the coders have asked exclusively for money to be available to it, is now up to date. Now you can see why you should not be allowed to form a government like that and now you see Slobina that you were not allowed to support that government for one day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18034	MP Miloljub Albianic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18035	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments we had the opportunity to hear about today, so-called. Explanations, like this amendment, should be refused without thinking. But not only that, it is a very clear intention in which the SRS is trying to explain its amendments, which mainly read as "Deleted." Why does the amendment say that? Because they don't know how else to write it, and because that's the way they write it they want to bring Serbia back to that dark time where they once ruled and brought the country to ruin. It's an idea and it's intent, and today I hear the word "opposition." What power you were at that time, irresponsible, bad, ruined Serbia, and that is how you are today the opposition. You can't be better, it's you and you show Serbian citizens your true face every day. When you say wandering, it's dark for you to have a basic feature and you're the one who's still wandering around in that darkness, you don't know that democratic change has happened in Serbia and that we're taking Serbia to the EU and the future that you deserve, not what you wanted to give it. You mentioned and tried behind the pay phone today, and you've already done it several times, I guess the citizens of Serbia or one of your supporters think it's true. You say Scientologists, G17 plus is sect. The way you work, the way you want to bring down the dignity of the congregation, it really looks like a sect's functioning. If that's what you're up against, that's how you work here in the congregation, that way, like a sect, don't try to put it on someone else's burden. Here it is mentioned for a congregation speaker, explaining amendments, to God that the trip to Japan is something terrible, and Japan is one of the seven most developed countries in the world. Well, someone else respects why you're on your way, God, with Pixie. Why are normal Serbia today and athletes, and artists, and cultural workers, and writers and all the intellectual things Serbia has today. Why? And that bothers you. You have to wonder why you are not the kind of people in Serbia. Because that dark still bothers you today. Very often at the pay phone, explaining the so-called Amendments that say "wipe," you say -- the power of Mladjan Dinkic. He's become more powerful than the Prime Minister. He's become this or that. Does that mean your impotence, does that mean that you don't actually have any solutions and suggestions besides adding even more power to someone? I believe Mr. Dinkic's impotes it, if he's given a little more power than he really has. As for payment traffic, listen to the reasons that SDK paid traffic has moved into banks, and what is normal and common in the modern world, and what has been done here, despite your desire to make it wrong, because I guess you're discussing everything that way, and if it were worse, it's better for Serbia. Don't do that, it's the wrong way and the wrong way. So, payment traffic for a very short time has been successfully transferred to banks. I have 15 minutes to talk about the amendment. For G17 plus words like -- they killed, it doesn't belong at all, and you here very often when you come out, especially you, Mr. Nikolic, for a pay phone, you say -- you killed the Rules of Procedure, you killed this, you killed that. A little bit of your vocabulary, and it would be good for the dignity of this home, to change, so that we could get rid of those words, those former times in this country, and thanks to God and you, those were difficult times... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Watch what you say now, it is now dangerous. ) Will you, the chairman, calm Mr Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18036	Mr. Albianic, you go ahead, he's your inspiration, so it's easy for you now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18037	These were difficult times for a country where civil war occurred on the territory of the former SFRY. There have been murders, lots of bad things. Don't bring us back at that time, don't, because politics has changed here. Security is facing peace, towards some other values of life and work in this region. Are you wondering here, explaining the amendment to God that reads "is deleted", this high-shrewd work to write an amendment that reads "is deleted" is there a college that can explain certain things? I will answer you, there are many universities, there are many people here in the Serbian Parliament who are seriously preparing for the laws, reading them, but there are no images at such a low level to write the amendment "be deleted", because it doesn't mean anything. I heard it here at the assembly pay phone...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18038	Mr. Peric, there's Mr. Albianic here for so long.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18039	... And it's from Tomislav Nikolic, that this way of working comes to the fall of morality. Oh, look at the wonders that those people, where you participated, so-called. Serbian radicals, and destroyed the value system in Serbia completely, and we are now fighting, and this is far more difficult than destroying values built in one country, we are now struggling to make this value system in any way, and it is hard to go, we establish it right in our country. We are also fighting to raise this House's dignity. You want to talk to us about morality? Look at yourself, look back at the past, and you'll see all the moral values that have been destroyed. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: What do you blame us for, you bastard? ) Would you mind warning Mr. Nikolic while I speak, please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18041	Mr. Nikolic, you'll get your word after you replicate, and you, Mr. Albian, continue, you have five minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18042	What can't pass? Please continue to remind the MPs of the SRS who are benefiting while I am behind the assembly pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18043	Mr. Albianic, keep talking and don't pay attention to what anyone throws at you, and MPs take care of their dignity by earning or not earning. Let's leave it to them, and you keep talking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18044	What is very important is that the assembly majority, those parties that make up the ruling coalition in the government, with patience, and not wanting to get into unnecessary low-level polemics, do not want to descend to that level of discussion, try to work for Serbia's well-being, as much as possible, as possible and as quickly as possible. On the other hand, it is clear to all of us that some of us want to do as badly as possible, as slowly as possible, as possible, and go back to some old times. Not that it will not be allowed, but the ruling majority will certainly, as it does and as the results of work in the domestic and international public show, lead the country to progress. It's not easy after everything that's happened to this country, but today these results, no matter what someone in the course of the discussion, explain the amendment that reads, said that so many days have passed since the Performance Study. How can you talk about a feasibility study? A feasibility study, obtained by Serbian citizens, deserves the ruling majority in the state of Serbia. Also, for this ruling majority, it is a significant fact that the last sanctions have been imposed in your time, during your reign. So, trade relations with the United States have finally been established. In that spirit, there will be a ruling and coalition here in the Serbian Parliament. These are the features that G17 plus has, these are the features of civilized, normal people, who want well to the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18045	The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18046	Since Serbia's citizens received a feasibility study, tomatoes, bread, city transport, electricity, gasoline and everything else in Serbia have been collected. I'll tell you right now, you should have turned to Bucky for everything you've talked about in the past few years, turn to Bucky. The sanctions were imposed when Bucky was in power, not when the SRS was in power. You don't even have to make sure you don't piss off whoever you're supposed to be praying to anymore. You're now treading this SPS like what's on the road somewhere where it passes the rail. If so, they deserve it. What are you talking about murders? What are you talking about about the moral crisis, the sanctions? It was all during the time we were in opposition. The sanctions were imposed by America when the SRS was in opposition. How many years have you marked since the sanctions were imposed? When we entered the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 1998. One more thing, how well you rule. Today, I could not attend a meeting in the morning, alone in the villages of Međa and Jasa Tomic, where we Serbian radicals made four houses so modestly from our resources and gave today to the citizens of Međa and Jasa Tomic. Within 45 days of our modest budget, we built four houses and today the children moved into those houses, and we took the modest gifts of the SRS to them. What did you do? What did you do for those that the flood killed two months ago? There's not one in the field, and there will be one. What do you do with the surplus in the budget and what did you use it for? Why didn't you start building those houses right away? Why didn't you move people in today when we moved in with the ones we gave them? Why do you brag that actors, athletes, intellectuals cheer for you? Why isn't he rooting for you people? Why don't the poor and unemployed cheer for you? Why do they root for you who have millions of euros? Because you allow them to make two or three out of a million. Why don't the workers who lost their jobs and the peasants who can't make a living in the field cheerleading you? Why aren't you rooting for millions but dozens? That's the difference between you and me. Why are you accusing us of writing the amendment "expunge yourself"? What would you have done, Mr. Big Coder, in three days' time from the session time to the beginning of a session of 45 draft laws? (Vladimir Homan, from the post: Two and a half months the law is in the process. Did I ask you a question? You grow up like Mitch, then come here for a pay phone. Mica deserved it. Mica's right. He made 10 minutes of speech today and it will remain recorded, Mr Albianic, in the history of Serbian parliamentarianism, that you spoke for 10 minutes. In the eighth time you protected yourself, you started talking to the President of the Assembly, I realized that crisis, it's a creative crisis, and then you came back to your position. How do you not realize that you should not now touch the SRS, now, at this time, because we represent the majority of Serbian citizens. Don't hit on Serbian citizens. It is a poor thing, they are unemployed, they are peasants, but honest people, honest people. They don't have a house on Dedinj paid for 150,000 euros, and it's worth a million-and-a-half. They don't have companies, they don't have anything, they didn't buy anything in privatization. They took their factories in the privatization. Yes, we were in one period of power, at the time NATO couldn't cross Serbia, and now you're here, and now the Americans will start to regulate the traffic in the Terrace. That's the difference between your understanding of responsibility for the state and ours. You may be better experts than us, maybe, but I'd like you to love this country and take care of it, not the European Union. Believe me, the European Union will survive without Serbia. Don't worry about the European Union at all. If they decide to break up, they'll break up, if they decide to stay together, they'll stay together, and you can't influence it, nor can you influence whether we'll be admitted there. (President: Time.) I'm done. That's not what anyone's asking you. The feasibility study is not a study that showed that the country is ready to be a full member of the European Union. It's a study that showed that you want to listen to something else. This study was given to you to hand over Karadzic and Mladic, and you promised it until your holiday, until July 11th, what you mark. Since you failed to complete this in time, the question of this feasibility study is raised. Since you're such a good authority, and this is a recommendation to those who listen and watch what you do, and the most guilty are that you're in power, call the election. I'd recommend it to you from the DSS, so you'll at least have an MP. Now's your time. No matter how many days it is, you'll have fewer and fewer MPs. I strongly recommend that you strengthen your positions because you have worked overtime, taken care of Serbia, worked quickly and efficiently, passed many laws, those laws applied, and worse and worse in Serbia. Don't promise us, we are believers, we believe in the afterlife, but don't promise us that we'll be better off after death. We'd like to live better now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18047	Mr. Nikolic, what I have to answer will be answered when I make up my mind, by the pay phone. That's why I'm signing up for the replica before you called me on Albianic and on yours. I've warned you before, when you're fighting with each other, don't mess with the SPS, because that's not the reason for this fight. Mr. Albianic, go ahead and tell me which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18048	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104, dignity of the National Assembly. I just said that for me and for the party I belong to -- G17 plus is not the usual word to kill, and here you are once again treading the dignity of this home and saying "protect". That reminds me of bad times and bad situations again. I wasn't attacking you at the assembly pay phone. It's a completely incorrect claim. I was only telling the truth here, I was saying what it really is, because you've been attacking the G17 plus all day, for no reason, no facts, no particular reason, because nobody here wanted to debate the members of the law in that way. But since you don't have an explanation, because the amendment says "get deleted", you have to find some other things to tell empty stories all day long. Dear People's MPs, I don't remember the former SRS being in opposition. It may have been called that, but if some 90-year-old regime by DB made one such party, it can't be called the opposition, even if it seemed to be. As for floods and storms that have caused damage in the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia has, as a responsible government, prepared funds and will restore home to people as promised. As for the SRS, either get serious or split up, as you already do in local municipal congregations, so let's see which ones are those who are determined to really make Serbia better, which are those who really want to go into that dark Serbia, or do something third. Do whatever you know, but don't do it at the heart of the Serbian citizens, don't do it at the expense of a responsible job here in the Serbian Parliament that we do it. I'm surprised, Mr. Nikolic, I said something a little bit about morality, but I'm surprised now that you're allowed to call someone who bought an apartment or a house on loan and pays off the earned money neatly their wars, and you got an apartment from the state of Serbia, from taxpayers and citizens of Serbia. How are you not ashamed to hold moral sermons in this way? Think about it carefully. As far as the feasibility study is concerned, as far as Euro-Atlantic integration is concerned, the interest of this country is to be a member of both the EU and the Partnership for Peace, and NATO, if you will. We know that there are certain conditions that the state of Serbia needs and must meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18049	Mr. Albianic, you used this not to hurt the Rules of Procedure, but to replicate. Please, when you talk about others who got legal housing from the state, don't hurt those millions of Serbian citizens who also got apartments from the state. It is the "non-democratic" and "dark" regime that has been and shared millions of apartments in this Serbia. That was the system. So please keep that in mind, too. Mr. Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18050	I volunteered using the right to reply, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, on behalf of the words spoken by Mr Nikolic. In fact, what Mr Nikolic said is incorrectly, for us socialists is offensive and absolutely stately irresponsible. Mr. Nikolic, neither is Mr. Angelkovic nor any of the Socialists guilty of imposing sanctions, to say so. I have to remind you, since this is 2005... Look at the stenogram, you said Bucky was responsible for it and the socialists, which absolutely doesn't stand. (President: Mr. Bradovich, I was at that time, and I am proud to have been an MP here, and do not defend me. I have an obligation to repeat on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, for those who obviously do not know and use those excuses so-called. Democrats. United Nations sanctions were introduced on 31 May 1992. The direct cause was that terrible crime on the street of your Miskina and all that followed at that time and the fabricated report that Serbian forces were responsible for it and, of course, that the SRJ provided assistance. Today - in 2005, in any way binding the state policy of Serbia and the SRJ to those events in BiH, and especially to claim that we are responsible for such a thing, it is incorrect, offensive and deeply against the state. Anyone who doesn't know that can be forgiven. If he's talking with intent, it's very bad. Otherwise, as far as budget rebalancing is concerned, Mr. Todorovic spoke about the SPS' position and will probably still speak, if anyone cares why we decided to support this budget rebalancing. If he's interested in someone we support the government, that's where we stand. If you want to talk to us, then contact us directly, not through the middleman, in this case, a colleague from another parliamentary group. If you talk to them or against them, then contact them directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18051	The replica was answered by Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18052	I'm sorry, I tend to do that when I make a mistake, Mr. Obradovic, for trying to defend the SPS against the attacks of God directed to me and directed to her. Everything Mr. Albianic said about the dark, about the sanctions, about the murders, about the disaster in the country, talked about the time you were in power. I know when we supported you and we didn't, and I stand behind every day in which we supported you and I accept the SRS as a burden of guilt for everything that happened then. I'm not saying we're not to blame for those sanctions at all, but I'm proud that they've imposed sanctions to somehow punish a Serbia who didn't want to give up. That's how I defend that attitude, even though it was dominating what you did. You were in the government, we weren't, but I defend that attitude, and I defend the Rambouje decision. There was no black opposition then from us, but I'm defending that we didn't accept in Rambouille, which is now being accepted by DOS. All I care about is whether it really was a completely wrong policy? Do you now accept everything that was opposed to your politics while you were in power? Is it true that so many mistakes were made while you were in power? Was it a mistake to defend the Serbs? Was it a mistake that we didn't give NATO a pact to walk Serbia however it wanted and whenever it wanted. If it was a mistake, I'm not giving up that it was the right thing to do, and if it wasn't a mistake, how come you're supporting the government that's making that mistake right now? That's all I care about and I don't touch you, you call us at the meetings you have. It may be your way, it doesn't interest me, I'm just asking you, did you honestly believe in what you were doing while you were in power or believe in what these are doing now in power. These are two completely different political, economic, social and national policies, completely different. I trusted what was done then, and I don't trust what is now being done. It's about the attempt and what I mentioned to you, Mr. Angelkovic, I mentioned positively. What's he got to look at me for 1990-1991, and you're sitting behind his back and giving him your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18053	Mr. Nikolic, you know I've been sitting here since 1990, and you've been sitting here since 1992, so we know what's been going on in this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18054	If I'd known you'd be giving your word when these came to power, I'd have hung myself before I could wait that time for Zoran Angelkovic to give his word to those in power. He who cares about the dignity of the National Assembly must not say that one party, and this time the SRS, has founded state security, because it is insolent, unique only to creatures at the low limit of reason. I never said that about any party, I never sued any of you to cooperate with national security. The day-to-day, when you've all combed all the files, I accept that you publish all the files and I say, well, what happens there is true for me, it's true for you, even though you deleted your files, publish them, and I'll say it, they didn't cooperate with national security. But to tell the radicals that they were founded by national security, it's a sign that Mr. Albianic has information on what it says in the archives of national security. If he has them, then they should be available to the public, they should be transparent, because Mr. Albianic is not the BIA chief. He's an MP. How come one MP of BIA's paperwork, and I guarantee you with the life of all of us that it doesn't write anywhere, or that it was possible. That's what you do here. One more thing to tell you, the apartment I got from the state paid 200,000 marks. Stop lying. I got it, says Mr. Angelkovic, your coalition partner, I got it under the law, as well as hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens. I was Deputy Prime Minister, to inform you about it, so as far as Jovo is concerned, it's an old Latin saying, I'm not going to teach you. That's the apartment I paid for 200,000 marks. To get that money, I had to sell that apartment. Yes, it is. That's how it works, young sir. Don't call me because I can be your dad, and I'm not your dad, because my kids are raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18055	I see you all, I just have to give myself a line first, because Mr. Albianic and Mr. Nikolic have called me several times and what I will do. Mr. Vlahovic, in his Rules of Procedure, writes very precisely that he has the right to give the presidency his word, to come and give the speech, and to return and to continue the presidency. That's not controversial. A few things. On many occasions, I have also warned representatives of the SRS and the SPS, when they are trying some of their internal issues, homelyly possibly, because they are socializing, to discuss and not to involve the SPS. When they mix, they mix with the truth. It is true, I mentioned apartments, but when you talk about apartments, gentlemen, then raise the question of how many apartments are now divided at Belgrade airport. How many apartments have been divided into public enterprises for the last year. How many apartments were divided in the previous four years of government. Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18058	When it comes to the SPS, that no one cares about the SPS programme, we are not ashamed of what the communists did, let alone the Socialists. They were doing it. Yeah, we're not ashamed of what those millions of apartments shared, which they hired over three million people, which was free schooling, which was over three and a half million children, whether they were workers or peasants, regardless of their social background, if they knew how smart they were. If someone did something out of that belief and did some evil as an individual, he would answer for it and answer for it. All these 15 years here as an MP, everything I've done, I've been doing out of conviction. In fact, 14 years, I haven't been for a year, Mr. Nikolic 13. When we disagreed and we argued here for months and then we had different political views. We know exactly who we were in power with and who supported us. For the sake of truth, for the sake of history and in order not to keep opening it, we ourselves were in power as SPS until 1992, and from 1992 to 1993 minority support of the SRS, and since 1993 everyone has been with us in power, both the SPO, and the SRS and... (Tomislav Nikolic: It is not true. ) Since it is not true, Mr. Nikolic, you were together Deputy Prime Minister with Mr. Draskovic, as you know. And New Democracy, and part of the Democratic Party exactly, Mr Radulovic, who until that day was the vice president of the DS, so Mr Perisic, then Djukic, Minister for Small Enterprises, etc. So, you were all with us, except for the ones that formed afterwards, because then they couldn't be with us because they didn't exist. You were all with us at the time. I remind you, I want those who speak of that time as dark weather to finally open that tunnel to us and show us the light from that tunnel, to have three million employees again and that they can all get back to school and heal like they used to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18059	Thank you, Mr. Angelkovic. Fortunately, the state shared apartments, I hope, not parties, and that's how it's going to be in the future. According to Article 98(2), to carry out consultations and to see who was there, a break until 19.05. Thank you. [[After breaks – 19,10]] We're continuing our work. On the occasion of the amendment, MP Jovan Todorovic appeared. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18061	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as you know, in these two days I have been an authorised representative of the SPS for these two points of the agenda: Amendments to the law on the budgetary system and to the draft budget rebalancing. If I understand correctly, at this point, today we are discussing an amendment to article 39 relating to article 74 of this law. I don't know if it's 39th or 35th.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18062	Please, it's about article 35. It's "expect," just that member of the previous law you were talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18063	I'm trying to get the debate back on track, first of all, because I've heard a few objections that don't stand, especially when it comes to the SPS to the government and according to the support of some laws in this National Assembly. I remind you and the public, we have decided to support the ruling majority at the time when Serbia did not have the president of the Assembly, the president of the Republic, when it had the DOS government in power. Our biggest motive, at that point, was that Zivkovic's government went into history, as they said they were the best government in history, so it would be their turn to go into history. Indeed, I do not see the right to be resented by someone, for, along with us, in that previous term, someone very harshly, argumentably and vigorously criticised that government and sought early elections. We were at that job together. We had the election, we had the result of the election as it was. We have determined to support the new government for Serbia's sake, because Serbia without institutions and presidents, the president of the Assembly and the government, without Zivkovic and DOS ministers, would not be a state. That was our motive. That's what our organs have made the right decisions, and I don't see why anyone would be making any comments about it right now. The explanation that someone is defending us from someone I don't think is politically correct. I would remind you of how they used to say, "Beware of the Spartans and when they bring you gifts." (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: E, not so. E, it is. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: E, yes, it is. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18064	Please, without throwing away, it's about the Danes, it's about the lapus. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18065	Take care of the Danites as Toma Nikolic throws it to me. And I am telling our socialists, beware of the radicals when they support you. I have to, because there's no need to talk about it this way. I have the impression that you're fighting for the Socialists to the last SPS voter. Now let me explain why we supported these two laws. Djelic's budget system law was not supported because he was worse than this. You know he was worse than this. All the solutions proposed in this law, except for the two exceptions that I spoke about today in the afternoon debate, are better than was present in that finance minister's proposal, Mr Djelic. I don't have any dilemmas here. I remind you, who criticises every provision of this law, of the following facts. You say you don't need a vault. I remind you, the vault existed at the time of the SFRY as a financial institution. We also talked about it to Mr. Djelic when he mentioned it as a historic turning point, as some historic event, as something new in finance. It's true, we had a SDK, a very efficient system that we were protecting. He was replaced by the Public Payments Authority. Today we have a rational proposal, in my opinion, because I view it primarily professionally, the unification of two administrations -- the Treasury and the Public Payments Administration, all with the aim of performing some financial functions, which concern, above all, the balance sheeting of public spending in the Republic of Serbia. What's so controversial about that? We can now look for hair in the egg, propose some amendments, etc. I don't mind the political attitude to delete some of the provisions of this law. But what's the blame here for supporting something that's certainly better than it's ever been before? You resent us for supporting the Budget Rebalancing Proposal. What should we, the Socialists, say - no, we are opposed to single out an additional 12.5 billion dinars based on work for farmers' pensions 2.5 billion; to increase many other positions in this budget, to achieve a budgetary balance that has not been objectively present so far. Why would we, as socialists, be against it? You're not against it either, but if you vote against the budget in general, you are, in fact, against it. Since you're throwing me away, Mr. Nikolic, the Labour Act. I could ask you, uh, the Act of Partisans and Chetniks? We were for partisans, you were for Chetniks, so what now. That's your political attitude. Our attitude was this. There are no dilemmas. Which is why you just resent us. We're not a subsidiary of the SRS, so we have to respect what you, in every situation, think. We're not anybody's exposure. We're a state-of-the-art party. We were born earlier than you. We've experienced all the burdens of power and together with you, you've never been against that SPS authority and I don't see why you're against the SPS today when you're talking about this, I mean very high-quality, bill proposals in the Assembly. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: Who chose Vuk Draskovic? ) It is known exactly who chose Vuk Draskovic, but it is known who you were with in the government. That's what Mr. Angelkovic told you. You were in the government when Draskovic was in the government, etc. Politics is something that can't be nailed. There are always partners, interests. There are interests of people, citizens, political parties. When these interests are found in one place, then we are certainly right when we decide to support a government that is certainly, based on these years and a half of the work, better than the one that was established at the head with Zivkovic and DOS ministers. So that's the point. I don't see why you honor us, you resent us. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Come now for the amendment. ) In Article 74, I purposely appeal to him, there are criminal provisions. Nowhere does it say that it is punishable for the Socialists to support some law in the National Assembly. What are you asking, for example, for such a member to be erased? Isn't that right, Mr. Nikolic? Let's be serious, let's talk about this, just like it does to serious people, as it does to the MPs. When it comes to the vault, says Tomislav Nikolic -- according to the amendment, he will then replicate to me, and I am sure that when he came out for the pay phone, at that point he had no idea where we were when it came to the debate on amendments, but he had a need to address the public. Yes, it is commendable, he says, we made four houses in Yashi Tomic. I say hello, because we socialists still don't have as much money as the SRS, so we can build a house out of our resources. But that's why there's a part of the funds in the republican budget that we've supported, which will be set aside and set aside for the purpose of repairing those who have lost their homes. So it's not a matter of any political party, it's a disaster and tragedy, which happened to people in the field there and I regret what happened to them, but I don't want to politically exploit some things, because we're not at this point in the same financial and material possibilities that we're doing as we do on the ground. As you know, political parties are also funded from the republican budget. The Serbian radicals have more money than the Socialists, it's the law, I have nothing against it, and then let them separate some of the funds, and I have nothing against it. I don't see why we should argue on that subject here right now. I don't see that as a problem. (Natasa Jovanovic throws out of the O.R. And you should have more MPs, that was the voter's will. When there are other choices...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18066	Please, Mr. Todorovic, you have no reason to talk to the MPs because we are talking about the amendment. I also ask the MPs not to receive, to allow the MP to address the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Todorovics.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18067	And you were talking about the amendment and everything exactly. Now we're going to see Article 35. (President: It's okay, Article 35 is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Todorovic. ) Article 35, just to remind you, the content of that Article 35 in this law, yes, Article 35, the last position has been changed and it is said - the obligations made by the direct or indirect beneficiary of the budget must correspond to the appraisal granted for that purpose to that user for the financial year. Is that the last attitude in article 35 is changing. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Sorry, don't be angry, it's not that. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18069	Mr. Todorovic, you are pushing for the amendment to be accepted or not accepted. I think that'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18070	Of course, Mr. President, I cannot accept this amendment to be accepted, or deleted. Amendment to Article 35 relating to Article 73g. (Natasa Jovanovic, from the place: It is not true) So what were you talking about, Miss Jovanovic? You spoke of that amendment, of article 73g. Anyway, I'm against accepting that amendment, especially since you had an explanation for what you had. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: What amendment? ) of this amendment to Article 35. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18071	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 35? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18072	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36 relating to Article 73. In this article, one part of the text is deleted, "the funds for the work of the Public Payments Authority are provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget", and below goes with a new position -- "the funds for the work of the Treasury Authority can also be provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is then said: "For professional education, training and training of employees, design, construction and maintenance of the information system, the acquisition of equipment for work, construction and purchase of business space and the stimulating remuneration of staff at the Treasury Office is part of other original revenues, established by the financial plan of the Management. Organisational units of the Treasury Administration may assume material obligations within the limits of the funds set out in the financial plan. "The question arises where will this money be spent? Here we said - they can for professional education, training, improvement, design, construction and maintenance of the information system, supply of equipment for work, etc. Which member regulates the admission of staff to the Treasury Office? These receipts have so far been regulated by Article 73z, but in Article 35, which has been here so far in the debate, this great encrypted member of the 35th says - the title above Article 73z and Article 73z are deleted. It's no big deal when a MP writes in an amendment to delete something, but there's a coded political party running the government of the Republic of Serbia saying it's being deleted. Now, where's the happy one to explain this article 35? A bill of law? What did article 35 delete? Let's read that too. "Employment of the Public Payments Administration shall be subject to regulations governing state administrations, working relations and salaries in state bodies, as well as regulations in the areas of health, pension and disability insurance, if this law is not otherwise prescribed. "By what law will they now receive employees of the Treasury Department? What was so disturbing about this 73z article that it had to be deleted? If anyone looks at the Republic of Serbia's budget and looks at the Public Payments Authority's item, because it will now only be called a vault differently, they will see that 90% of the huge funds have been allocated to the paying of employees working in the administration. The government's authority is under the direct control of the finance ministry. By this law, we separate one government body from all other laws. Among other things, the law that regulates the reception of employees in the authorities of the state administration. The same law regulates also admissions to local self-government and public enterprises, where local self-government is the founder. The same minister who proposed this law in terms of rationalising the spending on salaries threatens local self-government to reduce the number of employees by 10%, both in public enterprises and in the municipal administration, in every form of local self-government. Otherwise, they'll cut off their funds, transfer funds and funds that they get through the vault. So that now one organ that is under his direct command, because otherwise it cannot be said, could be excluded from the law, which regulates that area, so that people who work there can have salaries of 150, 200, 300, 400,000, as anyone likes, as the minister wakes up, so he says, this month will be your salary of 300,000, next month 250,000, and then 350,000, etc. What kind of rationalization are we talking about here? What kind of savings are you talking about? Article 73g of the law says - the Treasury Administration is charging compensation for services performed by public payments. Can local self-government, can public enterprises decide which payment management will be cheaper for them? No, it is the minister who prescribes compensation for public payments and again of the funds collected by taxes paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia that generates some false income so that they can pay the employees of the Public Payments Authority. Then someone shows up at this pay phone and says, "We're taking you to Europe, so you're introducing taxes on taxes." Europe doesn't know that. She doesn't have a state apparatus like this. It's much more efficient and much cheaper, but it's important that we hire some of our party colleagues here. You, while you are in power, and to provide them with enormously high wages. Now you're talking here about how dark it was. What darkness are you talking about? What's this? One authority of the administration is exempt, required by this assembly to exclude one authority of the administration, from applying the law to that authority of the administration. What's that? Is that lawlessness? It's illegal, it's nothing else. There's not even a sublegal act. There is not even a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Simply, the Assembly says about you and the law no longer applies. And who suggested it? Minister Dinkic and no one else. And then you're surprised someone tells you he's above the law. Yes, it is, because you're giving it to him that you support here in this congregation. It's stronger than the law, and above the law, the monarch, the despot, however you like, it is, because it's the law you've authorized it to do so. You can't do anything to him, because you simply accepted that he writes you laws, and then you're surprised, and you'll be particularly surprised when there are elections, just because you supported him, how many votes you're going to count. Much less than he has millions of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18073	The word is by MP Zoran Krasic, by amendment to Article 36.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18074	Unlike some experts who do not know what law is on the agenda, as the representatives of the SRS know, and they have been very reasoned to criticise this draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. As Mr. Arsic said, Article 36. The bill refers to the 73rd, where the first position is changed, so it reads: "The funds for the work of the Treasury Administration can also be provided in the Republic's budget. "As security is provided in another way, but it is possible in the budget as well. This second way is the primary method of Article 73g and that was Article 34. Proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act, where correction was also carried out in the first place. So instead of - the Public Payments Administration can provide other financial services, it is now changed so it is written - the Treasury Administration is charging compensation for public payment services, and then this supplement comes from the original text - and can provide other financial other services and perform other transactions in accordance with the contract on which they obtain revenue. If it is taken into account that the Treasury Department is charging a service fee, it is a commission similar to the commission charged by the SDK, and since it is now the Treasury Administration, the question arises, who pays the fee. It is paid by direct beneficiaries of budget funds. Who are they paying? The beneficiary of the budget. When is the ministry supposed to carry out its payment order through the Treasury Authority to pay an adequate fee and to whom? Control the vault. The Treasury Administration is an administrative organisation within the Ministry of Finance, so a closed circle. Since there is probably not enough resources to be provided here on the basis of compensation, a specific item in the budget is needed, because this means that what is changed by Article 36 – the funds for the work of the Treasury Authority can also be provided in the budget of the Republic. So everything has the character of public income. So, and what the Treasury Department charges, that fee, that's your public income, and what the Treasury gets out of the budget is public expenditure. Very simple, very simple. Because – what is worth, there is now no more socialist, well, someone will tell Jovi I guess, but there is Zarko, well, inform Jovo Todorovic, because he seems a little bit understood about these things in your MP group – there is a big difference between the SRJ vaults at the time of the SDK Yugoslavia, just slowly, just you calm down, I will explain to you both by names and last names, and by the names of associations, or institutions. You can also ask that of your Ilic, who was director of SDK, you can ask John Zebić, who led the Ministry of Finance, later you can ask those people who later did those jobs, because then there was a vault, but it wasn't a bank. So there was a vault that would combinedly monitor all payments that go through the SRJ budget, but payments were realised by the SDK and the vault was involved in SDK's business. This situation can't be compared today, and that's what it's all about. Today, this bill brings together something that is the accounting part, where accounts and records are kept, with an institution that performs direct payment operations, and that is the difference. It is now networked into a business system, literally, through an internal bank of the Government of Serbia, where there is no insight, can be seen by any of the beneficiaries of budget funds, indirect beneficiaries of budget funds, but there is no public. There is a possible system of accounts and sub-accounts, a lot of things to be done with the funds of the Republic of Serbia's budget, and I need to draw your attention to that. And take this information that's given under the law, that's the next item on the agenda. You saw for yourself, namely, for the first six months 189 billion dinars have been charged, the income of the Republic of Serbia's budget has been spent 188 and there are many unmistakable commitments, and when someone has absolute control over these funds, both in terms of the bank and in terms of the one who pays, and who spends, and who manipulates these funds, then anything is possible. Believe me, these are the most stable funds. It is a very small degree of uncertainty that these funds will be paid. If any doubt arises or a problem arises for the ongoing financing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, the state has mechanisms. The mechanism is the tax administration, the customs administration, the MUP, mechanisms of the state can be put in motion to always fill the budget and always to carry out maximum control of how the budget is spent and to make a difference with which to capitalise, as stated here in many provisions, so that the right is given to even local authorities, or individuals, even individuals, is given. In one of the previous members, we have commented, the finance minister can self-initiately free funds, for which he assesses that they are free in the budget, to place, and after he has completed that placement, or investment, because it is used as the right term, informs the government what he has done. Look, please, someone with billions can afford to say, I'll buy this, I'll buy that. I'll buy a Czech debt. You'll hear about the Czech debt. Which he did not buy when he was cheap, because of that Bozidar Djelic, but he was bought when he jumped the value and that's the danger behind this bill. Then someone comes out and says, "There's no expert analysis here, there's no expert examination." Someone's being irritated by what's written here -- it's being erased, and what else is being done with this provision that you're proposing rather than being erased and forgotten as if it never existed in the proposal. Out of the way, people, look what's done. The state finances will be destroyed. This is about destroying state finances. Who's going to control that finance minister? No one lives, you all have some awe of him and some trust. No company will be able to raise their heads tomorrow if they object to him. You remember the fear of such laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18075	Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Ambassador Milorad Mircic has submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18076	Although, ladies and gentlemen, we have said the essence several times, it is still implementing that it is not said enough, so I must say one more time. Coming to power, Mladjan Dinkic shut down the SDK, or Payment Service, or whatever it was called. The reason you saw a few months after that – and we talked about this speaker that the National Savings Centre was created, that the initial capital of that National Savings Bank was created from the deposited funds of the Republic of Serbia to the Euroaxis Bank, so it was returned, etc. and who are the shareholders of the National Savings Centre – when the National Savings Bank took over the entire infrastructure of the former SDK. So the building, part of the employees, went straight to the street, only part of the employees took over, the entire system computerized, and from nothing became one of the stronger banks, and in order for it to continue to work properly, then you remember that the old foreign savings had to go through it, not through other banks. Today, with this law, Minister Dinkic is making a new SDK, but he is making it on ice. Everything the state of Serbia had in buildings, in infrastructure, in personnel, does not exist. They'll fill it in, of course, with personnel similar, they don't have to be professional, but they have to be similar, they have to have a membership card of a particular political party. On Article 37, Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic submitted an amendment and asked for that member to be deleted, and Article 37 reads, "After Article 73, the title above the member and Article 73j is added." The specificity of Mladjan Dinkic is that next to the numbers for the members starts the alphabet from a, and ends with the alphabet and goes with the alphabet and moves on to the next number, etc. We have a bunch of members that basically mean nothing. What's the reason? If it were to become more crowded and not to see the basic ambition of Mladjan Dinkic, or the encrypted group, not only Mladjan Dinkic, because he can't do anything without his dad, it's mostly these two, or this three without the helm, party president, finance minister, governor, pardon the four, but I don't want to mention this fourth. The vault is descending on local authority. What the vault will do for the local government was SDK. Very successfully in a fraction of a second you could get all the information and of course it was about that commission that MP Zoran Krasic spoke about, it was about the fact that it was a much smaller commission than the vault would certainly charge. What's much more dangerous, and it's hiding behind this, it's 73k. So half the alphabet and the entire alphabet spent on this article 73. "Unless the local authorities provide the ministry with reports and acts in accordance with this law, the minister may suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic's budget until the time the requested reports are delivered. "Mladjan Dinkic takes charge that neither the emperor nor the absolute ruler has. They'll literally decide whether someone in the local self-government, no matter what they do, gets paid or not. Depending on whether Mladjan Dinkic stood up on his left leg, employed by one of the local self-governments, and this could also be the city of Belgrade, which has two and a half million inhabitants, will be able to function, will be city traffic, will be paid or Dinkic when he returns, if he returns from Japan now that he is gone, will be in a mood, then the money will not be. I suggest that Mladjan Dinkic go to Japan, see how it works there, but I suggest he not come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18077	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18078	We're lucky the president's the only one following these amendments, so it's constantly under way. You see, the amendment to Article 37 has been submitted to simply erase this. You've defined it as the local government vault. Now this need has arisen, and in the existing law it was defined as the vault and the jurisdiction of the vault, whether it's the Republic or local government, but now there's a need to distinguish it. Why? For the simple reason why it would not be good for the local government vault to be in the vault of the Republic, or the Treasury. To see how some things end here unencumberedly, unprofessionally and wrongly. In Article 25. The draft law on amendments and additions, as regards Article 73, remains that the Treasury Administration, among other things, performs the following tasks - manages the debt covered by: (1) the management of new negotiations and loan agreements; why would the Treasury Authority do so? (2) keeping records of debts; why would the Treasury Authority do so? (3) Management of credit-based inflows; why would the Treasury Authority do so? Last week you made the Public Debt Administration, you put it all in order to manage public debt by that administration, and you said that the ministry must be informed, the ministry participates in the negotiations, the conclusion of the agreement, etc. I don't know if this is what different sectors at the finance ministry do. Do you talk and communicate with each other? Did Mladjan Dinkic call a college sometime and say, "Please, what have you done?" Whether it corresponds with each other or it's nebulosis. You see, experts, you've messed everything up, you don't know anything. Now we come to this vault of local authorities. I was just reading at the Treasury Department about those employee salaries. No one knew how to get out and say, "No Albianic," he's the biggest expert. You see, in the vault of the local government what you wrote, what is the jurisdiction of the local government vault. It's those five-six people in the municipality who used to be in the finance secretariat, in the finance department, in the accounting department, write down some data on how much of the budget items are downloaded, how much is charged, etc. Look what you've done to them now. The local government vault manages liquidity. That's about what you wrote about the Republic Treasury Administration managing liquidity. So what's the finance minister for? It's his authority. You're the one who messed up here. He says -- managing financial resources regarding local government vaults; debt management covering debt management of borrowing negotiations. The local government vault manages debt and debt, and exists at the level of the Republic of the Public Debt Administration. You've got it all wrong. Let's move on, under four, and then subpoint one - payment processing and receiving records. What kind of receipts, what is that? Payment of public revenue or what, what do you mean? There's a lot going on. He says, keeping business books, financial reporting, preparing and drawing up all reports and drawing up the local government budget's final account, controlling expenditure covering process management, monitoring the movement of profit mass in public enterprises at the level of that vault and delivering reports to the ministry. You've messed everything up, absolutely everything, and analysis, and synthetics, and payment, and analysis, and reports, and who's the employer, who's the executioner, you've messed everything up. Do you have anyone at the Ministry of Finance who used to do this job in his life? This job requires a man for five to ten years to do this job directly, to understand what it's all about, and only after seven or eight years can he be the head of a department and be involved. If you brought this "expert" when Junior came as finance minister, then this doesn't matter. This is below the level of seminar work. Don't fool us with any nebuloses. There are people here who used to be in power, who for 12, 13, 15 years have been professionally involved in politics and they can't watch as the state, apparently the public, with the presence of a somehow concluded majority, of which the largest coalition partner is silent, doesn't care, he doesn't care, counts that this storm will pass, everything will end, everything will be fine, not a lot of people will punish them etc. You've got the pots all messed up. You have to go either to the back row of this National Assembly to get down a little bit on the ground, but as you do, you probably won't even enter the building. They barely got into the building - 22, they were hanging out there in Vojvodina, the whole of Raška was voting for fraud, etc., so they barely managed to get in. You'll go far worse than they do, because here it exudes ignorance, and the ignorance that is presented by "expert" knowledge of the state destroys the state. It's much easier and more natural to say -- we don't know this job, let some people who did this come to help us finish this job, not to ruin it. But you're using media manipulations: surpluses, deficits, all kinds of talk, all sorts of nebulosis, and you don't know how to solve things. Of course your system isn't working. You had the whole system conceived to depend on one man's will. As soon as there's an expert debate, he's gone, "fire." You see, for months now, as soon as the radicals start with the amendments and start to analyze the point of analysis, he's gone, he's lost, he's left some people at the Ministry of Finance, they're silent, they're recording what's being said here, the younger one's pulling it up, throwing it away, he's not interested, it's important that there's been a storm. It can't be like that. You could have done that in May of last year, you could have done that in September, and in July of 2005, you couldn't, you were read as a bumblebee. You know what you want. You want to end up in control, you want to be the ones who give life and death in Serbia. With these things, you from G17 plus are able to raise the company, destroy the company. You're capable of anything and everything. The SRS won't let you, remember. That's why we go out and talk about every amendment, if it takes 15-20 minutes, to warn those who do business, and those who do insurance, and those who do banking work, and citizens, and peasants, all to warn about what's behind your intervention. This is so rude. This is against the people and against the state. You say the sanctions have been lifted. They're not off, there's one big sanction left, and that's G17 plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18079	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18080	Dear People's MPs, of course, I use the right to replicate the party G17 plus and these uglyly used words "right to life and death". I'm afraid the G17 plus party doesn't beat that voice. They decided on the right to life and death of another party in the earlier period. I'll take the chance to say what's being said today at the expense of the G17 plus party, including this one. Of course everything is, to say the least, incorrect. Also, I will take the opportunity to answer the question of what the government has done about flooded areas, because some have boasted that they built two houses, I'm sorry, four houses. The government has so far built 56 houses in Yashi Tomic. These houses are in the final phase of construction, and there are 156 houses in Jasa Tomic. 15 houses were built in Međa, and 15 other houses were built. All these houses are waiting for another 300 million from budget rebalancing. So if we adopt budget rebalancing faster and we don't have this kind of obstruction in the Assembly, the houses in Jasa Tomic will be built faster. I call upon all MPs to stand up for it. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, it has already transferred 200 million dinars to the agricultural damage account and is also waiting for a rebalancing of another 270 million to be transferred to these accounts, not counting on what farmers have received and the possibility of returning the loans they have received with a delayed deadline. So the government did what it promised and all the houses would be finished. It's not about four houses, it's about houses that will solve the problems of all those who have been threatened by floods. But let's go back to G17 plus and the right to the replica I want to use. You really heard everything today about G17 plus. We waited patiently because we wanted to speed up the debate and allow the rebalancing to be brought. But we really won't tolerate infinity. I want to be absolutely clear about this. As for all the insinuations on G17 plus ratings, I'll repeat what I said yesterday. G17 plus is not on the political scene to get a political rating, as some, and to live well on that political rating, without the willingness to take responsibility for solving problems in the country. G17 plus solves problems in this country, sometimes at the cost of his rating. But the G17 rating plus it's not so low, it's measured in the election. We've won the citizens' trust in the elections as much as we've won, there's enough of us in this assembly to influence us. That's what the fact is. How it's going to be in the next election, we'll see. I told you that the local community council elections were held recently in Leskovac. You've made a point that it's people, not strangers. Well, it's about people. That's what we talk about all the time. G17 plus has the best people and we showed that in the local community election. Do you want some examples? In Leskovec, we received 14% of citizens' support. In my local community, which happens to belong to your MP from Leskovec, I am sorry that he is not present right now, of the 616 voters who went out, the candidate of the G17 plus won 130 votes, and the SRS candidate 30. So we got 20% in that local community, and you got 5%. It's all variable, it's possible it's going to be different. You're talking about villages, people in villages don't support G17 plus. In a village near Leskovec, which is not small, which is one of the largest villages, I will say the name, called Velika Trnjana, we received 70% of the support of the citizens of that village. Here, that's all classified data, you can check it out and talk about it further. There have also been other things heard that are at the border, for me as an expert, on the edge of common sense, I must say. I heard that story about scientology the first time I came to this congregation, and as an expert, I was seriously concerned about some people's mental health here. But I quickly reduced that concern, because psychopathology says this: when someone tells enormous lies and believes in them, then he's sick, but when someone tells big lies and doesn't believe in them, he's healthy. I know you're healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18081	National MP Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18082	You just didn't say more naturally, and it's more natural to say: bring this peasant from Leskovec to lead the G17 plus, because he enjoys the trust of his constituents and neighbors, and you who run the G17 plus, you don't enjoy it. That's all you need. Ma'am, get the bangs out of your eyes. There was a minister in Tsar Russia and his name was Podkin. When the emperor traveled somewhere, everywhere he passed by he saw magnificent buildings, prosperity, flowers on the windows. He didn't know that Podkin passed before he did, and he just picked up the models. So do you. Go to Jasa Tomic and Medi. Since I didn't see those buildings today, and you said over 250 there were. How come no peasant in the camera says you build buildings, someone says no one's built anything yet in Yashi Tomic and Međi. No one. Those buildings are gone, ma'am. I was there today. When were you? I claim they're gone, and you say they're gone. Either you change your last name to Podkin or I do, but someone has to change their last name, don't be deceived by the government. You say now, there's only so much left, 300 million. Do you know how many houses this is? It's a two-way house. How much will be done when it's 200. Do you understand what this is about? Is it supposed to be you building those houses at all or is that Velja Ilic going forward and following trucks? Do you know what people say: where is this guy from Covin? And Velya came, and the trucks came, and the veil turned, and the trucks went, and they unloaded them, and they unloaded the goods which they had prepared. This is serious stuff. Don't underestimate our gesture. Four is a lot more than zero, and four of what we have is a lot. You have the state budget. Here are 81 MPs of the SRS will raise their hands and suggest you immediately make 45 days' worth of 500 houses, as long as it takes in Yashi Tomic and Međa, and to pay out of the budget, we raise our hands for it. That doesn't occur to you. You'll never suggest it. The ministers will tell you how they'll make it. It's been a construction season. Look at the weather outside. Today 35 degrees, and tomorrow 12 degrees, who will enter your foundations now. Nor do you know when the summer will end, when the autumn and winter will begin. You know how many days, 60 days of construction season, it's been since the flood. You're talking about the houses that were built. How come they're not in the field? Where are they? Virtual? Is that a new science, scientology? Don't think it's not your Labus or any others who aren't members of that cult. Yes, ma'am. You accused us here of being a cult. Radicals, he says, have all forms of sect and that's what the cult expert said. Everything, she says, showing up, hanging out, we're all like some kind of sect. What kind of sect is that? It was seen in Bratunac. Bratunc saw what they were doing for the Serbian people, regardless of whether it was from Serbia or outside Serbia. I wish you could have gone there and experienced what the representatives of the SRS had experienced. When you talk about responsibility for running the country and taking points, what do you think, that the Socialists and radicals didn't know that they would lose the next election if they defended Kosovo and Metohija. We knew. We knew that. Did one of us kneel? Yes, Vuk Draskovic, after a month of defense retreated. Did one of us get down on that? You now see at your disposal a great sacrifice of G17 and says we are aware that we are making a great sacrifice, and only with money you have. You only have the money. What a sacrifice that is. I'll ask you when there's a verification of the agreement with NATO on how you're going to defend the country. I don't know if you've read it at all. If you haven't read it, did they ask you to comment? If you were asked, how did you comment on this agreement with NATO? Did you compliment him on the Priory? Do you know that the Constitution has been broken and the agreement says it will apply from the date of verification, but it applies from the date of signing to the verification. Is there a country in the world that can do such a thing without the Assembly, without MPs or MPs from Serbia-Montenegro. The easiest thing to do is sit around all day writing what you'd say about radicals. It's the easiest thing to brag about. You were given a huge budget in your hands, unimaginable, just two years ago an unimaginable budget. It makes you feel whatever you want and you keep complaining about how you're putting up with the victims. Is there anyone who has the money and complains about how he's putting up with the victims? The victims are submitted by other coalition partners, and you don't talk about the victims.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18083	Is there anyone else reporting on the amendment to Article 37? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18084	By amendment to Article 38, we ask that this member be deleted, and now some experts are considering why it is requested. And what does the Government propose to Article 38? It proposes a new member of 73k with the title - Temporary suspension of the transfer of funds. These experts, who have been here since the beginning, remember that such a similar member exists somewhere at the beginning of this law, where the minister was also authorized to deny the transfer of funds, then missing the word - transfer, rather than the execution of funds, and referring to the transferred funds. Here is the same member again and says this: "If the competent authority of the local government (and refers to local government) does not deliver reports and acts to the Ministry in accordance with this law, the minister may suspend the transfer of funds from the Republic's budget until the time of the submission of the requested reports and acts. "So, if the local government doesn't deliver a report, the minister needs a report, some local government authority is late or not delivering a report, the minister suspends the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, which according to one of these appraisals and some economic classification belongs to a certain local government, only because of the report. Is it possible that because of one piece of paper, which the minister interprets as a disrespect for the ministry and its size, someone can suspend funds from local authorities and question many of the functions of local self-government that concern citizens. Can one man say, since you have not delivered the report to me, I am applying this from Article 73k, suspending further payment of the transfer funds, nothing from the Republic of Serbia's budget can go towards the local government. Well, wait, I need pay, so I need this and other commitments, it's piled up; I don't care, you haven't delivered me a report. Who can put that in the law? It's just someone who's moaning. Durko. Injured vanity. A small man who imagined himself to be a huge, magnificent man, His Majesty the Minister of Finance. You didn't write a miracle when a report is brought in, you must enter the office on your knees and say, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, here's a report, and now let go of what belongs to us under the law. I know, you experts can only think of it, you're such experts. Of course he can't stand this. Why would this stand when the government, the Ministry, has all the leverage of the government, has all possible controls, every possible inspection, can also control the vault of local authorities, and the business of local authorities, and the work of local authorities and dedicated use of funds. You have so many and so many organs that can do it. Why would you insist on humble adoption, this is about humbly passing the report, not on our own need. This is how you threaten the local government if it is unworthy, it does not express respect for His Majesty. The entire municipality can be blocked, why not say - and the whole city, for the transfer funds planned and approved in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Tell me, please, which was a special profession needed to make a bright mind come up with a member like this. It's just paranoia that can give birth. This can only be paranoia. Here, at first, I think it was Article 7, it is said, "If the implementation of funds transferred from the Republic's budget threatens the implementation of the Constitution and the special laws of the established obligations of the Republic, the minister may temporarily suspend funds to other levels of government, etc." So it can do this, too, because of the lack of a simple report. And all levers of government at the level of the Republic and the Ministry of Finance. This can't stand in the law. If you have prescribed - unless a report has been delivered, it is an offence, so the responsible person in the local authorities will be punished for the offence, because there must be some adverse consequences, a serious consequence, that it would be a violation, etc. Not every administrative non-discipline is a violation, because violations are a violation of the public order. What is the view of a public disorder when not everyone in the system of government communicates with one another? So it's just the sowing of fear and, apparently, the paranoid structure of a person who tends to be such a huge finance minister, that everything around it revolves, and he doesn't even know what a surplus poor guy is. He invented the deficit when making the budget, now virtually creating some surplus, and failed to meet the budget's commitments to direct and indirect users. Then he admits, well, yes, we haven't fulfilled our obligations, but we'll have a surplus. And he's still got the surplus. It determines how he'll be used. That sick person can work. I don't know who can defend this? Who can defend this behavior? He's got to report if there's no report, end of story. That local government ended up with the Republic's budget, they won't get a dime. What are the consequences? Remember, what are transfer funds? What are they given to the local authorities for? What's with all the resources to make it work at the bar? Is it more responsible that it should work, or one report, which may be unnecessary, because the minister has it on the table all the time based on information from other authorities and organisations doing control tasks? No, he has to report, unless the report comes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What's going on with the transfer funds? Everything and everything. And then you get angry when we tell you to hold your hand on that tap that flushes the water out of. Yes, I'm telling you again, you want to manage life and death in the Republic of Serbia through financial flows. Explain to me both professional and economical, and from the point of view of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and from the point of view of the laws and existing rules -- why sanctions for a simple report would be a suspension of the transfer of funds, to drop one place. Is that the order, is it discipline, or is it self-will and sick vanity? And ye who are uninformed, and ye who, for the sake of the preservation of the coalition, shall not be there Zivkovic, who has fallen anyway, vote with vanity.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18085	Thank you. The word is Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18086	Thank you, I'm reporting again for the untruths that were brought to the account of G17 plus. I apologize to my colleagues, of course, for my bangs, I didn't know they were in so much trouble. As for who saw and who didn't see the houses, I really wasn't in Jasa Tomic, I was a little more concerned with the problems in southern Serbia, because there was damage from the flood. The problem is for those who were, and they didn't see it. Today's "Blic" page 4 - pictures, a house built at the entrance to Jasa Tomic and a text that is not very fond of the government, because it expresses doubts whether it will all be completed before winter. He says, "On the morning, at the entrance to Jasa Tomic, only 56 buildings are being built for now." I guess that's exactly what I said. "The first ten should be moved by July 30th, and the rest in turn, so that they will be completed by 15 November. Furthermore, 19 have not yet been provided with funds; that's the rebalancing one. The works in the village centre have moved away, where four residential buildings will be built, whose rise is funded by the state and one that will be donated by the city of Belgrade." Then, mentions are made of houses from Ivanjica, etc. So that's the 300 million we expect from the rebalancing. Not to read any more about what's being said in this text, the truth is doing, I haven't been to Yashi Tomic, here, the people who were, let's get a little bit of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18087	Thank you. He has a word for his business, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18088	Mr. Angelkovic, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, this is the second time. This lady just came out on the line for that show, so she didn't say anything. Now she's on the line for my presentation, and I didn't mention the house or anything. You're letting her read to me here about my replica, where I've proven she's an indecipherable man who suggested a member like this. Please, punish her or vote for you to commit an injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18089	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I gave Mrs. Plassic my word by amendment, and as she explained the amendment, it's a matter of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18090	Yeah, there really is that article in The Flash. The title of the article is: "Scar – will the houses be finished before winter". Now it's July the month, what does a journalist fear will the houses be finished before winter? But, okay. Mrs. Plavishi, since I wasn't in Leskovac, and the SRS signed a contract yesterday for a house in Leskovac. Let me inform you that the elections for the councils of the local communities in Leskovac have passed, but not fragmental, but complete: 185 mandates of the SRS; 185 SPS; followed by the SNS, followed by the Democratic Party and only then come the DSS and G17 plus. The absolute winner is the SRS, and in the last election we were fourth. That's the whole truth. I didn't read that in "The Flash," that's your data. Do you, ma'am, with your bangs down, have any information on that? Well, it is beautiful, I can't make mistakes. Do you have any final information that you can deny me? Why are you bragging? We didn't even talk about it. Mr. Cvetanović told me today, I wasn't paying attention to that. He told me, "boss, we're the absolute winners of Leskovec." It's perfectly normal for me. We will "daughter" in the Republic elections. We have an expression of what you said here and what I said. This is your strength and our strength in Leskovac. And the choice of people - and I guarantee it. But admit that you shared there with your coalition partner fourth and fifth places, and before you were three political parties that do not participate in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18091	I thank you, Mr. Nikolic, for the replica of Snezana Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18092	Thank you. For the sake of truth, there's a stenogram. I didn't say G17 plus was the first in the elections in Leskovac. I said G17 plus won 14% of the Leskovec citizens' support. Is it true or not - 14% support for Leskovec citizens? So, not in doubt, as you tried to talk about today, not 2%, as they say, but 14% - fourth or fifth. We weren't the first in the parliamentary elections either. Clearly, you have the most MPs. We're 30. Now we have 14%, and that's what I said. I've listed some cases just to illustrate that he's in some places, and not only in the team I listed, I won G17 plus. I said it was a completely variable thing. Of course, it's all right, we'll have a daughter in the election still, but G17 plus is the strength to count on. That's what I said and I'm behind it, please the stenographic notes are here. So I wasn't telling the truth, I was telling the truth. Of course, I wasn't talking about the SRS. It's true that the Radical Party is first, it's true, and I said that G17 plus has 14% instead of two, as far as you're saying, and that's what I'm behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18093	Here you go, Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18094	The only thing I heard was that you had 80% my 5%, 20% my 5%, but that's where you singled out some two places where you probably had it. Now you've told one truth that hurts Serbian citizens terribly, and that's actually the essence of all that's going on in Serbia. You said -- we didn't win the parliamentary elections either, and then how you lead Serbia. Then what right do you have to lead Serbia? That's all I care about. I've heard a hundred times from your members behind the pay phone that you are the power, that you are the leader of Serbia, that you are in charge of the government, the engine, and that you deserve it, when you didn't win the election and when you, my dear lady, acknowledge that you didn't win the election. We won the election, and you run Serbia. That's why Serbia is not going well. Yes, but it's not, if you've read any book from democracy, it's not a matter of democracy, if one who isn't... Get out of my way to see my wife. How, well, your father wasn't a glass-cutting man. So, the basis of democracy is to allow citizens to choose freely and choose the best. Then you interfere, and you say, "These are the best that you have chosen who will not be in power. We will be the ones you did not want." This is what ruined Serbia and until the best in Serbia are in power, and the best are those who get the most votes, Serbia will not be able to move forward. Don't expect the best of you who aren't the best to help you run the country. Then what would we do with politics? To make it possible for you who are not the best to rule. Have you recorded that in any country in the world? Is it noted in any country in the world that the strongest political party does not immediately get the mandate to form a government and not to be helped by all other political parties. It's democracy. We go to the competition, we go first through the goal, you help us run the country, you point to our mistakes, you calculate that you will be able to lead the country after the next election. And no, we win, you run the country, we point to your mistakes, and you say, who are these to interfere with us leading the country quickly, as we intend. This country didn't want you to run it, because this country is citizens, it's voters. The voters didn't want you, maybe someone from the West wants you, maybe someone from the IMF wants you, maybe someone from the World Bank wants you, but they're not setting you up yet. Maybe after this deal, but I don't know which one of you approved it yet, but maybe after this deal that Vuk Draskovic signed, and you're an expert, so you can estimate if he's even capable of signing interstate contracts. Perhaps they will also appoint the president of the state, and the government, and the ministers, and MPs, perhaps. Perhaps we will fall into such slavery that there will be no more choice. But the last recorded election said we were the best. For me, it's a court of law. I can tell you now that we'll be the best on the next one, and you know it well, but I won't. It's just... It's... it's... it's... What we measured only a year and a half ago has shown that we are the best. What you're doing right now, that's what you're doing for us, but don't do it for us. I understand, and if you had formed a government past the radicals, but if you'd done everything you'd do radicals, and I could accept that, I would support it. But since you run the state completely the opposite of what the people wanted, it is our job to stop you as much as possible. You change your Rules of Procedure, abolish our rights, and we will find a way to stop you, in a tight way, because you need to be stopped, so that you can stop ruling. It's clear to Serbia. You understand that, but you defend attitudes that are no longer defensive. I repeat, in Serbia it was unimaginable what you did the other day via Vuk Draskovic. I can't even figure that out anymore. Shut up, your president, shut up, President of the DSS, President of the NS, Vuk Draskovic is signing the country's capitulation because you didn't even see the agreement. If you had seen him, you would have realized that there is no more state, that you no longer have any right to the territory of your country. Why? Because NATO claims there will be unrest in the Balkans. You say it helps NATO intervene in Kosovo and Metohija. And what NATO from Bosnia would intervene in Kosovo and Metohija if it had the strength in Kosovo and Metohija, when the situation was so good in Kosovo and Metohija, that they passed on everything to temporary institutions. How does he suspect there will be unrest? No, the unrest will not be in Kosovo and Metohija. First you scare Serbs to escape from there, second you seek an excuse to leave NATO on Serbia-Montenegro's territory without EU membership and without NATO membership. Now tell me what country in the world would allow? You've abolished the basic attributes of the state. There are lawyers among you here, there are politicians, perhaps you don't know exactly what the attributes of the state are so far, until the occupation that NATO has performed. Read what attributes we have kept and which we have lost. Excuse me, please, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18095	Thank you. National MP Milorad Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18096	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: You already objected. I am, but you must respect the dignity of the National Assembly at all times. I want to tell you this - you are not the best, and you prove it every day by working in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's what citizens see and that's what citizens will do in the next election and confirm. But they are the best parties that make up most of Serbia, among them is G17 plus. They are the best parties of democratic orientations, which make up the majority parties in Serbia, and our way of working, and by our joint action we show it to citizens every day. A citizen who votes has the right to make a mistake, but now I call on citizens to observe every day how the SRS works in the Serbian Parliament, in which way it wants to bring down parliamentaryism here. Look at only one example, and these are laws and there are amendments that you submit to the law and all of them are said - the member of the law is deleted. Then let them hear an explanation that has nothing to do with the legal solution itself. They see your empty story going nowhere. One more thing. So there is in democracy a coalition ability to join parties, especially parties of democratic orientation, what citizens want, and to exercise responsible and determined power. What about the SRS? No one's with them. Dear citizens, ask yourselves, what are those with whom no one will cooperate or coalition? They belong to former times and assess it in future elections. That's the point. As for Kosovo and Metohija, when you say such words for the assembly speaker, you must remember that the attributes of statehood in Kosovo and Metohija are lost thanks to you. What can be done, improved and in collaboration with the international community, is now done in the state of Serbia. All that you've done wrong, signed the capitulation, one part of the country's irresponsible policy has been alienated, and now we're trying to make a responsible policy, in collaboration with international institutions, to recover. And that's the point, and that's the way, co-operation with the whole world is necessary, started after October 5th, and if you want, there is no other way than to co-operate this country, which in the EU, which with America and the entire democratic world. That's the path G17 plus stands for. I'm sorry if that path to your welfare and the future of this country is to create those attributes of statehood that you've ruined, but what should we do, if it's not up to you. If you're talking about these things, you have to speak with dignity and remember what you did wrong in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18097	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18098	Here, in this hall, it was decided whether Serbia will capitulate in Kosovo and Metohija or not. Mr. Albianic, since you didn't even know what politics was at the time, since the flood threw you out on October 5th, as well as all the mud when the flood went out, let me inform you: the SPS and SPS voted for capitulation, and they were Serbian radicals against capitulation. Attacked after that they are for war, afraid of peace, because in peace they cannot deal with politics, that they are against finding more democratic forces of the world and the UN flag coming to Kosovo. I didn't hear you at the time that you attacked the Socialists because of the decision, but you, like everyone else who is in the government, supported the acceptance of the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Serb army and police from Kosovo and Metohija, from which NATO came to Kosovo and Metohija, and after that, the emigration of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. No, you can tell me anything, don't accuse me of capitulation in Kosovo and Metohija, because before that you accuse me of war in Kosovo and Metohija. If I had wondered, if Vojislav Seselj, who spoke only as a representative of the SRS for this speaker, we would have defended ourselves for another 15 days. And if it were in your brain, you'd read a book of their generals written after that. Now I call on SPS representatives, because I don't really hate you, I don't want any harm, I don't need any voter to vote for you. I urge you to respond a little bit to the historical facts here. At that time, astonished by the power of the Serbian army and police who unscathedly withdrew from Kosovo and Metohija, they wrote that they were deceived by NATO, that 60 per cent of the air force was destroyed, 80 per cent of the tanks and cannons in Kosovo and Metohija were destroyed and that they should just walk in. One more thing to tell you, only the two countries have bombed us in the last few days, and everyone else has gotten away with it because they didn't want to be involved in this crime. So, as far as Kosovo and Metohija are concerned, don't put anything on the wrong side of the radicals. Let's talk about democracy. Do we have a Constitutional Court, Mr. Albianic, is it a democratic state that has no constitutional court, what are you talking to me about here, what are you talking about, do we have a Constitutional Court? You want me to be a visionary now: in the next six months you will not be elected by any judge of the Constitutional Court. Why? Because you have coalition capacity, because the President of the Republic should propose judges who will be voted by the majority, who are not his in the Assembly. Will he listen to you, and those you say to suggest. Will you listen to him and vote for those whom he proposes? You've blocked the country. Don't tell me about the laws we're making, they can't go to check anywhere anymore. We don't have a Constitutional Court of Serbia, you lifted it after October 5th. The blockade lasted a year and a half because you couldn't agree on the judge's election. You have an absolute blockade today. There is no more Constitutional Court of Serbia because democratic forces have come to power. I don't know by what standards you know who the Democrats are, who they're not. By what standards do you talk about who will be with whom, who won't be with whom? In Serbia we are in a coalition each with each other, from the municipality to the municipality. Did I tell any of you not to go to the coalition in Serbia? I didn't. It's your democratic right. So, gentlemen, radicals at the bar, determine who you'll be in the coalition with. Did you guys from G17 plus tell your folks not to go with radicals? I think so. It's democracy, it's what you ordered democratically to your municipal committees not to go anywhere with radicals, so you got through again, and you and DS, you're getting a coalition with radicals. Is that a bad thing? Not bad. Don't accuse the country's strongest political party, it'll come back to you. Don't accuse the country's most popular political party, and it'll come back to you. Collect as long as you exist, you ciphers, and what you've done for the country, except have the poor money.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18099	Mr. Albianic, I saw you, just a little bit. Mr. Perry, I saw you too. Parliament does not last since yesterday, and I pray that all historical facts, if anyone wants to deal with history, are dealt with as it is written and as voted in this Republic's parliament. Mr. Krassic, don't throw it away. When it comes to this parliament and the SPS, we are proud that we have defended Serbs in Kosovo and that we have signed Resolution 1244, which everyone now swears, because it has protected from Rambuje and three years of voting against Kosovo's isolation from Serbia. That's the facts. Don't one day hug Resolution as it preserves sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the next day we attack Resolution as a capitulation. Mr Albianic, please have a fact in mind and decisions of the Serbian Parliament, not individuals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18100	It's a business thing. So, Mr. Angelkovic, you as chairman shouldn't comment after our replicas about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18101	Mr. Albianic, just a moment, one thing, first, to give you your time, and the other thing is - the chairman has an obligation to comment when someone warns in replication of Parliament's decisions. I am obliged, as chairman, to remind you that this parliament has adopted and adopted an agreement that has resulted in Resolution 1244 of the Security Council, which is not treated anywhere in the world, and even here in Serbia as a capitulation, could be a personal act, but rather a parliamentary decision. MPs change, parliaments change, but Parliament's decisions and laws remain as a state act. The State Act is a resolution decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18102	So, Mr Nikolic is once again jeopardizing the dignity of the National Assembly. I warned you on several occasions today. For the first time, then, the term - kill, the second time - protect, and now you've got a little bit of a grip on yourself, reduced the terms, now it's the flood and the mud. This tall home does not allow for conversion in such an unworthy way. As for the events we talked about, you were in power and don't run away from it. The moment NATO attacked us with its aggression, you were in power and made a very significant contribution to the atmosphere before it came to that. That's the point. You mention Vojislav Seselj here, and I'm a man who is worthy and I don't want to, while someone in The Hague stands to pronounce his name, but you challenge and now you honor me to challenge your replicas. It's completely the other way around. So, you're trying to attack here, and I'm telling you that you've advocated the borders of the great Serbia -- Carlovac-Carlobag-Ogulin-Virovica, and done your part to make hundreds of thousands of refugees leave the ends of those borders that you've advocated. You mustn't treat these people so irresponsible today. Do you know what fates people have experienced by having to leave their homes? If you had run a responsible policy, responsible for the international community – community, co-operation, regional co-operation, let's see how in a peaceful way to solve certain problems – all of this would not have occurred. But if you're running a war-hoc policy and you're making citizens do things like that, then of course today we're feeling the consequences of everything that's been going on. As far as I'm concerned, I've never been to another political party until the party G17 plus. I have fought for 10 years for changes in Serbia as an ordinary citizen and I had the right to do so, I have fought against those that have ruined the state of Serbia in the past decade. That's the point. Now you too have democratic values, thanks to October 5th, for all citizens in Serbia who have largely managed to cast out autocratic power. Now you here, using these democratic fluids, are trying to get that old way back into the congregation hall. That's not gonna work for you. You have to behave, that's the point. As for the Constitutional Court, of course there is an election procedure and that the president of Serbia will propose the judges this parliament will choose. What's the problem? You already think in advance there are some problems or you'd like problems to construct. So, to you, it's just bad things, problems. Let's turn to the good future of this Serbia. Who's the Democrats and who's not? First, you have morally destroyed this country and, of course, you have to fence yourself from the past you yourself belonged to so you can still get that democratic prefix in the future. That's your essence. So you have a few things to do and to give up some of the things that you yourself participated in so that you could do it in a normal way and unburdened to participate in parliamentary life in the future. That is the essence and there is the difference between people who want to build, to create, to lead to the improvement of this state and people who want to bring the shadows of the past into parliamentary life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18103	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18104	And mentioning it in the Rules of Procedure. I can understand Mr. Albianic's political need to often appear and speak, to speak in a way that he thinks is raising his party's ratings. When he speaks of the state, he must understand that he is making statements that are incorrect, arbitrary and deeply against this state. Take care of what you talk about when you talk about, as you say, the past. You used the expressions here as if they were radicals or socialists, because at that time we co-organized the government at the republican level, we led, as you say, the Hague policy and that we led to aggression. Mr. Albianic, I would ask you not to take on the backs of this country what Western countries and NATO have done against us. It's deeply irresponsible, both political and stately. We still don't know the reasons that led America to change its policy towards Serbia and that Albanians, who had called terrorists by 1998 -- should remind you that the state of Serbia led the fight against terrorists and had the support of a direct and indirect US -- that after that meeting, Holbrooke and the leaders of the UCK were suddenly renamed freedom fighters. Keep in mind that our country was bombed for 78 days and that signing the agreement was a way to stop aggression and that the SRJ has a legal basis over Kosovo and Metohija. Today it is our only document that we are looking for Kosovo and Metohija. I hope our country can recover, I must say, restore Kosovo and Metohija. Please be careful when you talk about those times. Serbia's history has not begun since 5 October. What's wrong with you? A multi-party Serbia has existed since 1990, and this parliament has lasted much longer than any political party has been present here. Now in 2005, talk about October 5th as some major revolutionary event, when the actors themselves said it was a coup, when it was known that in May an agreement was made on what to burn, which documents to destroy, whom to accuse, how to create an atmosphere to declare October 5th a national holiday, and in fact to find a way to bring down the Socialists and Slobodan Milosevic, then either you do not know what it was or you are knowingly telling the truth. We here in parliament should probably talk on the basis of facts, regardless of whether we appreciate each other. The assumption is that we appreciate it, but the arguments must be primary and when you talk about past times, as you say, make sure that multiparty Serbia exists since 1990, not since 2000 or 2001. Make sure you talk about things that are deeply against this state of Serbia. Don't get it wrong, Mr. Nikolic, you'll speak for the SRS, but when you talk about the times when we've organized power together, I have to tell you that we've run state policy, whether you like it or not. Your minister, the governor of the National Bank, says we're not listening to the IMF. Why aren't you listening? Because you appreciate that there are some reasons. And we didn't listen to all the advice they gave us from the West at the time, because we ran our own politics. When you mention Rambui, I guess you should know there was no conversation at all in Rambui. Rambouje was designed to blame Serbs for what was happening. Now, in 2005, you know that. Racak, you know it was a made-up cause of aggression on our country. Because of our country, because of our citizens, because of our history, you use facts. If you want one of us here to call it personal or party, then directly say, "Don't talk about past times, even though you know that the SPS today, either alone or with another, practically organized power in the Republic of Serbia for all 10 years and we don't give up any part of state policy in those 10 years, no matter how much someone likes it and no matter how much advice we give up. For what? To be declared Democrats? We are, by our structure, by the way we organize, by the way we work, by the values we stand for, greater Democrats than anyone. It doesn't need a commitment to gain some status that, well, we can be part of some society, which in practice worked all the opposite, all the opposite to the law, the opposite of the Constitution, and it's been filling its pockets since 2001, so here we go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18105	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Peric. So that I don't recommend to Mr. Albianic my book "Days of Terror", I will recommend that he read Wesley Clark, his book. I think it'd be good.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18106	Mr. Chairman, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 103, where it is said that the pay phone should be discussed on the agenda. I think you should disable and reduce the experiences of Albianic here at the pay phone, because otherwise none of the MPs will remain for long periods of time. Not after six, we're working till nine, to listen to Albianic. If he has nothing to do, he can go to the theater and act. Let go, there's no acting behind the pay phone. We should work. It's not the same. Chosen the Kosovo theme all afternoon. So I hope you won't allow him to talk about what's not on the agenda in the future. I'm not going to start at the beginning. I'm going to ask for a statement on the Rules of Procedure in the second report.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18107	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18108	I have to respond on behalf of the SRS to the accusations made by Mr Albianic, in the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I must remind Mr Albianic that October 5th will not remain remembered as the overthrow of the non-democratic government. More will be remembered as the day you started the Federal Assembly, and the elections have decided who will be in power in October and the December elections have decided who will be in power in Serbia. Fortunately, Serbia has decided who will be in power through the elections. No power was cast out on October 5th. Authorities were changed when the election results were collected. If you didn't have the support of the Montenegrin SNP, you didn't win the federal election at all. Vojislav Kostunica won the most votes in the presidential elections. What does that have to do with you? Now, the war began by entering the secession of Slovenia, and America said the SFRY must remain within the borders where it is founded by the UN. Your dear Slovenians killed 34 JNA soldiers, none of whom had ammunition in the pipe. They were killed by blocked barracks, shut down water and electricity, prevented food delivery, and our children going round in search of food, and Slovenian hunters killed them by snipers in the barracks circles. What does that have to do with the SRS? How did the war break out in Croatia? By the coming of Ustasha power, by erasing the Serbs from the Constitution as a people, by returning from emigration the Ustasha and their descendants who slaughtered the Serbs. By confessing to Tudjman – you could see it in the film "True" of the SRS, I invited you as a man for that promotion, but you didn't come as a man – so he said, "The war wouldn't have been if we didn't want a state." The original text of Franjo Tudjman: "The war wouldn't be if we Croats didn't want to have a country." What does that have to do with the SRS? Did the SRS break into the Okucani? Did she break into Bor's village? In the elections held in Republika Srpska, radicals won parliamentary seats. In eastern Slavonia, West Srem and Baranja, of the seven candidates, the seven were MPs of the SRS. That's how the RSK people appreciated what we did for them. And what we experienced in Bratunc, that at the cemetery of those who were killed by Muslims, when we laid a wreath, only to us Serbian radicals, and the wreath was laid by the President of Republika Srpska, and the Prime Minister, and a member of the BiH presidency, and a special envoy of the president of the Republic of Serbia, in the greatest possible peace and quiet, and when we laid the crown, the applause of the families of those whose dead are in that cemetery broke. Is that something they resent us for? This is the relationship between the Serb people in both RSK and Republika Srpska towards the SRS. You can't change that relationship with us. That's what's left in history. I don't know what you mentioned about Vojislav Seselj. What were you going to say about Vojislav Seselj? Why did you even mention him for this pay phone? I did, but you later honored the mention of Vojislav Seselj. That's the president of the SRS. Bre, Albianic, charge you with stealing an egg at the market, you'd run away without getting caught, and that man went to The Hague, voluntarily went to The Hague to defend Serbia and Serbian national interests. I'm only interested in your position on Resolution 1244, do you support what the SPS was for or what the SRS was for? You can't condemn both parties. You can't say we're to blame for what happened after that. It is either those who have accepted the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin agreement or those who are not, and cannot be blamed for those who have accepted the agreement and those who have not. Just because someone was in power together doesn't mean they're making the same moves. We have nothing to be ashamed of and we Serbian citizens have nothing against. Absolutely nothing. Especially from the time we were in power. You came in after that, opened the archives, combed what we were doing. Did any of us get on the defendant's bench? It is Branislav Blazic for 12 uniforms that he bought for poor children in a village on the territory of the municipality of Kikind, so they can kick the ball. But here, I'm ready, as long as you condemn him, I'll go to jail instead. I was also in prison during Slobodan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18109	Nadika Momirov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18110	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 103. I ask all MPs to return to the topic, and the subject is to amend and supplement the Budgetary System Act. Please go back to the topic because this story you're telling right now, not to say bad, this outwitting, this story about Serbia's history, which is not so famous, unfortunately, will not lead to pensioners getting pensions, students getting scholarships, etc. Please go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18111	Mr. Nikolic, come in. I don't know who he's begging. There are no thirds here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18112	Here, to convince you how important it is to discuss everything the National Assembly is responsible for, I will read only two sentences of the agreement signed by Vuk Draskovic. One: "Being in mind that NATO's presence in the Balkans aims to carry out peace support operations established by the UN and other intergovernmental organisations to support peace and stability throughout the region." We agreed to let them do what they want, and in the end, so that you know how democratically you run the state, says: "This agreement (Listen well to Krasic, you will write for the Constitutional Court) takes effect on the day that Serbia-Montenegro informs NATO that all procedures for the entry into force of this agreement (that means that it is a ratified agreement), and will be applied temporarily from the day of signing." So you don't even appreciate the National Assembly. An agreement that needs to be ratified by the Assembly, I would also suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be involved in this, not only the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, but an agreement that must be ratified by the National Assembly, under the Constitution, the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, you say: it will be applied temporarily before ratification. So, tonight, NATO's pact forces can pass through Serbia as they wish. He says, "Serbia and Montenegro will establish a real price for passing through. "But if they don't agree on the price of passing, they can't keep the operation. That's you, my dear gentlemen, the statesmen, the Democrats, the defenders of the country, accepted the signing of Vuk Draskovic. I know why you let Vuk Draskovic do it. One day someone will find out that he has no business ability, and maybe this lady with the bangs will find out that she has no business ability and that she shouldn't have signed it. What do they say about this, Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic? What do two people who take pictures with Solana and who must be behind all the decisions Serbia makes? Let's start talking about this now, let's break the budget, vote. Let's do that for you. Vote. You're just waiting for the day to vote. Vote. When are you going to discuss this? Are you ready to discuss how we finally arrived under the occupation of the NATO Pact?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18113	Mr. Petrovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18114	Article 104. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, unfortunately, topics that are not on the agenda occupy the attention of this Parliament and the public. Because of two things, I think it's important that we determine the facts as they are. The President of the Republic, because it was the subject of whether the procedure concerning the appointment and election of the Constitutional Court judges takes place or not, was proposed by two judges of the Constitutional Court. I hope the president of this assembly puts it on the agenda. Since we have seen that the President of Parliament is here somewhere, he may inform us tonight of his intention if parliament could open a debate and plead on the matter. The other thing is this agreement that's been talked about here a lot, and that is an important agreement, and of course it's a whole new international and legal situation. But I think the time will come to discuss it. I don't mind it being a part of the agenda, although it is originally responsible for Serbia-Montenegro's parliament. This assembly and this parliament are sending a delegation, so there is no reason why we do not talk about it. It's important for the public, first of all the MPs know it here, no matter how they interpret the content of the agreement. It is important to say goodbye to the public that no one can, and when I say no one thinks of foreign military troops or individual states or international organisations such as the NATO Pact, they cannot set foot in our country's territory unless they get approval from the competent military and state authorities for each individual entry. That's the facts. So, one might think that here at nine o'clock now could be some kind of armored vehicle or I don't know what kind of foreign military force to enter Serbia's territory, can't do it without the authority's approval. The agreement creates a legal framework for it to happen or not, and I'm getting out of this topic and I'm not gonna waste any more time on it. But it is very important that we all have enough respect, concern and attention for 110,000 brave fellow Americans living in Kosovo and Metohija, who remained after 1999, whatever happened in 1999, and no matter how anyone interpreted the end of the bombing that hit Serbia. They're historical facts now. We have big issues to deal with here. So, 110,000 brave people, Serbs, other non-Albanians, live in Kosovo and Metohija today, and they have the right to receive from this country any possible indirect or impossible support to stay in Kosovo and Metohija, because it is the interest of the Serbian state. The UN is looking after order and peace in Kosovo, the UN is working hard because they are empowered by the Security Council's decision to act as an armed force against every attack, every act it was in the spring of last year. It was necessary to create good preconditions to keep, ensure and strengthen the safety of our people who had, once again, enough courage and strength to maintain the presence of the Serbian state, among other things, in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18115	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kragovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18116	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 104. I would like to point out to the previous speaker that it should not abuse 110,000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. They are down there brave and determined to survive in the space of Kosovo and Metohija. They're brave because they expect our army and police to come to Kosovo and Metohija one day. Not only do NATO forces come to them from Belgrade, the Kings and the Kragujevac to Kosovo and Metohija. There's no need for them to come down. In Kosovo and Metohija, international forces, and NATO forces, and forces of all countries of Europe, have been stationed. There are 55,000 soldiers who have also entered Kosovo and Metohija. What's the result? One black hole in Europe. Did peace prevail after the international forces entered? It's not. Did it take over? It's not. Is freedom prevailed? It's not. Is there anything, anything positive, that has any civilized country, which can be said to be in Kosovo? There isn't. How long has it been? Six years. How long does it take that west to seduce order and peace in the space of Kosovo and Metohija? Six hundred years. Then we'll wait 600 years. We want the Serbian army and Serbian police to be in Serbia and to be on the roads of the Serbian army and Serbian police, hoping that one day they will come to Kosovo and Metohija. We do not want the forces of the international or NATO pact to move, so that they come to defend us 110,000 Serbs below Kosovo and Metohija. They don't need to. They're down there, and they're with us, but they're not defending us. We defend ourselves, as we know and know, naked versus an organized terrorist organisation called the Kosovo Liberation Army. So please, talk about everything, but don't talk about letting international forces step on our territory to protect 110.000 Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That's a lie. Such a thing does not stand and I do not want you to deceive Serbs in Serbia, especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We will defend ourselves. We don't need international forces coming from Belgrade, I repeat, Kings, Kragujevac, but we need to have our strong Serb army and police, and you're destroying the Serbian army and police and you want to install them into the Kingdom, Kragujevac, Belgrade as international forces. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18117	Replica, Mr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18118	Article 104. Rules of Procedure, replicas for the facts and for what's real and what's really the state of things. Desires can be like that, and I think people sitting in this parliament, as well as Serbian citizens, have very similar desires. But wishes are one thing, and possibilities are another. I have not heard from the SRS MPs that Resolution 1244 and the Kumanski Agreement today dispute as the legal framework of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija. We can think very differently or think the same, not even important, but those two international documents clearly define who has the right to control military forces and opportunities in Kosovo and Metohija. That's the consequences. I'm not going back to history today. It's not my intention. Also, the fact is that after 17 March or after those three-day scary events last year, it was precisely these foreign KFOR forces that managed to maintain most of our countrymen on KIM. That's a fact. You can, like anyone, think that's not the case, but that's the case. It is therefore important to ensure that as much security as possible for the 110,000 people who defacto represent the presence of the Serbian state in KIM. We talked here about the attributes of statehood and territory, about the population, about the effective government, of all that Serbia in KIM today has 110.000 people -- brave, who I admire, who I think really represent the pride of the nation, because they have the strength to, in the beginning of the 21st century, maintain their existence at KIM in abnormal circumstances. I think it's a state interest to give these people everything in our power to keep them safe, which is the weakest element of their daily life, which is not good, you know it better than I do, to stabilize and create opportunities to improve that life, and to create opportunities for as many as 220,000 people, who are displaced with KIM and living in Serbia, to return to their homes and to their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18119	Thank you, Mr. Petrovic. Replica, Mr Kragovic, with the resolution obliged to prevent and the obligation is to prevent it from reaching March 17th, to protect it, because afterwards it is a consequence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18120	There's only one truth I want to tell here. All those who think international forces were a factor in the survival of Serbs at KIM are mistaken. No soldier, no police officer in any country in the world has prevented any Serb family from moving out with KIM. On the contrary, they advocate, offer, share terms, funds, trucks, wages in Serbia only to move the Serb from KIM. You're telling a different story here, that these are the forces that have managed to provide it. In Kosovo, the brave Serb people, self-sacrificing themselves and their families, survived KIM, not because it was a wish by the French army, English, American or any other army and that they provided support. That's a lie. At no time did they protect any one Serbian family. Since 1999, would there be 1,300 kidnapped Serbs? Would there be over 1,500 Serbs killed? Would it have happened on March 17 if it wanted to be an international world? Do you think the Ship's terrorists got up and produced March 17 because they're so strong? It was a warrant from the West to challenge the stampede to ban the remaining 110,000 Serbs with KIM. They're not that strong. It's embarrassing for me to read our press. We allow NATO forces to enter Serbia's territory because they are afraid that the Cypriots will rise again and re-elected unrest in the Balkans. We celebrate one terrorist organization, normally, should be careful of any terrorism, it's an evil we should fight against. No one can convince me that we have to let go that NATO forces must engage their forces through the Republic of Serbia to come and defend Serbs in KIM, and are already stationed in KIM space, stationed in Bulgaria, Macedonia, in all surrounding countries. Now it's an alleged excuse -- we'll let other forces walk across our territory, whether it's ratified or not in the Serbian Parliament or the SCG National Community Assembly for the sake of the Serbs' peace and security. It's a lie, and I don't want it to be instrumentalized and told about it. It is one of the defeating policies of our current state leadership that is ruling in Serbia. Only stories and flossules were found to be an excuse for their defeating and ministerial policy led by this country towards international forces, not to protect Serbs at KIM. You Serbs in KIM can help in another way: to activate the budget, to help Serbs in enclaves to be as strong as possible, to have what to live on, to form their mini-agricultural holdings, mini factories, mini-existence. None of it works. Has one dollar come in the last two years to KiM since the investment? He hasn't come since this government. We pay, he says, the teacher, the doctor. You have to pay teachers, a teacher can't teach children if he doesn't get paid; a doctor can't work at a health center and a medical center if he doesn't have a salary. You're talking about current maintenance. You want to have Serbs. We want all Serbs. We want the state of Serbia to be present at KIM, and the excuse is - we will only pay their salaries, and these salaries are as very large, Serbia has no means and ways to endure. He doesn't have a single penny to place. And here we boast that we have a surplus, that we have the means that after 48 or 68 years, I don't know how many, Serbia has finally managed to create so much resources that it can transfer them to the next financial year. On the one hand, there's no funds. How many separate funds are there for the return of Serbs to return to KIM? It's a negligible number. How do you plan to get any Serb back into any part of the territory? You can do it two ways: one is - in negotiations with the international community, because it is obliged to do it; another way - for Serbia, as a mother, to save the bag a little bit, to say - that and that family will build a house in that and that place, please, come back and provide some conditions for normal work. Only by naked talk, demagogy or by allowing international forces, NATO forces, to walk in Serbia; well, it will protect Serbs, that will allow them to return. No, I don't. They're neither protecting us nor defending us. They're just silent observers to everything that's going on on Kim. Unfortunately, the state of Serbia is also a silent observer of what is happening at KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18121	Thank you, Mr. Kragovic. Anyone else want a word by article 38? No, I don't. ( ) Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go, Miss Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18122	Mr. Angelkovic, gentlemen of Parliament, although several ladies are present, ministry ladies, a colleague of the government, I wonder how you can accept being the guinea pig of Predrag Markovic, who devised the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are currently eight MPs in the room from the ruling furniture, and that's really a shame. It is a shame that after 15 years of the Serbian Parliament's renewal of the multi-party, and you are a witness to all the former assembly's calls, it is now working in conditions in which absolutely no representative from the government of the Republic of Serbia is interested in what is being discussed here. Not that Mladjan Dinkic did not favour us to appear here, but rather, the Serbian government did not give us a written form, although it was its business obligation, answers to the amendments submitted, even this article, 39, which speaks of sanctions, or fines for violations under the Budget System Act. Yes, Mladjan Dinkic, but in a hurry, one day he came to the meeting of the Finance Committee and declared himself a representative of the government. But I am not a member of the Finance Committee, and not all MPs - nor the SRS, nor it is possible, nor those who exercise power. There is no answer why the amendment is not accepted, if, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I ask that there be no such dragon penalties and such drastic criminal provisions - and new criminal provisions, which he has spoken of many times, particularly by fellow Krasic, and other MPs, including the presidents of municipalities, Serbian radicals, when it comes to the relationship and future relationship under this amazing law, in the true sense of the word monstrous when it comes to budgetary users and powers that Mladjan Dinkic will have. The financial uncertainty of Serbian citizens, as well as those who are following this session and who now see what is being said here and who are moving very important and national and state-owned issues to which the right and wise state-run answers only have SRS, is clearly and responsible for the past events and those who will follow, this financial uncertainty is so present that there is no city in Serbia, and that people in the right sense do not cry out because of the fact that they have nothing to live on. I really don't know how many times I've been here today, but more than once, of course, I don't mind, just having words of comfort for these people, the people who are from the Union of Drinkers called me. Those who experienced yesterday and stopped being beaten by the current government on the street, abused by it, only because they loudly and loudly told Mladjan Dinkic, who foresees such extraordinary penalties under the basic law 74, or 39, that they are the social category in our society. Even 80% of those people are the ones who are out of work, expelled with some miserable severance, people who want to get legalized tomorrow. They don't want to live in chaos, in an unsettled state. This law and the way the minister treats them – not wanting to talk to them, nor to accept them, has never honored any representative, it is an army of unemployed, conditionally employed people, who sell something by weight – that his intention is to suppress all people in Serbia in a repressive financial manner. And if this member of the 74th basic law, or 39th, is changing something that will contribute to the better, then you MPs who will vote in favour of this law will be badly deceived tomorrow. I warn representatives of the ruling parties, which are also ruling parties at local level, that both this member and member of the 3rd above all of this law, and the first member, will produce a much greater crisis and problems in local self-government units than you can imagine. And the previous article of the 73k law, which is being attached, that is, the ninth point of this article that I'm asking for to be deleted, is something amazing. It's amazing, and it's despotism of an extreme kind. If that member, or that position, says that point, that unless the competent authority of the local authorities delivers a report to the Ministry and acts in accordance with this law, the minister may suspend the transfer of the transfer funds from the Republic's budget until the time of the submission of the requested reports and acts. What more can you say and tell the councils, and the presidents of municipalities and cities in Serbia tonight, when it is discussed or tomorrow when this law is passed and effective? To tell them they won't be able to pay their salaries, that they won't be able to pave the streets, that they won't be able to provide basic living conditions in the local self-government unit. That means this member. And you did not wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible for the general Hajduci, who ruled in Serbia and in certain Belgrade municipalities, as you saw in Surcin an attempt in a pub, such as in Arandjelovac, because the head of the SRS municipality, Dr Radosav Svabic, was elected to the vast majority of the Arandevcan votes and trust, experienced as another Dr Dunjic and other representatives, executive owners of the SRS, that because of the violation of the Law on Local Self-Government and because of the illegal municipal councils, the possibility of them to be the holders of the executive government, as predicted by the Law on Local Self-Governing and to propose to the assembly of the municipal budget, and now have to bear sanctions. Because if you say, and this includes this Article 74, or Article 39, which changes, that the competent executive authority of the local government determines the draft budget of the local government, must provide it to the local assembly within the established budget calendar, how you will react and how you can provide for such dragons' penalties in general for the normal situation, where everything is done under the democratic procedure and under the Law on Local Self-Government. Here, let's say, in a case such as Arangelovac, where the president of the municipality, a moral and honorable man, who knows that the people chose him and did not usurp this place of the executive authority, does not want to participate in the bribery and deceptions carried out primarily in that municipality by the G17, because he has three council members, and a Gusick for the president of the municipal assembly, who, along with the other representatives of the authorities, is the greatest responsibility, that is, the irresponsibility of the DSS MP, the former president of the municipality, Radmilo Milosevic, because he was elected by the state council, who met. There is no right to meet, there is no right to do anything and to establish, they appear instead of the president of the Municipality of Krautić as the holders of the executive authority, and you know that this is a municipally larger one, the auxiliary body of the president of the municipality and, please, establish the budget of them, completely illegal representatives, because they were not proposed by the executive body, which has been uncontested and even confirmed by Minister Loncar in his letter that the appeal, or the objection to the violation of the law by the president of the municipality to such behaviour by Gusicka, Milosevic and others, is respected by the minister. Now you want to punish him, let's say he does, because he didn't do it within a certain time limit. How does he do it and who does it with? All that this is so and that there is a regular situation, unlike this hiducia and this usurpation by an informal group, such as those of the municipal council members in Arangelovac, it is impossible for the local self-government unit, and therefore the local community and any public enterprise, whose founder is the municipality's founder and who should be a public service in the area of local self-government, to put under his paw, or under his feet, to say that it is trampling however Mladjan Dinkic wants. In addition to increasing the fines established in 2003 and now being doubled, even more than that, so the fine with two to 20,000 dinars, for these situations, when provisions are not respected, I have cited only these two cases, when the report is not delivered, imagine, the report is not done properly – people punish with five to 50,000 dinars. As he can always find hair in the egg, so because of the comma, for whatever reason the minister can say, or the ministry that the report is wrong and to return. As long as the Ministry of Finance and the finance minister don't take care of local self-government units, here in Arnadjelovac and many other cities in Serbia, everywhere where radicals came to power, we didn't need some external auditor to invent it, like this point at the next session, people sent a letter, because if we explicitly oppose the law, the one who voted with what will, even though we disagreed, unlike these defeated legalists, we respect it. We asked nicely for an auditor from Belgrade, from the Ministry of Finance, and for the budget to be cut off from the moment of takeover and from public utility companies, the founder of the municipality's assembly. With two or three letters from the president of the municipality of Dr. Krabic in Arangelovac, other cities in Serbia, you think someone has appeared from the finance ministry. To my question directly to Mladjan Dinkic, like this from the bench, not from the assembly speaker, Mr Dinkic, why didn't you send after a month to the municipality and the municipality, to the municipality of Arangelovac, the auditor to carry out the intersection, he said -- you know, I don't have people, and people don't want to work for a salary of 18,000 dinars, or as much as he told me then. Is that the problem of people who are the holders of the executive authority or is that the problem of an incompetent minister or minister who now wants to organize a vault management, where you don't know by this Article 73z or h, in fact z, that they will have a salary, and how much pay they will be, and how they will build a working relationship, and you can't send the one who needs to cut the budget. This kind of dragon punishment, and by pushing local self-government units, it's really amazing. They're not precedents. It is indeed a despotism, I repeat again, which is inappropriate for any democratic practice, and especially in a situation where people by law and by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia go to elections, bear responsibility for what the citizens voted for them, they want in the interest of the citizens in the way and in the programme they presented to rule. They will not be able and Serbian citizens in municipalities and cities must know, from tomorrow when this law is passed, that they must count on it, and people who are employed in these enterprises, and all municipalities, to be followed by one general financial uncertainty, because one move by the minister can suspend all their funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18123	I also thank you for your concern for my presidency, as I did in the past Rules of Procedure before the Constitutional Court, but I respected it. When citizens have to respect a law they don't like, then we MPs are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure. And as chairman, and also by respecting MPs who want to discuss this point, I am sitting here and while you want to discuss, you have a business opportunity. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18124	I was surprised, I didn't understand you after I went, you said he was accepted, I don't believe he was accepted, and here's why. I'm going to have to reach out to this previous amendment to article 39 on fines for violations. You see, a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 dinars will punish the responsible person of the beneficiaries of the budget, the responsible person in the organisation of compulsory social security or the other responsible person for the next violations, so please note that you see what these violations are. For example, point 2) - if it does not comply with the provisions of Article 13a and goes on. Experts, I'm going to read you what's written in Article 13a. Article 13a - the amount of the budget surplus and the way it is allocated is determined by the Law on the budget of the Republic, i.e. by a decision on the budget of the local authorities. What is this injury, who is the doer, when he has done it, how he has done it. Come on, experts, figure out who's going to tell me where the offense is, whether it's some imperial norm that prescribes some behavior, and, of course, then in accordance with Article 44, it can cause some kind of sanctions for disrespect. You can't see an explicit provision here. But to move on, very interesting. Then it is said, too, further like this - he does not respect the provision of Article 24. Article 24 says -- the minister is delivering the draft budget of the Republic to the government. If this is a violation, then the minister responds to a misdemeanor if he has not submitted the draft budget to the Republic of Vlad. But you didn't tie those deadlines to the budget calendar. Let's go to this last position that's changed now in Article 24 that says, you've listed Article 24(6) here, that's the one, and now we're going to do this, I've done this a little bit now to make a connection how these can match, and the minister is untouchable. If the minister delivers something to the government, the government draft one, it's some kind of failure. However, if the competent executive authority of the local authorities, the municipal council now says point 6) -- the local government's competent executive body will establish a proposal for a local government budget and make it mandatory to deliver it to the local assembly within the budget calendar set. There's an imperative order here, the local government's executive authority is required to deliver, etc. But there's no such thing. Here, a declaration finds itself about what the process is, but does not bind to the calendar, binds to local authorities, but does not bind to the minister. Let's move on, he says, if he doesn't comply with the provisions of article 73k of this law. The provision of Article 73k reads - unless the competent authority of the local authorities delivers reports and acts in accordance with this law, the minister may suspend the transfer of funds from the republic's budget until the time the requested reports and acts are delivered. So if you don't deliver the report, it's a violation, write it down. You wrote here, temporarily suspending transfer funds. What you didn't put in the first position -- they're obliged to file reports, etc., in the second position, unless they deliver. No, she wrote children. Played kids, played parts. Now we're going to this article 41. It's a transitional provision that's likely to be used for another 15 days. The article 41 reads - the act of the Minister responsible for Finance Affairs - will set a deadline until which payments can be made from the sub-account of the beneficiaries of the budget and the funds of the mandatory social security organisations from which payments are made on the date of entry into force of this law. Why is it determined by the act of the minister, is it not determined by law?? You already say in the following provision - the Treasury Administration will begin work on August 1st, 2005. So what it takes is to pay off some sub-accounts that are shut down, that's impossible, people. What is referred to in Article 41 is contradictory of Article 42. You're nodding your head, but why do you need a minister's act? Therefore, the deadline will be set, it shall prescribe a deadline until which payments can be made from the sub-account of the beneficiaries of the budget. You're changing the bill plan now, changing everything. You're opening new sub-accounts, and where? It's at the new vault management. Only from the existing ones that are shut down in the vault are you registering the status, transferring, if there is something to pay, paying, registering as a claim and transferring debt and paying off from a new account. Why is it now necessary to act again, the Almighty? So, an act through the law. And why through the law. Because if you said in article 42, the Treasury Administration will start working on August 1, 2005, so that there is no confusion, for we have also submitted amendments to Articles 41 and 42 requiring it to be deleted because we are in principle against such administration. These two members are contradictory to each other. Here, just in case, let the minister write something down. What more can he prescribe? Is he able to prescribe that if you pass this law, the Treasury will begin working on September 1st? It can't, because the law says August 1st, 2005, and that's ten days from now. It is said further -- the provisions of this law that are put out of force, the provisions of the Budgetary System Act. Well, you didn't single-handedly put out any provision of the Budgetary System Act. You've changed those provisions. Since you changed them in that original text, they won't exist. You don't have any provision to say - it's out of force. What's going on? What's going on? It is said - the law ceases to apply, it is not said - the law is put out of force. It's not said - the provision is put out of effect, but ceases to apply. I don't know who did this. Furthermore, as regards the establishment and the work of the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury Sector, it will apply from the start of the Treasury Administration's work on 1 August. Why are you bonding with these provisions? It says - until the start of the Treasury Administration, the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury Sector, will continue to carry out the tasks laid down by law and other regulations in force on the day of entry into force of this law, which, according to the provisions of this Act, are carried out by the Treasury Administration. Total confusion in transitional and final provisions. You don't know who's drinking or who's paying. I'm absolutely sure you don't trust that new Treasury Authority either. I know you've got a big fight in the Ministry itself about the very idea of creating a vault management, I know you're all quiet down there, you're putting up with what's hysterical. It says - until the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance will carry out the tasks that this law places in the jurisdiction of the Treasury Administration. It's all messed up. If you made a cut and said - The Treasury Administration begins with the work on August 1, 2005, you solved all this. Then you say -- this law comes into force the next day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". If he votes tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, he comes into effect. If the day after tomorrow he entered into force, then the amended provisions no longer exist. If your idea of starting from August 1st, no problem is to start from August 1st, to adapt this work to the provisions, the new amendments to the provisions of this law. But obviously there are secret accounts and secret sub-accounts, and this whole bitch is about it. A fictional surplus has been made, with some hands spinning, because they should otherwise be provided with funds from abroad, from some exotic islands, because the Treasury Administration will become an alpha and omega of total life in the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about economic flows. You can see for yourself that Belgrade's real estate has dropped 20%. These before you were cut that they couldn't be installed, that they were recalibrating some, so they issued building permits and used permits even though the facility wasn't even started, so it showed up on the market a large number of apartments, but what it's worth when there's no one to buy for some locations. You can see for yourself that all businessmen are now grabbing and fleeing abroad to do something. Put your hands up here. Why? Wherever Mladjan Dinkic goes, but not as a law enforcement function, but as a function of creating new monopolys for his Hamovics, Canet Zappac, the one Subotic, the cigarette mobster. You're complicit in that. All of you on this side are complicit in this. That's the whole point, not the theoretical debate whether we need a vault or not, how we realize a payment order, what happens, etc. He wants a man to have a bank, to do financial business. He will provide a interest contribution to the funds employed to fill the budget, to return to abroad or something else. Let's drop the story. He doesn't know that. He thinks if he can turn his hands with the financial police and this IRS, to kidnap you, you're complicit. It says Article 44 - day of the work of the Treasury Administration, and you have already said that it will be August 1st, will take over employees and continue to use equipment and other means of work used by the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury. That provision could exist if this corrupt operation of forming the Treasury Administration is accepted. It also cancels Article 41 and these other members that are inaccurate, confusing. You will see for yourself, only on paper will that Treasury Authority start on August 1st, and when it will actually come to life, when it will come to a consolidated account and how else it will be monitored. It's only after some bills and sub-calculations are cleared. Why don't we have data on the number of subcalculations? Why don't we have information on the state of the funds in the sub-accounts? Why don't we have information on the shares from the Stock Fund that were sold, did the funds get paid? Have you salded the status of the clearing paper? What are you talking about? We didn't include a member of the 40s for the simple reason of the audit. He has now upgraded the younger one, since in the first and only position he says - the temporary appointment of external auditors, this is the top one where what they said about the National Assembly, and forgot about the 79th article where the inspectors lost their powers. They forgot to change that. In point 1 of this Article is amended and refers to the Republic, but a new position relating to local government is added. It says - until the establishment of a top external audit institution, the local government's assembly will decide to hire an auditor with appropriate qualifications to carry out an external audit of the local government's final budget account. That provision could somehow pass, but now I'm asking you what's the penalty if it's not determined and it doesn't access the audit? Can one of these experts tell me what will be the sanctions under the Budget System Act? Just to remind you, in Article 74, where the violations are, there's no indication or call for a member of the 80s who regulates this external audit. That's the story, whether to submit the final bill, whether it can't be submitted, whether it's in time, whether it's audited or not, but DOS has concluded best and that the final account is not submitted and that's why 3-4 years has no final account. You will see how it will be with the second point of tomorrow's agenda, since the government has withdrawn its conclusion and its proposal, of course, because the National Assembly should manifest its impotence in this respect, and then Minister Dinkic will say - please, you did not determine the auditor, we do not care, we move on. The whole system designed not only to NATO troops through Serbia. G17 plus completes this financial work far more efficiently than any NATO pact.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18125	Of course, the congregation will certainly prove capable and appoint an auditor. Neither you nor I doubt this congregation. Do any other MPs want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18126	Dear People's MPs, this is the time of ten to ten, and at this time, when DOS came to power after October 5th, Serbian citizens were witnesses many times to watch footage of DOS leaders arrive at these famous sessions, when they made final decisions after October 5th, in special limos with security guards and cameras waiting at the entrance of a building, in some attic they met, and those decisions were made from 9 p.m. to 1-2 hours at night. What time it was, were both dark decisions and consequences for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Tonight or today, we are witnessing the humiliations of the National Assembly and People's MPs, and as a member of the Committee on Finance, I was present at the Committee's session when, on behalf of the Government, Minister Dinkic has been quick to say whether or not he accepts the amendments tabled in the Law on Imamation and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, as well as the budget rebalance for 2005. The full session of the Finance Committee, with more than 60 amendments, was completed in 15 to 20 minutes. It's the minister and government's relationship to this law and the law that we're going to discuss tomorrow, and the amendments that have been submitted to that law. The Treasury Administration, one of the main reasons for amending the Budget System Act, is by forming this Treasury Administration and giving these powers to that administration, or Finance Minister Dinkic. It is not without reason that this morning, on behalf of the Serbian government, he came to the National Assembly and withdrew this proposal that the National Assembly appoints authorised auditors to carry out a budget review for 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. Apparently, while this government, the majority that supports the government, and this is the DOS Plus government, there will be no report on the implementation of the budget for the previous years, nor will there be a revision of those budgets. At one of the meetings of the Finance Committee, I asked Minister Dinkic - what about the budget inspection, who controls spending and available funds when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to funds in local budgets? He replied that the budgetary inspection has only 12 employees and that there is no theoretical possibility for it to control and the budgets of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of local self-government. So there's no control in that part. But that's why Minister Dinkic and G17 heard that by amending the law, through half of the provisions of these amendments, they provided for this Treasury administration and the powers that the administration would also have as a minister. Since I've worked at the bank for a long time, this reminds me of some past time and an internal bank. These internal banks did business under large systems, even existed in public enterprises. They had their own good side, but as time went by, they turned into their opposite. They were parabanks, and this is an internal bank within the Ministry of Finance, which will be directly managed and managed by the G17 Plus. There is no head of the Albianic parliamentary group here. I have to read Article 42 and that, since I am over 30 years of modest legal knowledge and internship, to interpret the provisions of Article 42, are they logical and can they be applied. Article 42: "The Treasury Administration will begin work on 1 August 2005. The provisions of this law which are put outside the scope of the Act on the Budgetary System ("Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", No. 9/02 and 87/02 - in the following text: Law), which relate to the establishment and the work of the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance – The Treasury Sector will apply from the start of the work of the Treasury Administration. "I'll stop here. The provisions put out of force by this law, which enter into force on 1 August, will apply from the day of the start of the work of the Treasury Administration. Is it possible to apply the provisions that are put out of force? Article 46 says, "This law shall take effect the next day from the day of its publication." Item 2 of this Article: "Until the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance - the Treasury Sector, within its section, will continue to carry out the tasks set out in the Law and other regulations in force on the day of entry into force of this Act, which are carried out under the provisions of this Act by the Treasury Administration". Item 3 of this article: "Until the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the Public Payments Administration and the Ministry of Finance - the Treasury Sector, will also carry out the tasks to be placed in the jurisdiction of the Treasury Administration". Such provisions of Article 42 would not have been written by a beginner who had graduated from law school because they cannot be applied and the attitudes are contrary, especially in view of the position of 1st of this and the Article of the 46th Law. I have to go back and say briefly that the head of the Albianic parliamentary group did not understand or wanted to understand why I mentioned Minister Dinkic's trip to Japan, with FK President "Red Star" Stojkovic, and that proposal I made, that he was also taking part in that journey with the role he should have there. Nothing happens in life, and not by chance Minister Dinkic travels with Stojkovic to Japan, does not create any financial and business ties with Japan, and that something positively happens to the state of Serbia and the Serbian people. That road was designed with one goal. Recently, and this is already announced for several months, followed by the adoption of the law on sports, i.e. the privatisation of sports societies and sports clubs. The Red Star Sports Society, with a football club, is a big bite that has begun the battle of those who will privatise it, or kidnapped by those who created the club from the state of Serbia. To this end, Dinkic's journey with Stojkovic is now the struggle of certain mafia circles that will kidnap the Star, who will take Partizan and who will go through hierarchy, according to the power of the mafia lobbys that have already ruled Serbia. These mafia lobbies, in fact, also identify Minister Dinkic's proposals, his activity, the work of an entire party called G17 Plus, but unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia and the work of such a government led by Vojislav Kostunica. That's the bottom line of what I was about to say. Tomorrow I will be able to talk about amendments to budget rebalances, but it is unlikely that Minister Dinkic will be here, so I will give him the reasons why he and the G17 have been defined to keep the Commercial Bank as a single state bank.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18127	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how many of you are left to hear these final arguments for not accepting this law, article 43 says that "the day of the beginning of the Treasury Administration ceases with the work of the Public Payments Authority". Therefore, this larger centralisation, by setting up the Treasury Administration, i.e. the pooling, will replace this Djelic Public Payments Authority, and by the day of the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the finance minister will comply with this law on the internal organisation and systematisation of jobs in the Ministry of Finance. However, this second view is not something surprising, in the sense that it is a restriction only until the day of the work of the Treasury Administration, that the minister has such powers. No, he'll have them in the future, because he'll be the supervisor of the Treasury Department, which is founded and against whose establishment is the SRS. From the arguments that we present to you continuously for 12 hours, according to the amendments, with one hour's break, with further discussions on other topics of importance for the state and the people, which are being launched here, all economic theories, you will see tomorrow and when we discuss budgetary rebalancing, Minister Dinkic, who is the Master of Economic Sciences, crashes. And so on. The Bermuda Triangle theory, which speaks of the amount of money, on the one hand, and then the loans expected from that amount of money to be placed, to public finances, or to those asking for those loans, that is, the amount of money that these three segments of the Bermuda economic theory, must be reduced to one framework. It is also practical in this law and on the budgetary system above all, because it is the key to public finances both at the level of the Republic and at the level of local self-government, and through budget rebalances all by one move, whether because of the self-gratification, which I mean the basic motive of such a personal nature, I have seen also the way he has exhibited over two hours and talked about the rebalancing of the amendments of this law, and above all because he has unlimited power at the moment, and by the function he is acting as the manager of finance in this country, because it is so in his nature that he must be incompatible, the MPs who support him, and from all parties, even the MPs who belong to his political party, but it is not good. It is not good because the coming of the next government, and I believe it will be a radical government, but let the people decide, and we have very ready personnel for all ministerial posts, and it is especially important for us to have the Ministry of Finance, because we expect that it will not be as negative advent to the public as it is to Dinkic, according to the radical minister, because first of all, this man, or this person, will not be, regardless of what kind, or arrogant, nor will he treat those who are beneficiaries of the budget. Then, and I am telling you openly, we will have to amend this law because it is not even the law that you received from the EU recommendation, or the IMF, because the revised law in the almost integrated version is the one that was adopted while Bozidar Djelic was the minister. We were categorically against him, and then he led there now for some years, but it was not long ago, 2002, 2003, that in three phases, the reform of the financial sector would be implemented and the Public Payments Authority was founded and moved to pay traffic, the SDK was abolished. Now we come to this Article 43, or finale, when the Treasury Administration begins to work, what will it use, which equipment, which means and when this law will enter into force. In all these discussions led before you by the MPs of the SRS and the Serbian public, you could if you wanted to see that it is intact in financial terms, because the political power of Mladjan Dinkic and the party to which it belongs is absolutely zero, below any censorship and negligible, but financially in the way he can use it now, absolutely unlimited and we are explicitly fighting it. Because, according to the current positive legal standards, his behavior has had a negative impact on the work of financial institutions in our country, on local self-government, on all those who want to use tax money that they extract from their pockets with severe pain. When we go, because that's the basis to make both the budget and this law, as if we couldn't make budgets before. You know, at a time when the SRS was in power, even before that, there were financial experts, professors at economic colleges, economic experts, who were balancing the income and expenditure sides, but in the way Dinkic imagined it, and in line with the Budgetary System Law, you will see that there is one big gap because the budget is not balanced and that the mere thanks for the budget surplus is an empty story. By doing so, and by law like this, and through this false display of surpluses, which we will continue to talk about tomorrow, opens a wide front and spreads the beauty of the enemy. Who his enemies are, I mean figuratively speaking. All budget users and those who cry, and children, and farmers, and pensioners, and unemployed, all those who want loans, who want to keep all those promises. It's not a good thing it's such a law, it's not a good thing the Treasury is with such powers, and the worst of all is that in its boast, in a manner of care, the finance minister didn't show up in front of the MPs at all to hear one single argument about eradicating these members. They asked representatives of his party and those who supported him blindly, not seeing that we were right and that the arguments that we make from both the experience of people and the profession, and above all because the entire financial sector was poorly decorated by Djelic's time, so to speak, wanted to show the public and to prove to you that they were right MPs in the way that was only possible, to delete it. To erase a law that's very bad. Not only are it not retrograde motives, as someone wanted to present it, but the budgetary balance and public finance management are much more enforceable and it is much better to do it in a way that is done by earlier laws, along with some of the changes that could exist, than it was to vote primarily the Law on the budgetary system in 2002 and 2003, and now to amend and supplement that Djelic's law, or even more radical measures in terms of the financial monopoly given to one man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18129	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has been given by the People's MP Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18130	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, amendment of the SRS MP, counterpart Natasha Jovanovic, to be a member of 43. The bill is deleted for several reasons. They are mostly mentioned by Natasa Jovanovic, but I will mention some of the reasons we in the SRS parliamentary group that it is necessary to, as well as this whole law and this Article 43. Proposal of the law, deletes. Here in the position of Article 2 43. The bill states that by the day of the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the finance minister will comply with the draft law on internal organisation and the systematisation of jobs in the Ministry of Finance. The bill provides for a local government vault. How the local government will, in accordance with this bill, because no other law regulates the matter of the local government vault, except for this bill, which you are likely to adopt by your MP majority in the day to vote. How will that local government, tied to the vault, coordinate its acts and to what deadline, which are treating this matter? Whether, in this sense, you can refer to analogy and whether it exists, it's not clear enough. Personally, I don't think there's any analogy here, and you can't, by legal analogy, connect and call in the order of this same matter when it comes to the local government vault. I don't know why you're in such a hurry, especially when in Article 46, the last member, you say this law comes into force the next day of publication. The rule has been vaccio legis, that every law in the eighth day of publication, especially since you may not have much time to finish the debate on this bill tonight, to vote in the voting day, to publish it, to enter into force, so that the finance minister can adopt a regulation on the internal organisation and sitematisation of jobs by August 1st, and is a special story for the local government's vault. What is important for local authorities, and this is already discussed during a debate on an earlier amendment, how they can in local self-government suffer sanctions on two grounds and that the responsible list of penalties under the increased proposal amounts to between five and 50,000, as opposed to the earlier fines of between two and 20,000, and in all respects that the minister, in charge of finance affairs, is denied, or the transfer of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget is suspended until the time of the delivery of certain acts to the Ministry of Finance. Of course, there's additional financial discipline being introduced here, on the one hand. And on the other hand, there's no major financial flows, no production, and everything's stopped, it's troublesome everywhere, people are hard to live. There is a social misery and economic crisis. On this occasion, there's something else I'd like to mention. I have repeatedly followed this speaker, and even today, I mentioned that the Scientological sect has entered our financial system greatly. I'm sorry that some MPs from G17 plus me understood, or I uneasyly said, what I don't believe, when I mentioned and now when I mention scientology, it's exclusively about Miroljub Labus and the information that appeared in July 2004 on the Internet address of this very scientological sect, where they announced that Miroljub Labus is a prominent member of scientology. So it exclusively links synantology to financial flows through Miroljub Labus, and neither does G17 plus nor G17 plus MPs, nor any citizen in the Republic of Serbia. So to clarify this misunderstanding, because the MPs of the G17 plus, I don't believe they were angry for a reason, it's only possible that I said it unsettledly. That's the truth. Even the Scientological sect published this information on the Internet. It is entitled n.w. ikipedia.org. You can check if it's still standing on that internet address. One more thing, if I have time, Mr. President, there's been enough talk about an agreement signed by Vuk Draskovic. I have noted in today's debate on certain amendments that the NATO military is coming to Serbia and is using our traffic, roads and enjoying full criminal and legal immunity. I will only say that in the first year of Macedonia, thanks to NATO soldiers, 140 car accidents occurred, of which 10 deaths, killed 10 people, but one case was marked when Norwegian Captain Wesley Adon Christian blamed the accident in August 1999, in which Macedonian Minister Radovan Stojanovski, his wife, daughter and driver died. Not to mention other cases, when an Albanian girl was murdered and raped in January 2000, not far from Vitina in Cosmet. It was found to be an American KFOR member, who was later transferred to Manheim, Germany. We just have to pray to God, we have no other solution, since you signed this anti-constitutional capitulation, Vuk Draskovic directly, probably with the consent of Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, I say, probably, of course, I'm not sure, and the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic. There'll be more black days for us than they've ever been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18131	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 44th amendment. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18132	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are slowly bringing to an end the final consideration of this radical proposal of the Nastarad law. We come up with one more point, in addition to what Minister Dinkic wants to put his paw on everything that smells like money in Serbia, Article 44, and it is related to Article 43, so I read it: "On the day of the beginning of work, the Treasury Office will take over employees and continue to use equipment and other means for work that the Treasury Administration uses on the day of the start of work and the Ministry of Finance - the vault sector". Why is it about Article 43? "The day of the work of the Treasury Administration ceases with the work of the Public Payments Authority. By the day of the start of the work of the Treasury Administration, the finance minister will comply with this law, the Internal Organisation Regulation and the Systematization of Jobs in the Ministry of Finance." Now we're coming up with this, there may be some personnel left unscheduled or inadequately deployed to G17. Those who glued posters, were in the stands, now the minister must put them away. Where they're going to put them, right in the vault office. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, all the factories, even the ones they do a little bit, they shut down one after another, our agencies grow, our administrations grow. There is an extremely large productivity, two pens are spent and settled in their own people. After the next parliamentary elections, and I hope that they will come soon, I know where the finance minister will be located, it remains for you to guess.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18133	Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 45th amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cetrovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. The 46th amendment, essentially in the same text, was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Jovan Todorovic. The proposer and the Finance Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy. Just to inform the MPs, this is the last amendment we're considering tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18134	Article 46. The draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act reads: "This law comes into force the next day from the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". This bill sets out some of the reasons why the proposer considers that this law should enter into force earlier than the provision of the Constitution which requires that the laws enter into force as early as the eighth day of publication in the Official Messenger. I don't want to get into the justification of these reasons, because whether or not these reasons exist or not, it's only a form that at least one sentence is listed under one of these titles. I want to point out, I'm sorry, there are no MPs here, G17 plus, there's the president, I'd ask you to remind Miroljub Labus of the years he was a federal envoy at the Federal Assembly Council. I would also ask the DSS MPs to remind their MP at the time, Government of Jankovic. I would also ask the SPS MPs to remind Zoran Angelkovic, and Milomir Minic and other MPs who were also MPs to the Federal Assembly Council. Not to mention, I remind you all of something that is one of the basic principles of the budget system, which is that laws, similar to these on the budget system, mean - the rules of material nature that define public spending, public revenue and public expenditure, can be changed, but that they, as a rule, only take effect next financial year. It is a standard that ensures the stability of public finances, because with changes in public finances it takes an incomparably longer time for all those who are obliged to apply that regulation to meet. This means that if most in this assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia opted for one such change, there is no reason for the law to enter the next day from the day of publication, but on the eighth day of publication, and the first next budget to be worked in accordance with the amended provisions of the Budgetary System Act can only be the 2006 budget. This was a standard long time ago, it is an international standard not to change the rules regarding public spending, public revenues and public expenditure during the financial year, in order to ensure the stability of the budgetary system for one longer period and that practically these changes can only take effect next year. Here it is going in reverse order, and it is noted that because of the need for budget rebalances for 2005 it is necessary to amend the basic Budgetary System Act, so it literally changes logic. A budget law that is the executive regulation and needs of the government, as it has come up with, changes the system regulation in the budget system and thus ensures that it enters into force much earlier than is prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. And this fact shows that it is being manipulated with secret meetings, with secret accounts, with very dangerous things in the budget spending of the Republic of Serbia, because if everything was normal and if someone had planned budget rebalancing in 2005, probably this budget system law would have been on the agenda much earlier with these and such changes as they are offering. Here you sail in a blurry, quick, to take advantage of this opportunity of vacations, these media halls that were created, to direct public attention to other very important issues, and to do this dirty work in some relative silence. Remind both Labus and these others who were MPs in the Federal Assembly, what I'm telling you right now, that's what they've been saying for years in the Federal Assembly, and they've opposed the amendments to the Funding Act with the SRJ and the amendments to the SRJ budget, so I can tell you by the years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Based on what I've said, it can be concluded that not only has the standard applied in the budget system been violated, but what is called a democratic procedure has been broken, that what means respect for democratic principles has been violated, and all of them, speakers from 1994, 1995, 1996 and beyond, have forgotten, because it is a huge huge, why don't you say, and the personal interest of those people who designed this system, and that in this way and so quickly changes this system regulation. To conclude, if you wanted to change the regulation, change it, but according to the changes, you can still do the 2006 budget. Before that, it is impossible to apply these provisions. You've made your own kind of an inversion, you've gone on a proposal to amend and supplement the budget as it suits you, you've made it, so let's go back and see what needs to be changed to the basic Budget System Act. All this suggests that this will be a very dishonest matter, and this few MPs that are here I warn, inform your presidents of the parliamentary clubs, inform the presidents of your parties, inform people in your parties who have little understanding of these things, inform the public of Serbia, inform everyone in order of what is being prepared, which follows us by the end of this financial year. Remember at the very end. Believe me, in December of this year and January of next year, everyone will be bound by both this law on the budgetary system and the budget rebalancing law for 2005. As I have reminded you before, what is inevitably to come, and I am using this opportunity to inform you, and you should consider this when deciding on the amendments to the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18135	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Baralic. I'm taking the opportunity to ask everyone not to ask your party bosses, but to do what is available to everyone to read the Constitution. It is an honorable matter, as Mr Krasic would say. Article 120 clearly states - the law, other regulations or general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication, unless, for particularly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force before, and such reasons will be decided by this National Assembly, in which all the MPs who have elected citizens sit. Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18136	Good evening, Serbia, what would you say? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is clear that this correlation between the executive and the system rules, and I understand what Mr. Krasic is talking about here and to this extent I support, as I support the principle that this is what Mr. President is talking about, that the acts adopted in the National Assembly whenever possible on the eighth day, or that they take effect on the eighth day of publication, because the acts we adopt here are the product of the consequences. Those to whom the acts apply should have enough time to prepare themselves, to accept a new solution, a new law, if it is a law or any other act, if that is the case. We here bring amendments and additions to two laws, and they refer to local self-government, to the congregations of the cities of autonomous provinces. Since this is about a consolidated account, it's about funds. It would be an explanation why it would be important, and I also understood our colleague Joc Todorovic, who, in the same text as Mr Krasic, submitted this amendment, Mr Jovan Todorovic and myself from the SPS, because that is the principle, and I would not be so dramaticly defending that position, if someone would explain to me why it is necessary to amend and supplement these two laws on the day of publication, although I would like to say, I would like to say that if they were exceptions if it were not a practice. We sometimes know how to just end the law and say it takes effect on the day of publication, and that's not good. So we leave the impression that I'm doing something in the extortion, that we're under some kind of press or something, that we're being recalculated somewhere, etc., but this isn't the key amendments that could depend on the fate of the law. So, in principle, we advocate that all the acts adopted by the Assembly have the importance of eight days from the day of publication and I think that few can object, but of course there is an exception and there is a reason to sometimes ensure a different functioning, by asking all my colleagues once again not to become a practice. That's what's happening to us here. If we analyze the various laws we've passed and other acts, we'll see that's what it was. In my understanding, more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18137	Thank you, Mr. Baralic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18138	This, Mr. Markovic, is a replica of what you made as a remark. First, it is incorrect for you to comment while I pass, because I did not ask you to hurt the Rules of Procedure or teach the MPs, that's the first thing. The other thing is, you're the one who turned what I said. I said that formal-legislative is enough only to state in the explanation the title, the reasons and to state one sentence and that it formally represents a coverage in accordance with the Constitution, but that it is essentially contrary to what is called standards. You're pursuing those standards. Just to remind you that this is the standard of this Europe that you are seeking, and you in this way, not you specifically, but, first of all, the Government in this way opposes that Europe where you are going. For your attention, I must point to the next thing you know. How, then, is it possible to pass on the same day a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System and amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2005, because at the time those two acts were delivered, the law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act could not have been based on the draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, but only on the basis of the applicable Law on the Budgetary System at that time. I want to tell you that you can't solve this problem. You can't solve it with either appeal, or in a way that you're going to close your eyes and say, well, we've overstepped something, but there's some legitimate interest. For what I say does not exist, there is not allowed to be a legitimate interest. The day you submitted the draft budget rebalancing law for 2005, it had to be done in accordance with the then applicable text of the Budgetary System Act. You made it in accordance with the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. You will have the situation that, on the same day in point 1 of the vote on amending the Budgetary System Act, as well as on point 2 of the amending budget for 2005, which was made not within five minutes between the two votes, but made a few dozen days before, when there was no amended Budgetary System Act, but that Djelic's law. It's impossible to remove, that lack is impossible to remove. Therefore, among other things, this standard applies, if the general regulation is amended, a system regulation that defines public spending, it must be respected only for the next financial year. It can't be during one financial year, when the system law is changed, that the change be installed immediately through budget rebalances. You will not remove this deficit by quoting or by twisting what I have said or by interpreting Article 120, especially if you start reading article 69. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He's talking about how it's necessary, when every law is passed, that whoever passed the law says where the funds were provided, who provided them. This is impossible what you're doing. I'm not arguing with you as most people that you can run over anything you want, so you're gonna do it, I know it, but I'm doing this for the public. Especially for the public's sake, I'm warning you what Labus was like 12 years ago, 10 years ago, and what he's like today. What MPs were from the SPS 10-15 years ago when they were in power, because they accepted it, and they didn't want to do it quickly either. I saw even one MP from the DSS, as he was the only one at the time at the Council of Citizens of the Federal Assembly, who also represented this principle that I represent. Now that you've come to power, there's no principle. Tell me where you're real.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-20-0.u18139	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. I didn't understand the replica, because I didn't comment on this part of your presentation in any way, but I am under my obligation to lead the Assembly according to the Rules of Procedure, and Article 27 says - the chairman. In this context, I called on MPs not to ask their party leaders what they represented in the past, but to do what their job is and what is relevant to their decision-making, which is to obey the Constitution. And I have stated the exact provision of the Constitution, and it is my duty to work by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure, and I expect it from others. So it wasn't that kind of comment in any way. If there was a need, I'd point that out. Thank you, anyway. We've heard again the argument I'm usually in favour of. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed a search of the bill in particular, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with discussion in particular. Thank you.
