ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall and that we can begin today's working day. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Radoslav Jovic. In accordance with Article 84(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 84(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the act in the proposed agenda of the session as soon as possible. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before setting out the agenda for the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate. Since 126 MPs are not present at this time, it is not possible to say this moment about the proposals for an emergency procedure and the merger of the debate. I'm taking a break until 10:30. Thank you. [[After break – 11.00 hours]] The honourable MPs, since, by electronic system, there are still 126 MPs in the O.R., we are extending the break to 12.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, this session today cannot be held with a set agenda, or a draft agenda on which the National Assembly is yet to be declared. Namely, by referring to article 86, and in a situation where it suits you because you have a crisis in your parliamentary majority, and you cannot at a time when you have called a session to collect a minimum of 126 MPs, you have, in your very own way, violated the Rules of Procedure by interpreting that today, October 12th, a simple working day for the National Assembly, which apparently is, with the MPs of your majority not understanding it. But this is not a working day where we need a minimum majority of the 1/3 MPs present. For today, we have received a whole new proposal for the agenda, on which the Assembly should declare itself. You can't apply article 86 today in item 1 and 2, the way you did it at 10.10, at 11.00 hours, and then at 12.00 hours, applying Article 86(4) again who knows which time you broke the Rules of Procedure without blinking, just laughing, however, almost 30 seconds more than that, because within 30 seconds you couldn't determine that there are 126 MPs in the room. All of this you did before, that you imagined that this is the day in which only one third is needed, because that working day in the Assembly is understood when the session is under way and when we should continue to discuss the points of the agenda, which have been adopted in the agenda, and when it is voting day and when the beginning of a whole new session, as it has been called from today, you could not have been able to postpone the session. Since you violated it and came to the situation that at 12:00 p.m. you would again invite the MPs to move most of the 126 at the time when there were 124 or 125 MPs, based on the electronic system, you could, if you wanted to apply article 86, only ask for a call to be determined, which they even suggested and suggested to you by some MPs from your parliamentary majority, that there might be more MPs in the room. But it wouldn't have worked out for you either because by calling me at that point, if you'd done it... If these two came to you later, that's another thing, but it's still not enough MPs, because the process of calling would not be attended by Serbian Radical Party MPs, because you know that we never give a quorum to start work or start a session, as we didn't do today, even though some others in Serbia would like to think about the opposition. Today we have made it clear to you loud and clear, which I am now doing, advertising this member of the Rules of Procedure, saying that you have broken it and that you did not have the basic conditions to start work. You can't do this now... Of course, if you currently have 126 MPs, you can do anything, but you should not play with the Rules of Procedure that you have proposed and brought, with opposition from the Serbian Radical Party, because in this way and through the continuation of such behaviour, the National Assembly would play. After all, yesterday, the head of our parliamentary group, Mr Nikolic, told you that there is no more order, no order, no morals in the National Assembly, and I am not surprised today with this kind of behavior. I ask that the Parliament in voting day declare that today you have violated Article 86 most flagrantly. Rules of Procedure, and if you want to respect the Rules of Procedure and the National Assembly, postpone, as the Rules of Procedure say, the beginning of tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20442	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. I understand your insistence and the assembly will have to plead. For the sake of the present, I would like to say -- Article 86, paragraph 1, says: "The President of the National Assembly is opening a session of the National Assembly and, on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, the number of MPs attending the sittings is determined. "The position 2 states: "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day in the session room at least 1/3 of the MPs are not present, the session will be postponed by one hour." However, it is point 5, as the session began and came to what point 5 is saying: "The quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when the minutes from the previous session were adopted", which is now not on the agenda, "and the establishment of the agenda", which we reached when we started working day, "as well as at the constitutional session of the National Assembly", which is not, "there is if there is a session of the National Assembly of At least 126 Members present". That's the quorum we've been waiting for. The assembly will declare itself in voting day. Thank you for understanding. The word is Mr. Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20443	Mr. Markovic, you have injured several members of the Rules of Procedure. First, Article 104(1), which states that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Then, you injured Article 100, which says in point 1: "To a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed." Paragraph 2 states: "The MP is obliged to specify which provision of the Rules of Procedure in his opinion is injured, to quote and explain what the injury consists of, with the ability to speak for the longest three minutes, without counting the time needed to quote. "Specially pay particular attention to this provision, because I will quote several members of the Rules of Procedure, and only when I am done with quotes can you start counting down these three minutes that I have to explain how a breach of the Rules of Procedure occurred. Article 3 says the president of the assembly is obliged to give an explanation afterwards. "If, even after an explanation by the National Assembly, the MP remains in charge of the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. "When our colleague, Mrs Natasa Jovanovic, said that in her opinion the Rules of Procedure were injured, you, regardless of the provision set out in Article 3, said in advance that the Assembly would declare it. You were obliged to give an explanation and then give Ms. Natashi Jovanovic a chance to state whether she is satisfied or not with your explanation, so that only then, if she is not satisfied, this is put to the vote. As for Article 86, Section 5 clearly states when there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. So I will read it once again - the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting days, when the minutes are adopted from the previous session and the establishment of the agenda - what is most important in this case - exists if at least 126 MPs are present at the session. So this morning at 10.00 hours, not ten hours and ten minutes, but at ten o'clock there were going to be 126 MPs present. It was the only condition, contio son qua non, a condition without which you could not and without whom you could not begin the session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly session begins by establishing the quorum. You can't say - we started the session, and we'll find the quorum later in the day, so it'll be at 11:00, and if it's not at 12:00, then if it's not at 12:00, then it'll be at 12:45. Then you absolutely don't need 84 MPs to begin the session at ten in the morning. If you apply such an interpretation of this provision, then you can start a session with five MPs and wait for ten, eleven, twelve, so if there are times in the day a sufficient number of MPs, then you will determine the quorum. If he doesn't show, you won't. Mr. Markovicu, you have an exceptional responsibility, as president of the National Assembly, and you are also obliged and in accordance with Article 27 to respect both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and to take care of its application. This is the Rules of Procedure that you yourself have proposed. This is your baby. We were against this Rules of Procedure, we voted against it, but now, unfortunately, we have to apply it. Your duty is even greater. So you didn't respect, first of all, the obligation to start work at 10.00 hours. So, not at 10.10 p.m., but exactly at 10.00 p.m., you were under obligation. If you didn't have a quorum then you had to postpone by 11.00. Article 86(3) says – unless there are no conditions for starting work after the start of the session, the session shall be postponed for the next working day. So, at 11.00 p.m., when you didn't have 126 MPs, which is clear, you were in charge of the Rules of Procedure, which you yourself suggested and which your congregation majority voted to postpone this session for the next day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20444	So, I'll keep going. Highly respecting the Assembly, so in this way and trusting the MP what he said, as Miss Jovanovic said in advance that she would ask for the Assembly to make a statement about it, so I acted on it, respecting Article 100 and, according to Article 3, I did give an explanation anyway, because that is what the Rules of Procedure obliges me to do, but also, according to attitude 4, which requires that the MP declare whether he is satisfied or not, respected the opinion that Miss Jovanovic made publicly when she said she was asking for the Assembly to plead; why would I not trust the MP, so she asked for three minutes to check. I remind you once again that the position of Article 1 is true, because I see that MPs who were not present do not have accurate information: "The President of the National Assembly is opening a session of the National Assembly and, on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, the number of MPs attending the session is determined. "It was done this morning and based on official records in the O.R. it was 126. The members who speak of the necessity of the beginning of 84 are then applied, but there is no reason not to discuss it. If you remain in the opinion that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, then the Assembly will declare it in the voting day. You're staying in that opinion, I hope. You're not staying or staying? Here you go. After an explanation by the president, MP Nemanja Sarovic will declare whether he accepts the explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20445	I don't know, Mr. Markovic, if you want me to throw it out of the bench so you can give me a warning. I've warned you before that I don't want to communicate at all in this way, both unofficially and unofficially, as you tried earlier when you took a break. I can only communicate with you from this pay phone. So, of course I'm not happy with the explanation you gave me. I think it's a scandalous explanation, and since you're not a lawyer, I'll have patience and will to teach you a little. I'll start with Article 1 86. Be careful, Mr. Markovic, that attitude says: "The National Assembly is opening a session of the National Assembly and, on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, the number of MPs attending the session is determined. "So, on the basis of the official record, which is collected before the entrance to the O.R., read how many people came into this room today. These include DS MPs who participate, who participate in the bar, down at the restaurant and other things, but do not participate in the quorum. The quorum was never determined based on the number of people who passed the hall. The quorum, as it goes on to tell you, is the position of Article 6, 86, it says, "The quorum is determined by the application of the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit. "So, when we get into the O.R. So to open the session you have to have met the preconditions. We will agree on one thing, that you cannot open with five messengers a session of the National Assembly. So, you are told Article 2 as long as it takes at the beginning of the ordinary working day: "If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day in the session room at least one third of the MPs are not present, the session will be postponed by one hour. "This is a situation relating to those days when we have a fixed agenda, when we work on the agenda points either in principle, or in the discussion in particular. So, when determined, you have a special provision, an imperative provision that regulates the situation when the agenda is determined and that is Article 86(5). That's where you can't interpret it one way or another. All you have to do is obey that provision. So, the quorum for the work of the National Assembly when the agenda is determined there are at least 126 MPs present at the meeting of the National Assembly. That's your first condition you have to meet in order to start a session. So, Mr. Markovic, you can behave as you wish, but you absolutely have to respect this Rules of Procedure. If you do not, then it is our duty to warn you not to do it, not to violate it. One more thing, I invite you to use your influence and authority a little bit, if at all after things like this and a little bit of the rest, to calm down those present in the hall, because I really can't hear myself and I can't even hear those explanations that you give me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20446	First, I welcome the gallery of members of the Turkish parliament; unfortunately, the meeting has been interrupted, and now the assembly's work is being monitored. Then, please, for the dignity of the National Assembly, that all MPs respect those obligations to which they are called. You have just read, so: "The quorum is determined by applying the electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting the identification card into the MP's unit. "Of course, while respecting, above all, the political definitions of the various MPs and their right to plead in different ways during the session, I have not said a warning yet, but it is really hypocritical to read all this and to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Be kind, wait, I'm giving an explanation to the Rules of Procedure. Then once again, I remind you that two are completely different things. Once again, Paragraph 1 states: "The President of the National Assembly opens a session of the National Assembly and, on the basis of official records of the presence of the MPs, finds the number of MPs attending the sitting. "The president must adhere to this provision. I say once again, according to situations, such as the voting situation on the agenda, there must be a quorum and it's defined as the quorum is determined. We haven't gotten to the agenda in this session yet. I hope you're satisfied with the clarification, Mr. Sarovic? You haven't, you've called in the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20447	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Markovic, I am, of course, not satisfied with the explanation and I want my previous violation of the Rules of Procedure to be declared by Parliament in the voting day, but you have now violated Article 104, where it is said that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and the position of the 2nd member, where MPs are said to be obliged to address each other with respect. Mr Markovic, I can understand that you cannot understand these provisions, regardless of what you have suggested, but you do not have the right to take offense to MPs, regardless of which group they are from. You can't tell anyone that he's hypocritical, and at least for me, because if anyone here is hypocritical, Mr. Markovic, it's you. Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 27, you are required to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. If you think anyone has earned a warning, me or anyone else, I invite you to give these reminders, but I'm going to have to explain some other provisions to you. Mr Markovicu, Article 86(6), says the quorum is determined by the application of an electronic voting system in such a way that each MP is required to identify himself when entering the hall by inserting an identification card into the parliamentary unit. I have done my duty, Mr. Markovic. You can check it out, take a list and see if my card has been inserted or not, but thanks to the Rules of Procedure that you have proposed, I no longer have an obligation during the day that one second my card is inserted. So it's my right, and if I'm going to do it or not... So, I keep you informed, I put it in at the beginning, I pull it out later, and I don't want to throw it in anymore. If you think you can, go ahead, give me a warning, take away my word, do whatever you want. It's your right. In order for you to have the beginning of the session, you must have 126 MPs. You cannot say – we started the session, so now we will establish the agenda and establish the quorum. Then how did you start the session? You tried, Mr. Markovic, to begin the session, but you failed because not all conditions were met. You didn't have 126 MPs. So when you have, then you can start the session. I am now asking you to apply this Rules of Procedure. If you think I've done anything wrong, that I've done any damage to the Rules of Procedure, here's a warning, and otherwise I'm asking you to apologize for the insults you've previously made to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20448	Thank you. Since I have already given an explanation by reading clearly, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, by reading the Rules of Procedure and we have received the answer that he is not pleased with the MP... Please, just a moment, excuse me, so please, so a little tolerance, there's no reason, ladies and gentlemen, don't. Is there anyone else answering the Rules of Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20449	Mr. Markovic, I ask you to allow me to speak here without delay, because Article 103, Mr. Markovic, says, "No one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. During the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. "So, if anyone has anything to say, let him report to the Rules of Procedure, and let him go out and share it with us. Mr. Markovic, I must say that this majority of yours (or perhaps not most) is extremely nervous, I must say that they are not satisfied with the provisions of your Rules of Procedure. Maybe it's time for you to propose another change, so it's a little bit more restrictive, to end this right to report to the Rules of Procedure, maybe you should completely suspend our right to report or enter the O.R. There was a good proposal just now from Mr. Momir Markovic, maybe you should hold the sessions in that little hall, maybe you could round up the quorum there, and maybe a little quorum for a small hall, for a small government, a minority support, would be better than this right now. So, Mr. Markovic, you are required, in accordance with Article 100, to give me an explanation every time I go out to point out that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. So you won't be able to, I'm warning you to just get over it. You just made a few insults at my expense. You said I was being hypocritical, that I didn't understand the rules of the Rules of Procedure, that I was confused, and I don't know what. You can personally have an opinion about me, I don't care, but when you come out here, or when you sit in the chair seat, then you have to respect me and every other MP and act in accordance with the function that you've been chosen to do. So ignore your vanity, ignore your personal attitudes, carry out your obligation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Answer me, give me an explanation for the violation of the Rules of Procedure I pointed to, and it's more than obvious that you hurt him. So you have to give an explanation, you have to explain whether you need 126 MPs to start a session, whether what you sit here and say -- let us determine the quorum, so you don't determine it, can be considered starting a session. Then this Rules of Procedure is absolutely unnecessary; you can tear up not only Article 86, but everything else. So your will has gone beyond measure. You are now acting the way Natasa Micic acted at the same time. I warn you, Mr. Markovic, if you continue to behave like this, then you will take the place she is taking today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20450	Thank you. So, once again, because I'm obliged to give an explanation. It is identical to all previous clarifications, but while respecting the MPs and not pleading about them, I can always read it again, but since I have to respect all MPs, I have no intention of harassing MPs again by reading to them something clearly written in Article 86 from Article 1 to Article 6. Thank you. Of course, it is very clear, since it is forbidden to throw the speaker and disrupt the order, therefore, of course, the president of the National Assembly is obliged to give this clarification. Of course, the MP can remain on the claim and this time I ask MP Nemanja Sarovic whether he remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I'm not inviting him to speak, but I'm asking him in front of all of you if he's staying on the claim, with the belief that he's capable, because I appreciate him being able to give a sign of whether he's staying on that claim. If that is not possible, I ask him to explain whether he remains on this claim. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20451	Mr. Markovic, even now I've had a good will and to break up with this, but this was extremely incorrect. So, whether I, Mr. Markovic, am capable or not, don't make a point. It will be determined by Serbian citizens. This is neither the time nor the place where it is determined. I'm warning you again, stop with the hypocrite you've been performing with all day. So it is extremely incorrect for you to address the MPs in this way. I have the right to go out for this pay phone and say what I have to say. So I don't need to communicate with you. I plead before the National Assembly whether I am satisfied with your explanation or not. I have nothing to do with you personally, and you have to understand that. So, I'm going to go out for this pay phone, when you come out of this hallway and explain yourself for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then maybe that way I'll be able to plead whether I'm satisfied or not. As long as you abuse the chairman's seat, you make such comments as you do, then you can only expect that every time, very patiently, I will go out for this pay phone and say whether I'm satisfied with the explanation or not. So, as for the harassment of MPs, Mr. Markovic, you should either try to concentrate or try to record which members of the Rules of Procedure I point to when I go out. So this time, in addition to the fact that I have now stated some new views of the 86th article that they are injured, I have also pointed to an injury. 104, 100 and 101. You should provide an explanation for all the members of the Rules of Procedure that I consider to have been injured, not only to give to one that you consider necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20452	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Although Article 100's position clearly states that there's no need for an MP who called for an injury... So don't say anything about the MP speaking to the Assembly, on the contrary, saying that in the event that, following an explanation by the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim, therefore, in no way changes it, the National Assembly, without a search, decides on it in the day of the vote. Of course, a stenogram is being conducted and it is possible to see if the president has responded to remarks concerning all members. Thank you. After hearing the explanation in detail, I realized, like you, that Mr. Sarovic disagreed with the explanation given to him, and the National Assembly will declare this in the voting day. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20453	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, I warn you at the beginning of today, as you say, on a working day, although today is the day when we have a whole new session and agenda you haven't been able to determine until 13.05 p.m., that you are not insulting the MPs and that, in future, when you are in the chair, you have a perfectly correct, normal and decent communication. You know that we Serbian radicals are MPs who follow the rules of conduct and of this kind of supernadarian Rules of Procedure, unlike many who accidentally came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now they're lucky, they won't be on the political map in the next election. We claim that we do not have problems like this in the next election, because we will be able to do without problems with 126 MPs always to determine the agenda, and that is at least 126. Now, while you are in the chair, I must say that it is extremely incorrect for you to address your colleague Nemanja Sarovic in such a way today on several occasions. He has well-intentioned you, and above all it is his right and obligation under Article 1. Rules of Procedure, have warned that you're interpreting article 86 in the first place. If you go back a few minutes, you'll see where your insolence has gone. You told colleagues Sarovic, after several injuries to the Rules of Procedure, where he was right, and you gave him no adequate answer and explanation and it had to remind you, when he went to the pay phone to tell you that he was not satisfied with the explanation, clearly and loudly – if you were able to give me a signal if you could make a statement about it. Mr. Markovic, you're going to be making all kinds of faces behind the speaker's back, winking, that you're certainly acting as chairman. If you expect us to get laid, like you do, from the MP benches, don't, we're serious people. We intend to bring down this government and we intend to rule in this country in accordance with democratic principles in the future. Outside the congregation hall you can try and make fun of us; we practice it, and talk to you when we meet in the hallway or anywhere in the building. But when you're in the chairman's seat, leave yours, as the kids would say, cools and cools for somewhere else. This is a serious institution, though morally and certainly destroyed, but an institution that should be respected by citizens, and primarily by MPs and you, as chairman. Mr Nemanja Sarovic is also capable, a young man, educated, one of the most active MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and really doesn't deserve to be addressed in this way. I warn you that you judge the capacity of an MP in your head and keep your opinions to yourself, the abilities of anyone elsewhere. We're responsible people here who want to do our job properly. You do not allow this, because you are not using the option, or you are not giving us the option from the Rules of Procedure that you yourself have promoted as its promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20454	Thank you, Miss Jovanovic. Since there was no call for a member of the Rules of Procedure, the president is not obliged to give clarification. (Natasa Jovanovic: Article 100) Please, of course I reserve the right to believe in the ability of the MPs and to inform the MPs of this and I do not think it is offensive. So I still believe in the ability of MPs. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic appears. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20455	Mr Markovic, if you believe or do not believe in the ability of the MPs, I really don't care. If you wanted to claim for yourself the right to assess whether someone was capable of pleading from the bench or from this pay phone, then you should have done so in an appropriate way and suggested it in this Rules of Procedure, and then acted accordingly. So Article 100: "If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will, without a search, decide on the issue on the day of the vote. "Mr Markovic, this "without a search", means that this issue will not be open for a special debate, that it will not be a part of the agenda, that the parliamentary groups will not have the total time of five hours to discuss it, that we will not propose lists of speakers on the issue, but that the National Assembly will declare it in the voting day. Mr Markovicu, Article 102 tells you how the MP can be declared whether he is satisfied with the explanation given or not. It is not appropriate, it is said later in Article 106, that the MP declares himself from the place, to throw, to shout or anything else, and that is obviously the manner that you want to introduce into the National Assembly. Article 102 says, "No one should approach the speaker until the president of the National Assembly allows it. No one can speak at the National Assembly session before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly." So the only way I could use my right, in accordance with Article 100(4), is to report, as I've answered, to go out for this pay phone and tell the National Assembly whether I'm satisfied with the explanation. So, I ask you not to insult the Members of the People in the future and I ask you to respect this Rules of Procedure, to allow everyone to exercise the right of the Rules of Procedure. Also, I demand you explain to me whether you have violated Article 102(2).
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20456	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Of course, the president did not violate Article 102, because he is not talking at all about how he will stay with the People's MP, but is talking about the order at the session, which the president is in debt, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, among other things, to apply, and he says, "No one should approach the speaker until he is allowed by the President of the National Assembly," that did not happen. "No one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before they ask and receive a word from the president of the National Assembly" – that is not what happened, not everyone who asked got the word, came with the permission of the president and turned. So this article wasn't broken. Mrs. Radeta reported to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20457	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly of Article 27, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. From 10 a.m. this morning, the president of the National Assembly is not concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure, i.e. from 10 to 13,15, several members of this Rules of Procedure have been violated. It's really unserious that you're trying, because there are 126 of you, but obviously many are in a hurry, so every second or every next minute, you'll be less than 126 and you won't be able to vote the agenda. So, it's unserious that you abuse that fact that you still have a majority in the congregation and that you allow yourself to make out of the Parliament the straw of Alajbek. You've done enough when you've brought a book like this. We told you then that it was restrictive, that it was non-democratic, but you disobeyed us, you had most of it, and you adopted it. You could have said at the time that you didn't need a majority to adopt the agenda either. We couldn't vote you. You were wrong, you voted that at least during the agenda you must have a majority. Then you really have to have it and you have to provide it. You can't play, and at 10:00 you say it continues at 11:00, so at 11:00 it continues at 12. At 11 o'clock, you had to tell us to pick up tomorrow at 10 o'clock. That's the only thing right about the Rules of Procedure. I'm pretty sure all the lawyers in this room know that. You know, Mr. Predregovic, I don't doubt it, but you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, it'll come back to you. Those who force you to do so will probably pass only by being no longer in this House, and you have much more and much wider responsibilities because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I understand you're not sitting in this room, you're not used to it, that's why you've introduced this kind of Rules of Procedure, because you're not interested in what's going on here. You walk here, you 10, 20, at the top of your head 30 sits in this room. I see now that you are very angry with the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party because we are trying to point to the proper application of this Rules of Procedure, and you are angry because you think that you are sitting in this room for an hour and a half. Believe me, it's not about us. As far as we're concerned, feel free to go, we'll be here both tomorrow at 10 and the day after 10:00. We're here to work, and you're here to sneak around the assembly and this room. I'm sorry, but you'll have to listen to us. We will continue to warn against the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who has no patience, please come out. I guess you have a total majority, doesn't matter if someone has to go anywhere, you'll be able to do without someone who might come out.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20458	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. I sincerely hope that you will share my opinion that, just under Article 105(1) of the Order at the session of the National Assembly, the old president of the National Assembly. That is why, according to the members of the Rules of Procedure, I have been neatly since this morning, from the moment it came to position 5, which speaks of the necessity of the quorum for voting, from that moment on, I have been setting breaks and coming down and informing the MPs that there are still no conditions for the session to continue in this way. It's my responsibility and I don't find it hard. I hope you're satisfied with this clarification. You're not. In that case, since Mrs Radeta says she is not satisfied with the explanation, under Article 100(4), the Assembly will declare that in the voting day, without a search, as we know. Thank you for mutually understanding that we're working on the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to an emergency review proposal. The government proposed that the draft Veterinary Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2005 (point 1 of the proposed agenda, be put on the agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. Two out of 126 MPs were not voting for 124. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this motion for an emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratory, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 6 October 2005 (point 2 of the proposed agenda) be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, of the 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. In a letter dated 6 October 2005, the government proposed that the draft Law amending the Transport Act in Road Transport be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2005 (point 3 of the proposed agenda). I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 126, of the 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Živodarka Dacin, Leila Ruzdić-Trifunović, Snezana Stojanović-Plasic, Miroslav Nedeljković and Milan Dimitrijevic suggested that, in an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the Education of the Survey to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 October 2005, which is the fourth point of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, he did not vote one of the 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic, president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs nine plus nine, suggested that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 September 2005, which is the 5th point of the proposed agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 125, he did not vote one of the 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the Proposal for a Veterinary Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys, which are items 1 and 2 of the agenda. Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. 126 out of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. 126 out of 126 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a Veterinary Act; 2. Proposal for a law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys (retired after the principle debate); 3. Proposal for a law amending the Transport Act in road transport; 4. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the Education of the Survey to determine the truth about newborn children missing from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia; 5. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I thank all the MPs for having the patience to clarify. Before that, two notices. Members of the Traffic and Connections Committee, I would like to inform you that the Committee's session is at 1400 hours in the O.R. room on the V floor. Also, a session of the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be held in a small hall after the agenda of the National Assembly. Please start patiently on the agenda, and the break will be at 1400 hours. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principle search on the Proposal for a Veterinary Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys, and before the opening of a common principle search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Just to finish the previous speaker and then have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. We have to respect every member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the total time of debate in the joint principled search for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is the following: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 44 minutes 24 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes 24 seconds, New Serbia and independent MPs 9 plus 9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPP MPs, SDP deputies and two independent MPs, per five minutes, on the basis of Article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. At the same time, I am informing you of authorised representatives in front of parliamentary groups: for the SRS parliamentary group MP Dr Zoran Masic, G17 plus MP Vladislav Kronic and in front of the SPS Brance Stojanovic. We move to a joint principled search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – PROPOSALS OF THE VETERINARY AND VETERINARY AGENCY, FYTOSANITARY AND SANITARY LABORATORS A National MP, Nemanja Sarović, appeared on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20459	Mr. Markovic, you should have given me your word right after I asked for it, because this provision - immediately after the previous speaker's presentation is finished, does not apply to you, but to whoever is behind this speaker. But now I would like to, since Article 225 says that the MP has the right to be informed of all the questions needed to perform the duties of the MP, and after you have established the agenda and brought together the debate to be as brief as possible, the real stampede has prevailed on this door, so if you have such information to share with everyone, that there may not have been a flood in the building of the National Assembly, that it is not a fire, what is going on?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20460	I don't have that kind of information. MPs can be safe. Since we opened a joint principle search, I ask if the representative of the proposing Dr. Ivana Dulic-Markovic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, wants a word? Here you go, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20461	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as you know, we have recently had a review of the laws on veterinary and veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories and laws, under circumstances, not voted in the Assembly. That is why the government re-established the proposal of the two laws and they are identical to the previous ones, and they have all accepted amendments from all parliamentary groups. The Veterinary Act in a completely new way and with a new approach regulates important animal health issues, protecting people from infectious diseases that can be transmitted from animals and improving the production of products of animal origin and the production of safe food of animal origin. The component of this law is a list of infectious animal diseases, based on the recommendations of the OIE, according to which animal infectious diseases will be monitored and the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases, which is of great importance, especially in international transport. A new veterinary organisation law shall be established if they meet the veterinary-sanitary conditions prescribed by the law regarding professional staff, facilities, equipment and no longer operate as public services. This means that the new law will assign veterinary protection jobs to veterinary services based on the quality of work, services provided and results achieved, as public stations are privatised and it is possible to organise public services in areas where there is no private interest in the establishment of the service of the state. The adoption of this law would create a whole system of much more efficient controls and controls throughout the food chain of animal origin, and this is very important to us to get to markets that have more consumers than it is currently in Serbia. The law clearly defines the welfare of animals. It obliges holders and animal owners to carry out measures to improve animal health and well-being. The new law introduces even greater control of imports, as imports are only possible from fully controlled facilities. The law prescribes the obligation to mark and record animals, which will improve the control of animals in transport and prevent illegal trade. This is important in the control of infectious diseases and the prevention of the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases. In a manner prescribed by law, it will allow monitoring throughout the production process and setting the concept "from field to table". The new law establishes a veterinary chamber, which grants licences to veterinarians and withdraws licences for the work of unconscious and unprofessional veterinarians. The law regulates and empowers employees at veterinary stations to carry out certain veterinary inspection professional tasks, which reduces the state administration. The law will also establish a new public service of calliphyrium, i.e. A new chain of facilities for the collection, processing and destruction of animal waste will be established. So this is a law that has been approved long with the profession and we believe that all MPs in the Assembly will vote for it. In order for the veterinary law to be adequately applied, as well as to improve the work and other services, the Government has proposed a law on the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories. This law empowers the government to establish an agency, in accordance with the Public Agency Act. The Agency, in accordance with the law and the founding act, will manage and coordinate a network of laboratories carrying out laboratory tasks relating to: veterinary-sanitary control, phytosanitary control, sanitary control and other forms of food control; animal veterinary control and phytosanitary control of plants not used in food, as well as sanitary control of drinking water, and control of the regularity and composition of biologically active materials used for agricultural production. This agency will establish an institutional structure for laboratories to carry out the analysis, which will help implement a series of existing and future food safety regulations. The State must be a guarantee of control of the correctness of agricultural and food products. We think this is a good way to build a mechanism so the state can establish its role. Therefore, the purpose of the Agency is to introduce order, to reduce abuse and corruption, to manage the relationship between inspections and laboratories and for sampling, to receive samples, to monitor samples, to monitor the conduct of testing, to carry out analysis and to issue results. It will also be possible in this way to separate the advisory service from the control functions of the state in various institutions. Of course, it will leave space for many institutes and universities to deal with their basic work, which is scientific work or education. These are two good laws that will help agricultural products get to the market faster and make our consumers confident of the safety and regularity of the food they buy. I urge you to vote for these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20462	Thank you, Mrs. Dulic-Markovic. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a joint principled search for a written word, with a number of MPs, submitted two parliamentary groups -- the Serbian Radical Party and the G17 Plus parliamentary group. So, two parliamentary groups, the Serbian Radical Party and G17 plus reported speakers. So, the first word will be made by Mr Dragoslav Milkovic, then MP Dragan Rafaelovic, and now has the word from the authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group Mr Masic, and then by the authorised representative of the SPS Group Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20463	Dear Madam Ministers, Mr. Director of Veterinary Administration, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say something as an authorised representative of the Serbian Radical Party about these two laws that we are discussing today. In the previous debate, I spoke extensively and gave the good news, above all, of the veterinary law, and of some of the failures made in that law, and with disapproval, I made arguments why the law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys should not be adopted. The suggestion was to withdraw from the procedure. However, unfortunately, we had a situation, I must say my regrets, first of all as a veterinarian, according to colleagues who have been waiting almost 14 years for the new law to be passed, that this veterinary law has not been passed. The ruling majority, thanks to the media above all, highly skilledly masked the fact that one significant, one capital law was not passed in the national parliament, but even on state television it was said this evening – came out of the assembly hall of Serbian Radical Party MPs and the Democratic Party, and for these reasons the law was not passed, and not what was true, which is that the law was not voted by representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, i.e. for both laws, then representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia, and that MPs of the Democratic Party were abstentions, so they did not vote. The government has also hurried to return to the procedure of the law, not wanting it rightly to amend it in accordance with the observations given during the principled debate and discussions in particular, with an explanation that the procedure would continue for perhaps another month, to regain the full consent of the relevant ministries, and then to go back into the procedure. Simply after two weeks, these laws have been returned, with certain amendments to the veterinary law through certain amendments. These were small repairs by some members, where amendments by Serbian Radical Party MPs and other parties were accepted. Essentially, the veterinary law has only changed somewhat, and what was a fundamental remark here in this House, and what was primarily a requirement of the veterinary profession, it was not done in this bill either. The only truth is, I must say from this point on that two amendments have been proposed by the ruling majority MPs, and above all the MPs from the group from where the G17 MPs came from, that what has been proposed as amendments by the SRS MPs and that we wanted to change in this bill and improve. So this bill, which we are going to discuss today and most likely tomorrow, will essentially be amended by amendments to G17, and unfortunately it is not accepted to be from the SRS parliamentary group, regardless of my smallness, which has some reputation and authority in the veterinary profession, without any false modesty. It's politics and it's something that's somewhat normal in parliament. Describing the bill here, the Minister said that a set of circumstances affected the non-acceptance or non-voting of these two laws. I would not agree that it was a set of circumstances; it was precisely the political position of the parties who voted at that time. Most likely, in the meantime, the political stance of the party supporting the ruling majority in this parliament and the government has changed and conditions have been met for the bill to be passed. However, I must say that it is somewhat, not to say, perhaps most wrongly, the Ministry, and with all due respect to Madam Minister, I think it is a good part of the fault that, in that first vote, this law is not voted on, because it did not, firstly, want to show more understanding of the amendments submitted. The SRS parliamentary group had a serious intention to support the whole of the law, and I also suggested it on the Committee on Agriculture and here at the pay phone, that our amendments were supported, but there was no understanding of it. On the other hand, I think that the policy run by the Ministry of Agriculture in the area of agriculture is not good and that it is too much in the clouds of the people of the Ministry, and therefore the minister, in relation to the assessment given by the European Economic Community for the reforms made in the area of agriculture. I don't really see them, because, first of all, it's a little bit of a law. Something that has been done has not been made public. I want to ask from this place – what about the agricultural development strategy? The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted two months or more ago, none of this strategy here from the MPs, first to come from the members of the Committee on Agriculture, has neither seen nor received. You can say it's on the Ministry site, so you can read it there. I agree, most likely there is, although I haven't opened a site for the Ministry of Agriculture recently, but there are a number of Members who simply won't be informed by this means, especially our citizens who are and how interested, and above all agricultural producers, for the agriculture strategy adopted by this country. You didn't present that document anywhere. I think that's something that should have been done. The Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Budgets identified significant funds to encourage agriculture in this and last year and in the form of loans were allocated to farmers. To this day, you did not want to provide the members of the Committee on Agriculture with information on who had received all these credit funds and whether they had been used on purpose, and you were required to, according to the government's regulation. You're doing something that's untransparent, something that can't be the interest of citizens, and it can't be the right policy or the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it's the means of all citizens and it's the obligation of the Ministry of Agriculture to make information, especially because the Committee on Agriculture has on two occasions asked for that information, and the Ministry has been deafened by relying on the Law on banking business, that for these reasons it can't be given an insight into who everything is and in what amount and for which purposes it has received the funds, and the regulation has otherwise regulated it. Therefore, gentlemen of the Ministry, Madam Minister, you must understand that perhaps the good part of such a policy of the Ministry was the reason for not passing this law at the last debate. I hope that in the next period... To absorb the relationship, recently, of the Ministry of Agriculture to the Committee on Agriculture, where no Madam Minister was present at the last debate. During the final discussion of the Committee, where the damage caused by the floods was debated, the chief of inspection came, a man who seemed to have fallen from the sky. He voted there, whatever members of the Committee voted for, he raises his hand and votes, votes as if he were a member of the Committee. If you're sending people to the Agriculture Committee when we're discussing concrete matters, then send competent people, because we're trying to be competent for what we're discussing or at least calling competent people. I want to take a critical look first of all at the facts that have contributed well to such an important law - the veterinary law, which has been being prepared for so long and which is of significant interest to the veterinary profession, has not passed. I'm not as a veterinarian happy to have to discuss this law again, because he's certainly one of the most significant laws for veterinarians, for a promotion... (The Chairman, Gordana Pop-Lazic: Mr. Mašicu, do you use another ten minutes? Yes, of course. In order to improve animal health protection, but it is also important to improve the development of livestock and especially our appearance on the world market, and especially since we have one significant situation of certain infectious diseases of animals that occur massively and contagious diseases that are transmitted from animals to humans, so that we also care about how important this law is. That's why in this debate as a parliamentary group, we're going to try to take a critical look at what isn't rightly regulated by these laws. As far as the political stance on agencies is concerned, our political stance as a political party is unchanged, although the amendments that were split before the start of the debate we show good will, and we are starting from the fact that what we are proposing basically to delete members and not adopt this law; we have also made a proposal for three amendments to correct that law. I'm afraid it won't be accepted either, but you, as the ruling majority and the proposings, are right. What I want to particularly apostrophe, about the veterinary law, which is not properly regulated, first of all, in the veterinary chamber. The veterinary chamber is a body established to protect and improve professional ethics, protect professional interests of veterinarians and membership in the chamber is mandatory for all veterinarians. However, the Crucial Controller of the Veterinary Chamber is the Ministry of Agriculture. So, from the statute of that chamber to approve, in a way, the consent of the Ministry to certain other things prescribed above all by a member who regulates the activity and affairs of the chamber. Among other things, those are the prices of veterinary services. Advocacy of the veterinary profession was that the chamber formed the lowest prices for veterinary services, as they cannot objectively be identical throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In particular, the requirement of the profession was that the veterinary chamber be a partner to the Ministry of Agriculture in determining the prices of veterinary services from the animal health care programme, what the state financed from the budget. In this regard, a single amendment was proposed; it was proposed and last time in a somewhat altered form from DS colleagues, but this time we proposed to the Serbian Radical Party that amendment, but the proposer did not accept the resolution on the Committee yesterday, so that the chamber remains to determine the price of services as the lowest prices and in fact that the chamber has no share in determining the price of the work of veterinarians under the programme of measures, both veterinarians and veterinarians in specialist or scientific veterinary institutions. The next thing I want to point out is, in my opinion, the insufficient involvement of the Veterinary Authority in these past months and a half, when it comes to the media of a dangerous infectious disease, it's animal influenza. Somehow, the primate in informing citizens about the dangers of this disease has taken over the health care and maltene every day, or someone from the Ministry appears to explain to the citizens who are at risk of this disease, and the Minister of Agriculture and Mr Krnjajic, as director of the Administration, in my opinion, in my information, according to how I monitor, is not sufficiently pointing out the problem from the veterinary aspect. It is primarily an animal disease that makes animals sick in significant numbers and unfortunately dies. It is true that this virus can mutate, mutate in some countries, and that people are sick, but it has not yet been established whether it is transmitted from humans to the human population, but has so far been found to be directly transmitted from animal to human. The adoption of laws and the establishment of this veterinary advice should address the assessment of the risk of introduction, occurrence and spread of infectious diseases and the assessment of possible adverse effects on animal and human health. It is precisely the veterinary profession that needs to gain greater reputation and popularity, to hear more in the media among the people, and that what belongs to us as professions we and more affirm. In recent days, we have a TV commercial from the Ministry on the introduction of the HasAP system. The truth is, this law introduces an obligation to introduce the control of critical points in the process of production, first of all, in objects where animals are slaughtered, and that's good, that's something that's necessary for us. However, I think that advertising or advertising in this way is not suitable for the present time, and especially for the time being said to introduce this system. I'm responsible for telling you that nowhere in any slaughterhouse can the HasAP system be introduced in three months. On the other hand, a promise has been made to the citizens or better told to those who have these facilities that the ministry will help with 80%, that it will cover the costs, which I also think is wrong, from the agricultural budget. Because it's something that someone, if they want to produce more quality or want to be competitive on the market, should primarily introduce it by means of their own resources, mostly by means of their own resources. For example, to help one Mr. Matijević in Novi Sad, who has a meat industry with 80% of the HaSAP system, I think he's out of his mind, with all the apologies, or some other slaughterhouses. The money that separates for such a thing needs to be directed to the other side, so my suggestion is exactly that. Furthermore, I think the Ministry should explain what awaits citizens who are involved in the production of food of animal origin, so to speak, or, now, it is regulated, animal products – it is that one who brings out on the market of slaughtered chickens or other livestock can no longer slaughter at home and carry it to the market, but only that animal can be slaughtered in registered animal slaughter slaughterhouses or possibly rabbits. It's something to prepare the citizens for, to pass this law which is something like that, and in that sense, they're being reconstructed. Furthermore, it is a good idea to establish public institutions that will be involved in the collection, processing and destruction of corpses, but in relation to the funds in the agrarian budget, in relation to the state of these entities, is it also realistic to put them into office? If that's what you're passing by law, then I expect more significant funds to be allocated to this kind of thing when the new budget is adopted. Especially because of the occurrence of infectious diseases of mass character, where a large number of animals will have to be killed, we have to have objects where such animals will be safely removed. I say hello, I just wonder if we have the money to revitalize it and prepare it further. Since time is running out, I will respect that fact; I will speak in principle of what I did not say, and this is about the law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Sanitary Laboratorys. And I didn't touch the licenses, because we've got a lot of problems. I spoke last time – we import animals that are infected with dangerous infectious diseases, which are not allowed to be imported under our law, but I will be more specific when I speak in principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20464	Thank you, Mr. Machine. In the afternoon, Mr Stojanovic is the first, and now I'm taking a break until 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20465	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our afternoon session. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group Brance Stojanovic, and then, if an authorised representative or president of the parliamentary group does not apply, we will go after the registered speakers, and the first word will be Dragoslav Milkovic, and then MP Dragan Rafaelovic, then MP Paja Momcilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20466	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Minister, Mr. Krnjajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before you again, as we have heard, as we know, the Veterinary Act. As he's long prepared and lucky to be second in the congregation procedure, I think he's in some way talking about the importance of the law. It is one of the key laws in the EU accession process. It belongs to a group of laws in the area of agriculture, where about 35% of total adaptation must follow the legislation. I must say, at first, that the disagreements and certain doubts that existed in the SPS parliamentary group at the meeting with the people in charge of this area from the Ministry of Agriculture and with the Minister of Agriculture, as I say, have been brought into line and respecting the importance of this law and the regulation that this law treats, the SPS parliamentary group will support and vote in favour of the veterinary law. It's similar with the agency law. I think a number of amendments submitted by the SRS are important, and above all those relating to accreditation, and of course we will say our position when we discuss the amendments. This law is very important, I think we're all going to agree on that, and among other things, it defines and determines the further development of livestock. We know how important this is for our country's agriculture, because livestock is a higher stage of processing of war production. If we think we're developing agricultural production, if there's a known fact that 42% of our country's gross income is achieved in agriculture, that speaks of the importance of this law. The law treats several areas and, above all, the reorganisation of veterinary services. Then, I think it's very important that we establish a veterinary chamber. She, of course, has existed until now, but her role was not excessive and significant in that regard. A veterinarian can get, or lose a license, which I think is very important. What is important, and I think that Mr Masic said that in his opening remarks, it is that a number of amendments, and above all the amendments of the SRS MPs for whom we MPs from the SPS have received support, have been incorporated. I think it's a good gesture and a good move from the Ministry people. Therefore, the law is important, and we understand its significance and this is also the decision to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20467	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the G17 plus parliamentary group, Mr. Kronic Vladislav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20468	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, this is one really important law and I want to say at the outset that the G17 Plus Group will vote for this law this time, first of all, because this is a very important law that has a major impact on our overall agriculture. We know that Serbia is a agricultural country, so livestock is a very important branch of agriculture. But this law... The veterinary profession cares not only about animals, animal health, animal welfare, but also about the welfare of people; today we have heard opinions, concerns about animal diseases being transmitted to humans. That's all it takes to support this law. This is a new, technical law, not a law that we should be fighting political battles about, but of course, this is Parliament and this is a place to face our opinions. However, this is a law that allows our agriculture to go to foreign markets and that our livestock products are on them and placed on them, and is in line with all the relevant laws, or EU directives. As for newspapers in this law, only briefly: what matters is that it respects all EU standards, introduces a new term, which is to take care of animal welfare. It also provides for a serious reorganisation of the veterinary service and the veterinary service will, of course, be public and private. Of course, what the profession has been looking for in the past is in this law, it is a mandatory member of veterinarians in the veterinary chamber. The newspaper is what the profession stood for during the preparation of this law, which is the introduction of a licence for veterinarians. It is also very important to establish a scientific advice for veterinary purposes that deals with professional issues in the veterinary field. Of course, three important planning documents are provided: a long-term strategy on health care, a health care measure programme and a specific programme of animal health measures. Of course, the news is that the actions of the programme are subject to public competition, so competition among veterinary entities is opening up. The register of objects in which it is possible to breed and export animals shall be introduced. Also, the paper is the introduction of a programme of risk analysis and control of critical points in production. What is very important is the introduction of the HasAP program, and this becomes the obligation of legal entities and entrepreneurs to control critical points in production and to have a suitable professional face. It also enables the introduction of a programme for the monitoring of chemical substance residuals in the chain of production. Of course, it's a newspaper and a mandatory marking of animals. One of the newspapers is the government's obligation to organise a public service for the collection and processing of animal corpses. Also, one of the newspapers is an analysis of the risk that determines the purpose of the product, the characteristics of the exporting country that affect the occurrence and spread of the disease. These few facts suggest that this law should be supported, regardless of our political views. Once again, the G17 plus will support the adoption of this law, as well as the law on the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20469	Thank you, Mr. Kronic. Do any of the other authorised presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) We continue to work on the reports of speakers, with a series of MPs, who have been submitted by MPs. The first word has a National MP Dragoslav Milkovic, then a National MP Dragan Rafaelovic, and a National MP Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20470	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just because a draft veterinary law comes to parliament again within 15 days, that means that the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry was unable to make a good law. Twice the board sat down and there was a pull-up. Then they were able to convince the SPS and likely to be voted. They initially accepted some amendments to the Serbian Radical Party, in the first version. However, no amendments to the Serbian Radical Party were accepted in this second version. However, it is this: the Serbian Radical Party has proposed amendments to Articles 96 and 124 to those members when the law is not passed in the first version. What happened? The G17 plus has mutated these amendments, or modified them, and now our proposal, but in their version, yesterday, the Government and the Committee on Agriculture, will now be voted upon, as far as it can be seen and felt. We opened a debate on the board yesterday. There are some gaps. I was talking about veterinary hospitals, especially in underdeveloped areas, where there will be no privatisation. The country needs to lie down to help these poor, especially border municipalities, which will be the front door for spreading the disease. In particular, the Pcinian County, the Municipality of Trgovište. I live there. Two hundred meters is my old father's house from the Macedonian border. The Macedonian border is guarded by their border police. There's no army on the Serbian side, there's no police. That's where the goods are smuggled, there's live cattle going in and out, depending on where it's more expensive. Nor were our organs when they set up the borderstone. They were just setting limits. I'm saying this because there's a minister present who's a representative of the government. No one cares, and the people are on their own. What I'm saying is that we need a veterinary law, because the wind is one of the main segments of livestock production. Today, livestock farming in Serbia has failed. Everything's stopped. It's all gone. We are preparing to join the EU. However, it will only be in 2020, and we have to rebuild the Serb village, everything has failed. You, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, are from the party G17 plus. It is a small, miniature party, and it leads key portfolios: Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, National Bank and beyond. You have the directors. At the Nis Veterinary Center, he's your director. There was an affair, people were strikers. You're a force to replace working and honest people, and you're setting up your own. It's out of place. It won't be for long, the next election will show who and how it should work. You have not accepted our amendments, and you have accepted the amendments to the G17 Plus, which are, in fact, our amendments, just a little mutated. You do not accept the amendments of the Serbian Radical Party purely out of spite. We are the strongest political party, we will prove in the next election. Furthermore, today we are witnessing our national downfall. I must speak to a member of the government, Madam Minister, since other ministers never come. National disaster, economic disaster, robbery privatisation. The whole Serbian people are falling apart. In fact, 90% of the people in Serbia are starving. The five-eyed revolutionaries are getting richer and richer. No one cares about Kosovo's status. The government is not advertising, and Kosovo and Metohija are to be tackled. 150 churches and monasteries were burned there, and the government is not engaged in it. It should take one position, bring it to parliament and make a decision. We need to start negotiations, and no one's gonna talk about it. Republika Srpska's sinking. "Ajdya" Paddy Ashdown swallows everything. That Serb entity is shutting down. The government doesn't say a word about it. The south of Serbia is failing. No one is investing, and no one from the ministers is coming. Mr. Prime Minister Kostunica has come to drop a water factory in Vranje and a mattress factory in Bujanovac, and this water factory has been built for 11 years. Nobody's interested in anything. The ministries holding the G17 plus are filled with everyday affairs. Military Minister - affair vests, helmets; Ericsson affair, any affair, Serbia has become a country of various affairs today. You even invented Bosnian. I ask you, where do the experts go to teach that language? Does anyone have a degree in Bosnian language? You are about to join the EU, and our country is in a catastrophic position. I agree that the law needs to be passed. I would like this ministry soon to pass a law on the resuscitation of the Serb village, for the rebirth of the Serbian village, to pass a law that young people remain to live there, to work, not to emigrate and leave the country. Serbia is narrowing down. We will be a national minority in our own country in 2020. It's unremembered. The oldest people in the world will disappear if this continues. You are passing laws that will benefit this country, that the people live better, not that you prescribe these laws, which are inadmissible in Serbia, according to the EU's order. Serbia is not the Netherlands, not England, not Denmark, not America. Serbia is Serbia. Specific environment, specific climate. Therefore, you either do what needs to be done or call a new election, so the Serbian Radical Party will come, which will lead the Serbian Patriotic core and you will see how it will be ruled. Serbia will be a country without corruption, without robbery, without crime, without affairs. We will prove that in the next extraordinary parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20471	The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20472	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we heard at the end of the predecessor's presentation has already been seen. So God didn't let us watch again. I don't want to talk about the law, but I literally don't want to talk about any sentence, because this law is all said by the profession. The public debate lasted long and therefore, all college professors and my colleague, the esteemed president of the Committee, well knows what the profession said about what the veterinarians said, what the European Union said. In addition, we had a debate a few days ago, which worked it out in detail and even the opposition's MPs praised the veterinary law. I'll talk about something else, something that shocked me, and that's the vote. So those who praised the law didn't vote for it. I took part in several sessions of the Committee on Agriculture where experts in veterinary and higher education in the veterinary field were the most invaluable. Everyone said the best about the law. The vets say they've been waiting 15 years for this law. I was starting to wonder what it was. The answer was self-inflicted, not to be asked much, but only that inquiry confirmed what I suspected. In this story there is a part of the people who have an interest in the law being passed. These are all those who are involved in production, not only in livestock, where the veterinary law is competent, but also in plant production where the other law will be jurisdiction, so the law on the laboratory agency, for the simple reason that it will control the fruit material and everything else used in the production. Special interest are people who deal with exports, people who produce for export, and that's how young people stay in the country, to export, to pass this law, and that these people can stay because they will have good prices and better living conditions in the country than to work as porters and drivers in the city. I agree that on that point, we unite and pass laws like this. Who doesn't fit a law like this? Public veterinary stations. That's where people work at the state firm, they get government salary, and almost all the vets, honor the exceptions, because there are honest people, they work for themselves in private and for their own pocket. So, they take state wages and take a commission to buy drugs and equipment and a lot of other things. We saw this on the ground in local self-government when there was a marking and when various other jobs were done, insemination etc. The second part is the worst – the laboratory agency will prevent uncontrolled imports of food products that do not satisfy the quality. Who doesn't answer that? To various speculators, smugglers or legal importers of these products from abroad that do not correspond to the introduction of quality and, of course, to tycoons who deal in large quantities. I sincerely believe that there is no MP here, let alone God, a group of MPs who will vote against this law, who will go to the water of such people who are destroying Serbia, especially when we have to bear in mind that after the accession agreement we will have ever closer relations and more liberal flows of goods and imports and exports with the European Union and with other countries. Who will then ban the import of certain goods, but quality laboratories that only by quality examination will be able to stop what is wrong. I will just remind myself that recently, two years ago, just by act of the Minister of Agriculture, when ships with pigmeat at the port of Bar were stopped and were not given an import licence to Serbia, then stabilised the price of pigmeat; it remains at the level of the euro and a half and two. Also, remember well how the rebellion was and how the tycoons paid the media in Serbia to muddle the finance minister, the people who run the customs and the Serbian Parliament because control was introduced and imports of Brazilian and Argentinean meat prevented. So this law has nothing to do with politics, with The Hague, with Kosovo, with the problem of minorities in some of our parts. This law is purely economic, of national importance, very important for the accession treaty. The negotiating team has a difficult task to defend our agricultural products, i.e. to keep protection against our agricultural production. How's he gonna do that? By saying that we are passing the laws needed to regulate that area, etc. It's going to be an extenuating circumstance. So I hope no one will show that it protects the tycoons and the diverse lives that destroy our agricultural production by voting against this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20473	The People's Messenger, Paja Momcilov, has the word, and then the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, and the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20474	Dear People's MPs, here we have the laws again within a short period of time, the correction exam is under way. Mrs. Minister said - given the circumstances. We don't understand what that means. I'd very much like to know what it's like to have circumstances, what the nature of the situation is, whether it's a bad legal solution or something else. We'll probably hear it in this debate, I hope until the end of this debate. In a brief explanation of Ms. Minister, we heard repeated attitudes, what we had already heard before, that this is a new law that makes new solutions and which is why it should be adopted. We in the Serbian Radical Party do not dispute the need to pass such a law, a modern veterinary law, but last time we expressed our disagreement with this way of bringing newspapers into our real practice. In fact, what did we object to in a public debate over both laws? First, I will repeat that I am speaking as a doctor, this law has taken too much freedom and started to take on in an inappropriate way the powers of another sector, from the health sector, and that is what our basic grudge is when we talk about this law. If you take an explanation as given, it is well said: reasons for bringing – protecting people from infectious diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans, as well as the importance of control in animal production and transport, animal products, food for animals and food of animal origin, which should satisfy a health and qualitative aspect that will ensure consumer safety. Please, it's a couple of medical excellency assignments. I'm not saying that a veteran can't make a significant contribution, but it derogates an entire important sector and it's illegal. You've got nothing else to explain, but people's health. How can you and how can you take that responsibility without sanitary protection and without health care? Who gives you the right and I wonder how the government has agreed to give this into the hands of the veterinary service, an unusually important and significant link in providing safe food. You don't have enough of that, you use your lies. You say, "The Animal Protection Act against infectious diseases that threaten the entire country regulates animal health against infectious diseases, then protects people from infectious diseases... ". You are not regulated by this law, because it explicitly states in Article 1 – protection against infectious diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. Big difference. If you don't have enough opportunity to understand this difference then give it to someone who's worth writing, give it to good lawyers who understand the meaning of terms and words they use. You took what didn't belong to you or what you couldn't. Why can't he? The doctor and the health care department can't deal with zoonotics if they show up. The health care and sanitary part of this service has its own disciplines and has a hundred-year tradition in the protection of this people as well as in zoonotics. What do we got? We have epidemiology, we have hygiene, we have social medicine, we have nutritionists within hygiene. You can't erase it with a rubber and provide something of quality; don't be angry, you who have graduated from the agricultural college and veterinarians. Do not interfere with what you do not know, but this law demonstrates it. So, the profession will deal with the prevention of zoonoses, the profession has done so far, a system of reporting zoonoses to the World Health Organization, where these diseases are reported, in addition to an international organisation that has a three-letter French name, which you also reported to be that outbreak of paws and foot-and-mouth disease, which, I think, you didn't even check out. The question for you here is, have you checked out the foot and foot epidemic that you owe us so our cattle could be exported abroad? If you haven't checked out that famous 2001 foot and foot epidemic, why didn't you do it? Is it 20,000 euros you had to lay down for a reason or something? Until it is done, we cannot export our cattle to the European Union, as far as I know the European Union's regulations. You're always in favor of those regulations. That it is clear that your goal is to bring down one system of sanitary protection and control talks and the first member of this law. I won't read it, but we'll comment on it in detail. I will tell you how it should be written so that both veterinarians are satisfied and that the sanitary health care department finds its right place and that Europe is satisfied. Don't just say this is what Europe was looking for. Here, in the documents, I have a letter from the Karl Bro agency that was doing this project to you, where their representative Jan Robertson says that political solutions are the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection and veterinary inspection, and in no way Europe, and we are not going to fall into the trap that we impose these solutions. This is what you came up with, without Europe, because these are not European solutions, this is your shame and shame. Don't hide behind Europe. The letter is here, everyone is available. What I want to add is, with this law, you say, there's a newspaper. Please, don't consider the chamber a criminal expedition and an extended hand of the Ministry, which will discipline the veterinarians. It can only be a professional organization that takes care of interests and protects veterinarians, as well as when it comes to the medical chamber. Come to that awareness that one of the important interests of this profession is to work and to work on the modern principles of science and profession and that one who does not by these pretentious notions of behavior should be sanctioned in a certain way, but do not give it to the chamber. It's not her essential role. What you need to control and do as management imposes other people and throws "hot potatoes" into your hands, so when it doesn't work out right, you'll say -- well, you have a chamber, the chamber doesn't do it, it's not our job. You're saying funny things. When you talk about animals (they should be very close to you), in article 46, you talk about human killing and slaughter. Where's the human killing and the slaughter? Do you realize that's not working? You have a termology – contumation, distance, even a rough word used in that terminology. How does it occur to you to use such raving termological solutions in this law when you say you've been working on it for a long time? But let me leave this law and this paper. What's the paper? If we're to be honest, let's just say, the paper is to control the presence of residues of harmful materials and contaminants that can be dangerous to human health. This is already being carried out through health institutions and it is within the scope of inspection supervision and is directly within the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection. It's your newspaper - to seize what's already been given by law to sanitary protection. What does that look like? Did they give you their consent? I have a rich correspondence between the Ministry of Health, between the profession and Mr. Labus. You have a letter from Mr. Minister Labus saying, on 27 January 2005, here's the letter signed, the minister insists that this is not how you handle things as you have foreseen these laws, to remain the control of the sanitary and the border, especially when it comes to the transport of groceries. Who gave you permission if there is such a request from the Ministry of Health? How come you have an open door to deafen yourself to this requirement of the profession? I'm not going to show a dozen other papers where it's clear that the health profession defines what anyone should do, that there's no collisions and everyone's satisfied. What is the problem, we also have the Law on Infectious Diseases, which we adopted in this House almost a year ago. You have also taken jurisdiction from that law, which belongs to the sanitary service precisely by inserting people, with one sentence that seems to disturb things a little bit, but essentially changes the situation, which I find unauthorized. But to break this law, we'll talk about it in amendments as well. But absolutely not allowed to do what this law wants to do. I'm not talking about other parts that are certainly needed and where there are probably good solutions. But as a doctor, I can't not say this. You have to answer why it is so, whether sanitary protection in this country, which has a hundred-year tradition, is no good, so you veterinarians, agricultural engineers, are going to save people's health, so take matters into your own hands, or it's a coincidence that Mrs. McKay is sitting there, so it's all possible. This ministry has already given up a whole series of responsibilities of sanitary protection, not to mention noise, radioactive radiation, which is the subject of sanitary protection and health protection in most of the normal developed countries of the world. Answer those questions, please. In short, I would refer to this other law. This other law is even worse. I said there's no smaller law or worse, that I saw him in parliament, and there's no more execution. If you see what the law's intensity is, and I talked last time, and I know it's wrong to repeat it, but I have to repeat it, it's said -- the first economic reason, the primary goals are economic. Where are your men? Aren't people the most important, citizens who have chosen us, you who are in executive power because of the people you are there to bring the solutions you are making, not because of abstract economic goals. So, you put this as a second -- consumer protection through controls that provide safety and high quality food. Again I ask as a doctor – where is the health profession? How come the right to you who have done it so far, in the way you've done it, hidducks, is now taking it completely into your own hands and you're building an organization and a scheme of sanitary laboratories? You know it best. In secondary goals, you stated: ecologically; then politically, so it is said -- Serbia's preparation for membership, but now it is interesting, in the World Trade Organisation, and then in preparation for accession to the European Union. So, more importantly, the World Trade Organisation's goal is to break down the barriers to getting food into our country as easily as possible, and that doesn't hide Carl Bro, because it says in response to the Ministry of Health that one of the tasks of these reforms can't be the stricter principle of import food control compared to homework, and that's okay, nobody has anything against it. So that's more important to you, and you're always talking here -- Europe, Europe, you're giggling with European badges, but now the World Trade Organisation is suddenly more important by priorities, at least that's how you wrote this. You were told what motivated you. If you're watching what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing, as it does, then it's doing everything the other way around to achieve what it has said here that it wants to achieve. Someone before me had already spoken, here we have the Hast Convention and since 1 January 2006, Europe has applied the Convention. No one can import anyone who doesn't have a certificate under the HAST Convention. What happened? The health ministry in May adopts a regulation and says "not to be late", according to euphemistically, that May months compete for money and that our companies are certified so that their products can go to Europe. How long have you been in power? When did you first hear about the Hast Convention? When were you supposed to run that? It's not just you, and the previous government is a grudge. Why haven't you been five years, so since 2000 you've started a time-out action, but this is the way it's been. What did you do? You said 180 million for support. You say - 12 of our companies have a certificate and they can export, and you closed with September 27th and you said there's no more money, there's been a lot of reports, 300 companies have come forward, and we have money to send you to the fair in Hanover and two other fairs in the world, we'll pay you there. What's more important now? To go to Hanover or to get a certificate? That's the question now. It's on your site. Open the site today, you can laugh all you want, open today's site, you'll see it all well. Imports of infected apples, that old affair when you were running to the border to return that donation with apples, and then it came back to its very own misery, it never stops. You're having a shopping affair, what the villagers were given to sow last year from the raspberries plant and how they went, the Slovenians gave money, bought it. The latest affair with raspberries of 800kg, which was found to be infected. You had a problem closing up, you went with the police. Did you close at last, did you burn? That's where you debated with the importer who's modal, how to save the damage. That's what it says on your website from stuff to stuff. You can read it. I go to your site and read -- pesticide control in food. How's it going? Who respects the karenca? Where you have research that determines how many of our people on the green market Green Wreath has the right food within a certain period. You want me to tell you some other data from the others who worked, not you? What are the results? On your site, one person, an expert, says that 50% of the food we eat is contaminated with genetically modified food. That's what you let on your website to go for corn, for corn processing, for soybeans that are produced intensively here. This year you went out with an affair of genetically modified soybeans where you say - 370 acres in Machva and 50 in Surcin. What's with the soybean? You said you'd destroy it. Did you destroy it? Is there a solution? Show me the solution where you destroyed that soybean. Could it have been "Blood Product" sown? Is it possible that this gentleman from "Blood Product" is the main consumer of the soybeans, who feeds 5,000 popcorn and eggs that sells in Belgrade genetically modified soybean? A genetically modified soybean, the current minister stretched out in this country as the head of the Federal Institute for Genetic and Plant Resources, which was when Labus was vice-president of the federal government, and Vitosevic was (as first job) the agriculture minister. That chain goes on, I won't mention names. This is where genetically modified food is imported. Just one thing to say, since you took matters into your own hands, which you don't know, read this book by yourself from the Ministry. The edition is the Institute of Social Sciences in London, 150 pages on genetically modified food. There you will read whether there are harmful effects or not. So, the Institute of Social Sciences in London, read it. What will be very easy for you to read, read from Matica hrvatska book on genetically modified food and what it says, with evidence. If only this were known: the company "Monsanto" was in 2005... You know what Monsanto is, you often travel about their expenses in the U.S., it's a famous thing, they have papers, ma'am. Laugh. And I'd laugh if I had someone in my pocket a few thousand of that money, I'd be comfortable. You know how many times you've gone abroad. It's not bad to go. It's not a grudge, but it's the Monsanto story. The "Monsanto" firm was fined in America this year with $1.500,000 for corruption in Indonesia for bribing a state official who did not question food, did not question whether the flax or cotton has been genetically modified. It's a Monsanto firm. Today, when you go to our fields, go to Vojvodina, go here and get the Sword, you will see on the fields of the "Pionir" corn tablets. "Pionir" is a multinational company that also works most with genetically modified food. I'm asking you, is that genetically modified corn? The harmful effects of this corn are well known, and those who know something – with the study of the human genome, when it was found that the human genome has 30,000 genes in charge of protein synthesis (here, laughs sweet Mrs. Plasic, lunch has been fine, she drowned in nirvana), the complete theory of determining falls into the water. What does that mean? Let me just translate you into the language of the people. This means this: that from the outside environment, along with the genes that we have, and how the functioning of our organism, health and disease depends. Then when we talk about genetically modified food, that should be considered. I don't want to talk about the dangers when you plant genetically modified owls, 100 kilometers back, you won't have any other owls, they won't ruin anything else. I don't want to tell you about Argentina, read what's in Argentina today, what's gained by intensive soy production, where Argentina is today; read health newsletters, read agricultural bulletins. Therefore, Serbian radicals cannot stand behind such a bill. We appeal to the Ministry to benefit from the experiences of the Ministry of Health, I guess it's another government; in the end, you're the same party, share information, exchange opinions, and then I think you'll be able to pass quality laws that we can welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20475	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Milorad Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20476	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I even start talking about this subject, about this law, I must express a vigorous protest of the drastic disrespect of the National Assembly and of us Members of Parliament. Three cases I've seen here since this morning: the first, when the chairman made it so difficult and forcedly established the agenda and in violation of the Rules of Procedure; the second is the relationship between the minister whose law we are discussing today and the third is the government's attitude towards this assembly. As far as the government is concerned, it hasn't been 10 days since we discussed this same law, this same text, which was only with the changed date and the changed number that was taken up in the National Assembly, and also as a legal project that wasn't good, which was not good, we rejected. Only after 10 days has someone from the government, or the government in general, come to the conclusion that the MPs forgot that they discussed this 10 days ago and put the same text back on the agenda. Are you ladies and gentlemen Members of the People so foolish that these things can pass through to you? Maybe it's something else. The Socialist Party said vigorously that it would not vote for this law until Minister Dulic apologized for what she said the Socialists, or then the government, were carrying corpses instead of peaches in the freezers. Since the Serbian Radical Party was in power at the time, we do not accept an apology from this minister, even if she apologized to them. The second incredible attitude towards this home, according to the legislative authority, towards the National Assembly and you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is the minister's relationship. Here she comes today in shoes, though "puma", "adidas", I don't know what they are. Tomorrow he'll come to the tracksuit, the day after tomorrow, when we discuss the amendments, he can come in a short, bathing suit. It's a disrespect to you sitting here. As a MP, I do not allow anyone who asks me to vote on his legal project to act this way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's go now and discuss matter. In 2002, Your Honor... And if we were wearing a guy's shirt, we were wearing it as a protest. Because you arrested this innocent man and I'm glad we're wearing badges now and we'll be wearing it until he gets here, and I'm so sorry your leaders are so impersonal that neither the one from that show on Pinka, what was broadcast under the name "Never Excuse" could have guessed. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in 2002, means, two years after the "Dosmanian Bulldozer of Revolution", two years after the European option came, the European Union has allowed six slaughterhouses, six meat-processing industries from Serbia to be exported to the European Union and these are: "Carnex" from Vrbasa, "Neoplant" from Novi Sad, "Srem" Shid, "MIP" Pogorec, "Chaetina" from Chajetina, "Juhor" from Jagodina, "Mesni kombinat" from Leskovec and "Stokoimpes" from Knjižec. Given that we are mainly a agricultural country and that one of the key productions is cattle and meat production and that the very strict criteria of the European Union are all met, Europe has allowed Serbia to get on its feet a little bit, that agriculture in Serbia is on its feet a little bit, and that it is on its way. The then high-ranking official asks the European Union to delete, there were eight objects, I apologize, to delete six objects and leave only two. That, who is to discuss, should be discussed by the MUP, because this one has done incredible damage to Serbia. Let's say "Karnex", the famous name, can't export, "Juhor" the famous name, can't export either, so in European proportions, the famous name can't export anymore, it couldn't since 2000. So it wasn't after – don't, it was 2002, then the minister wasn't, she was in this encrypted political organization, and if it's political, it's now a sign, or question if it's encrypted, it's G17 plus, along with the team from G17 plus, and then they held this portfolio. Furthermore, what Mr. Paja Momchilov mentioned, I will remind the citizens of Serbia, Mr. Momchilov explained as a doctor how dangerous it is, how dangerous genetically modified organisms are, I mean soy, corn, and how they affect the development of all generations of us. To remind me, that same year, 2002, from Monsanto - something is familiar to me, I think it is well known to the ministers, and to those of you who do not know, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and to the citizens of Serbia, it is a company from America that deals with the production and sale of exclusively genetically modified organisms – in order to help poor and suffering Serbia, they first sent 50,000 tonnes of genetically modified soybeans in the form of gifts. In the negotiations that this soybeans come here... By the way, it was processed precisely in that company called "Crmivoproducer" and long ago Serbian citizens ate the meat of animals fed to that genetically modified strain. Imports are made by G17 plus, then Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Miroljub Labus, and direct participants are Sasa Vitosevic, then Minister Ivana Dulic, then director of an institute, is irrelevant, and Predrag Sladojevic. These three names, with another name, which I will come up with later, appear wherever genetically modified soybeans appear, or organisms, and even now they are reduced to the other three, Aleksandra Makaj, mentioned a gentleman before me, Ivana Dulic-Marković, every month, I repeat, going to Zagreb, and from Zagreb airport to America at the company "Monsanto" for commissions, I don't know what, by money. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, now a little bit about the law. Wherever we've put the amendment to this law, this time we've repeated all the same amendments, and once again, when the time comes for amendments, I have to shorten my presentation, because there are a lot of MPs from the Serbian Radical Party who want to talk, and then we'll talk about the amendments, because we have 15 minutes on each amendment, and we'll say everything that needs to be said, and it's about this law. The Serbian Radical Party will certainly not vote for such a law, as it means, in addition, the total destruction and destruction of Serbian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20477	The People's Messenger, Milorad Krstin, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20478	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within 20 days, we have a law that puts us in this high house to discuss it, which is the veterinary law. The last one that was brought here was brought in 1991, as you said, Dr. Krnjajic, and this is now after 14 years, so in 2005, European law. I understand the fact that this law should be a European law, but also a law that will serve to prevent various animal diseases in this Serbia. When an expert team did this kind of law, which is very important for a country, I think both the proponent and the minister had to take care of the amendments submitted by the Serbian Radical Party in particular. It is not clear to me that you do not accept the amendments submitted by such an expert as the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr Mašić, who was also the Director of the Veterinary Institute in Novi Sad, who is otherwise a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of Veterinary Medicine. It happened, however, to be accepted, but accepted by MPs from G17 Plus, from MP Dragan Petrovic. Here is the fact that this is indeed the case: Dr Mašić asked that a new animal transport within an epizootic unit be added to Article 96 after item 1. The amendment of his colleague Petrovic reads as follows – the point is replaced by a comma and is added "and the vehicles carrying out the transport of animals under the same epizootic units are not recorded". Dr. Masic's amendment was just the addition of his amendment, to resolve the issue of recording those means of transportation of cattle to the place of destination, or to the place of sale, to the slaughterhouse. Then, the following amendment, Dr Mašić said, Article 164a and you see the same story, MP Dragan Petrovic, the same addition to Article 164a, said in the amendment Dr Mašić: "Privatisation of public veterinary services and this: veterinary stations, animal reproduction centres", and listed all those veterinary specialist institutions, there is Pančevo, Veterinary station from Zrenjanin, Subotica and so on. The amendment of Dragan Petrovic to the same member, with the same sentences, is: "Privatisation of public veterinary services: veterinary cells and animal reproduction centres established by the Animal Health Protection Act... "and so on. So it was not important to adopt the amendment of one of the top experts in this area and the professors of agriculture college, but it was important to adopt, but in another form, in the form submitted by Dragan Petrovic, an MP from G17. Let's take a look at the story from the field. I believe you've made sure that this was done by top experts, but I have to say, since I'm coming from the Central Bank County, from the Zrenjanin municipality, one story is very interesting from the health station in Elemir, one place before my Taras. There's a veterinary station that counts four vets, and its name is "Spas". What's going on? This veterinary station is present in the populated town of 365-366 days, is present from 00 to 24.00 hours and as such, in one place that counts four to five thousand inhabitants and where there are about 1,400 large cattle, experiencing that the measure programme does not get it, but receives a public veterinary service. When blood is sampled from large livestock to brucellosis and leukosis and to do tuberculosis and marking, they come from the Zrenjanin Public Service and do so in two or three days, and the one who creates that cattle and from 1,400 for some year will be close to 2,000, the one who is present for all 365-366 days and from 00 to 24,00 hours has no right to receive and to work the measuring program. This same public service, and it is known who is doing this, has one terrible failure with the Vorgucin family; it is well known that the Veterinary Law says that animal blood under the age of six months cannot be sampled, and is meant specifically by calves, lambs, yards, etc. The document I have says it was done with the Vorgucin family. This same public service has approved and even said that this document is not valid, but that what was done by another veterinary station is fine. The Serbian Radical Party has advocated that absolutely every law passed by this government is closely monitored and complemented by quality amendments. This is what we did this time and for the second time we restored it; the only thing we agreed on yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture was in Article 30 that respected and which I submitted, but these others, very interesting, submitted by Dr Masic and fellow Members of the SRS Group, were not accepted. Again, I cannot understand that the efforts of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture Dr. Mašić, a professor at the Faculty of Agriculture, the Department of Veterinary Medicine, and that others, based on his proposed amendments, are simply accepted. It was important to accept the G17. The Serbian Radical Party will certainly not support the law in a voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20479	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and let the MP Branislav Stevanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20480	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to call this law a cursing law. Why's he bewitching? Well, you see, today we couldn't leave, or we couldn't start at 10.00 hours, and all that was going on with the law is everything you saw. This veterinary bill is probably some kind of commercial law? Why is it commercial, because it is torn from the last session of our congregation to this day, and as such it is placed on the agenda of today’s session by emergency procedure. During the last session, we commented on this law a lot, and today, colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party pointed out what it was and how it was done to detail, so that we could at least bring it a little closer to the profession, because the profession is not satisfied with such a law, although the promoter claims that all people who are related to veterinary care are consulted and have certain references. We Serbian radicals and our expert team are not satisfied with this proposed law. This dissatisfaction was expressed by the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr Zoran Mašić, who in this profession is a man of knowledge, a man of experience and a man of all references, related to veterinaryism. We, as the Serbian Radical Party, have written a lot of amendments to this law, and most of these amendments have not been accepted, probably for political reasons, since the political option proposed by this law does not respect our proposals in pure spite. The spite was also evident on the last Committee on Agriculture, as the proposings were very nervous and their arguments according to certain amendments of the Serbian Radical Party made a brief comment in the manner – however, we are not interested in it at all. We Serbian radicals will not accept such a veterinary law for several reasons. These reasons were detailed at the last meeting for this speaker, and the reasons were also recorded by our amendments, with which we wanted to at least a little focus this law on the profession and on the economic opportunities of our agricultural producers who will have the most contact with this law. I mean cattle producers, or our farmers, who are supposed to apply this law, but they're not even consulted at the moment, and they're not even economically ready to follow this law. This law leads to the erosion of the profession that we have in this area based on veterinary colleges, and we want to stop this erosion of the profession and to come up with this law in accordance with our capabilities, and not according to those orders that bring us all and propose everything as is going to be the worst for us. We know the government wants to pass this law. But we also know that the store has fallen, so you're putting it back on today as an emergency procedure. Nothing in this text has been changed except that 13 amendments have been adopted, and these amendments have not changed the essence of this and of this law. These amendments concerned the privatisation and transport of animals. What we Serbian radicals suggested you rejected it. On the Committee on Agriculture, we wanted our amendments that are related to the sphere of genetically modified organisms to be incorporated, but where would you adopt it when it comes to the essence of your wishes? Proposers of this law tend to say that this law is of a technical nature. That's not true. Apparently, the vets wrote this bill. Yes, they wrote, but the matrix and the task came from all these European commentators who came to us to open certain objects, and they crashed them during the bombing. Whether or not you will be given a matrix for a law that manifests infrequently in the means of information, which is related to the conclusion of marriages between the same sexes. Well, what you're going to say then - we've been assigned from Europe to do it. Now, we radicals are opposed to that. We knew this veterinary law would fall then. You remember that we from this pay phone pointed, commented and said that he couldn't pass this bill and he didn't even pass it. We also know that today this law will be difficult to accept. Why is it going to be hard? There's something else to read, furniture, preparation, etc. We'll see if that counterbase of this law is being set up or set up the way the proposings have prepared it, whether there's enough and all of the tools needed for harming. So it all depends on the MPs, but it will probably all be regulated in the voting day. But we also know that the entire ministry has been working these days and holding meetings with certain parliamentary groups or with individuals to pass this law. There's been a lot of pressure on information. They even hired agricultural promoters who, in a biological sense, are no longer able to promote it. The promoter hired everyone, probably the financial resources needed for this kind of job are provided from the budget, as the budget is run by a man who is of the same option as the draftr of this law. As for this agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories, we are like the Serbian Radical Party mainly and in principle against all agencies that are now being opened, or already in some, let's call, work. These agencies aim to enable the ruling coalition to employ as many of its subjects as possible and thus enable longer government activities, and nothing more these agencies can do. Each agency employs mostly 500 - 1,000 people, and that is the essence and direction of these agencies. As far as the profession itself is concerned, we, regarding this agency, have commented whether it is okay for the phytosanitary and sanitary examinations to be carried out by your agencies, which will have a certain monopoly, or which, according to some of our findings, have no reference to these reviews. Mostly they should be concerned with the protection of food for people and the protection of all phytosanitary and sanitary sampling. I think that in her address for the assembly speaker, the minister has given the reason that it was a conjecture of circumstances, related to the previous vote of no confidence in this law. It wasn't a coincidence. It was a realistic approach and a comment by all MPs in this House, so that the finding is not presented in the best way. As far as the law itself is concerned, he probably has certain parameters that our MPs can talk about. It's that animal welfare, more import control, animal tagging. That's not the essence of the law. In her presentation, the minister also had one wing that was not good quality, which is the concept "from field to table". It is a difficult concept in today's conditions, related to agriculture, and it is particularly difficult because we know that our cattle growers live in Serbia today. They live on mosses. What does that mean for mosses? They're just starting to do this breeding or tow project, and then there's all kinds of monopolies, actually, that eliminates it in different ways and doesn't allow these people to establish certain biorhythms. One of our MPs commented that the policy run by the Ministry was not good, that the ministry was flying in the clouds. I also think the Ministry of Agriculture is floating in the clouds right now, for the simple reason that it is not able to track. What could he be following with? In order to be able to monitor, there should be incentives that will probably also be converted in all those sectors that are related to agriculture. As a Serbian Radical Party, we will not support this veterinary law. Probably not all MPs, although the Minister and Proposer are probably hoping that this law will be passed, but we will fight, as we fought last time, that this law does not pass and that veterinarians who expect this law, and someone has said that it has been waiting for 14 years... He'll probably be brought in, but at some point that will regulate better quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20481	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic, and then by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Zoran Masic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20482	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing the same law for the second time. It's very hard for you who listen and for us who need to talk. Of course, there's been a lot of controversy about all the details. Many of the shortcomings of this law were brought out by the Serbian radicals behind this pay phone. In order not to repeat ourselves, we may have a shorter conversation, with something that needs to be repeated, to repeat itself. We have long become, unfortunately, a land of wonders. Those who took down our bridges are now building them, and they're walking on that bridge. We simply didn't see any Serbian flag on that bridge, no markings, to know who these people are, what they're doing, and how they behave. In addition, it should be borne in mind that we have not forgotten the bridge on Grdecica, or the process that is still under way about it. So we're not going to talk about this right now. Why this law again? This is thanks to the Socialist Party of Serbia's refusal to support when the vote on the law was held, for the colders were mentioned by Ms. Minister, which was inappropriate. Of course, things like that should be punished in the future. But Serbian Radical Party MPs expected it to be Mrs Dulic's shift, but it didn't come to that. After all, let the people of Serbia decide when it is time to vote. So, this law must be taken by force, by shortcut and by urgency, for several reasons, and by the very privatisation process that is currently in the transition in which Serbia is located. Of course, the government of Serbia and that certain structures have been given a clear task that this area should be privatised as soon as possible and will be targeted by all those veterinary institutions that are attractive to foreign investors, that they will be bought. We know for ourselves, as far as food is concerned, that she will always have her customers. Of course, foreign investors have a great interest in that. It is known that we are exclusively a agricultural country and that there is plenty of room for cattle farming. So, in addition to this privatisation, of course, we need to bring some legal standards into line when it comes to infectious diseases. We know ourselves, time-consumingly, we get some infectious diseases all the time, so we often wonder who the producers of these infectious diseases are, who has the goal of doing it. Of course, the background of all of this can also be sought in those people who rule the world’s food market. So, of course, there are some big interests that need to be realised in such an incorrect way and extremely vandal. We as a poor state, and by some events and wonderland, of course, many things we cannot meet when it comes to some of the projects required of this law. Mr. Paja Momchilov said, among other things, that I would not repeat his words, that entering the veterinary area into the area of health is really inadmissible and that there has been a little cross-border in all of this, that we should also keep in mind, of course, that everyone is doing his job and is responsible for his work. We had a lot of debates in the last session about when it came to animal transport and we expected, since this legislative project has returned to the assembly debate, that it is in this segment that you will have in mind that one part of those members change, given that we are still a poor country, that you cannot meet all these standards that are required of us, that there are people who do not have the right technical vehicle, who do not have the right trailers. Mr. Milkovic spoke of it, of course, with the mention of the "lade levels" that this passive end should get; however, you continue to look at it with a smile, you continue to ride in luxury jeeps, and normally you cannot have that feeling in which conditions people live and work. It is also interesting, when it comes to passports, some of the ways of certain ministers have been observed, which seemed to have eaten meat from mad cows, so there were strong promises that Serbian citizens would have visas and passports; unfortunately, we of our fellow citizens who came through Drina and Sava to Serbia by force did not provide the right way to get passports quickly, and we see that we have for every beef passport. Of course, the state needs to think in the direction and how to speed up livestock production, because we know ourselves that we are exclusively a agricultural state, that we have a huge number of neglected pastures. The ministry should consider how to give farmers who have more than five hectares of land through some long-term loans, through payments, through milk, meat or other means, to speed up, as we have a few cases in Capco to give five cows to farmers who, over three years, return it through milk. Therefore, it is a very good gesture of these people, but we should have more in Serbia to properly speed up the production of cattle. Also, it's interesting that a larger number of institutions, especially when it comes to the chamber, so the veterinary advice... Of course we should have an institute; we see every day, who travels on the highway that he will find more places on such a scene where that service should exist and do his job. In addition to all the institutions that should exist, however, we consider it to be an extra agency. Enough to say about agencies, it should just be stressed that the agency, which should carry out 31 activities from all areas of agriculture, livestock and fruit farming, is practically and physically, as Dr Masic said, will in practice not be able to revive and will be difficult to function. Also, what's interesting here, next to the veterinary clinic, which should exist, because we know that a large number of people have pets and when it comes to animal health, that they should pay special attention to that segment. However, it is not fully specified here, when it comes to a member referring to agricultural pharmacies, because it is said that a certain part of the medicine will not be able to be met by a veterinarian or an appropriate service, but will have to prescribe maltenes as for a human being, to go into that procedure of taking appropriate medicines. I don't think that's appropriate because we have veterinary situations that need to be intervened on the ground, so there will be major problems and will certainly come to great harm, and material, so that there will be a complex situation and virtually no one will know who will be responsible for what in this sphere. It should be noted that we as a state still do not have a farming strategy, which is necessary at this point, in which this state thinks it is investing, to speed up, to improve and help our poor rural population. Finally, it should also be said that a special accent should be given to exports, because we must be all in this uniqueness, that we know that we have neglected exports, and we have great capacities and we need much to do in that direction by our government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20483	The People's Messenger Zlatan Jovanovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20484	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's just amazing how the government got so brave that after ten days of voting on this same proposal, when the law didn't pass in this assembly, it comes back to this assembly with an identical proposal for a veterinary law. What happened in these ten days we'll know very soon, when it comes to voting this. Probably those who support the government have entered the coalition and will now vote in favour of the law. This formal investment in the coalition has been confirmed by the election of several SPS members to the boards of public enterprises appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia these days, so from now on we can say that the SPS is the coalition partner of this government, or coalition that has accounted for most of this parliament so far. As far as the proposal for a Law on Veterinaryism is concerned, the first impression is that it is too ambitious, that the Proposer had a desire to cover all the areas to which he would normally have to apply, but that in many segments he remained indeterminate and that many of the provisions were quite flat-rate, i.e. without clear mechanisms to define to the end, or completely, so that the law could be applied in practice. I will present several provisions which, in my opinion, are not in place and which should be corrected so that, if the vote passes this time, the law would be relevant and applicable. The first remark refers to Article 11, which refers to veterinary entities and how a veterinary clinic, i.e. pharmacy, can be established. Article 11 states that a licensed veterinarian, who is not in a working relationship, may establish a veterinary clinic, or a veterinary pharmacy, if he meets certain conditions prescribed by this law. That's not controversial. However, the second point is that a veterinarian established by a veterinarian who is not in a working relationship cannot organise, conduct and control the marking of animals and maintains a register of marked animals, as well as implement a programme of animal health measures in an epizootiological unit where no veterinary cell is organised. I would like to link this position of Article 11 to the second position of Article 16, where the veterinary clinic is spoken of closer, or taxing the activities of the veterinary clinic. The second point is that a veterinary clinic can organize, conduct and control the marking of animals and maintain a register of marked animals, as well as implement a programme of animal health measures in an epizootic unit where no veterinary cell is organised on the basis of the authority of the minister. It's a bit declassified in one previous, or 11 members, to say exclusively that he can't have an ambulance to do these jobs, and then in the next or after a few members say he can do it, but based on the minister's authority. So, the minister has a discretionary right to have the authority of individual infirmarys to do these jobs. This is just a place for corruption and nothing more. If there is no organised veterinary station in one area, it is perfectly logical that these tasks listed here can also be carried out by the veterinarian who exists there. Also, what has bothered me in the presentation of the minister, and in the explanation of this proposal, is that in an area where animal health protection is not organised, i.e. veterinary or cell health care, there is an opportunity for the state to organise as a public service. It explains that the state can, and the minister also said there is a possibility. In the very text of the bill it's better said - that the state of the sea, and that's what's only right. So if the service is not organized somewhere, then the state must organize it to cover all areas with animal health. The next thing I want to point out is a chamber. This law establishes a chamber. According to the information I have, the chamber already exists, so it doesn't need to be established if it already exists, it needs to be adapted to some of the new conditions that you prescribe by this law. What's also unclear is the jurisdiction of the chamber. Point 8 states that the chamber proposes the prices of veterinary services. I'm interested in who's bringing these prices. If the chamber suggests them, someone has to bring them in, adopt them and approve them. Who does that? Whether this remains only in the jurisdiction of the chamber, or the statutes, if I correctly interpret this proposal, that this should be governed by the statutes. It seems a little unserious to just leave it to the chamber without any control, because it seems to me that these prices will be high and that our peasants can't handle all that's prescribed as a price for certain services. Then, article 46 relating to zoohygienic service. This article requires local self-government to organise a zoohygienic service in its territory that will carry out certain tasks. This is good and necessary. However, no funds are provided for the establishment of such a service and its work. If it's a service, and that's what's going on here, it means that this service has several employees and that those persons who are supposed to do this job here have the right technical equipment. It's a new cost for our local administrations, which are also in a difficult material state. I believe that there should have been some resources for the work of those services here. Furthermore, Article 47 discusses the advice for veterinary purposes, that the minister may set up a veterinary advice to assist him in performing his duties under his jurisdiction. That's not a question, either. However, in an explanation, this advice is treated as a scientific advice, which has caused me little distraction, and in that sense I am responding to this. So it's not a scientific advice, it's a veterinary advice and it can't be a scientific advice that the minister will advise. Article 71 speaks of damage compensation in cases where various epidemics, infectious diseases occur and when the Ministry orders certain throats to be killed to stop the disease and prevent it from spreading. In this case, it is well anticipated that the level of damage to animal owners is compensated. That's good. However, it is not good that this member is not defined until the end. This is where the deadline stays. The period of 30 days in which the claim for compensation for damages is submitted shall be provided. So, the owner of the animal that was killed under the Ministry's orders to prevent the spread of the infectious disease has the right to compensation for damages and must submit a request within 30 days of the submission of the minutes. However, there is no deadline for the minister to make a decision on the compensation of the damage. So it's in one view that the minister is making a solution, but no mention of a deadline. What's the right of the owner of the animal worth, if he'll wait a year for that damage to be compensated? So the deadlines for making a decision by the minister should also be foreseen. Also, article 84 discusses the marking and records of animals. That's good, we should mark all the throats in the territory of the Republic. However, it is not good for the cost of following this job to fall on the burden of animal owners. So all the owners of cattle, sheep, goats, and maybe the pig, if I read it correctly, have to pay the cost of recording those throats. You know that the village is in a difficult situation, that our peasants, especially this year, are exhausted by low ransom prices for all their products, that they have no material resources and can't handle this. And here the Republic, the Government, was to intervene; given that, as the finance minister said, the budget was being quoted, that there were too many funds, that we had made some positive rebalancing, at least funds were to be provided for free of charge during the initial period, i.e. in the first phase, that the Republic was to finance the marking of the throat. I think these peasants will find it hard to accept, that there will be a lot of resistance because they're hitting on their budget, which is so exhausted. Finally, the establishment of a public enterprise for the destruction of animal carcasses and other animal waste is being discussed. It's a republican public enterprise. This is still not controversial, but it seems to me that the relationship between this public republican company and these services that have been established or established at local level has not been established. Who will assume in certain situations the responsibility or obligation to take over the corpse of an animal and transport it to a specific animal body collection facility? Article 119 is disputed, as it says that performing the tasks of collecting, processing and destroying the bodies of animals and other animal waste, the Ministry can trust legal persons who meet the prescribed conditions with a contract. So again, it gives some discretionary right to the minister to choose a legal person, means a company, a private firm that can do these jobs and who will be entrusted with doing these jobs, probably with a certain fee, which is once again a space for corruption. I ask whether this member, or this activity, is subject to the Public Procurement Act. It is likely that a tender should be opened, so that through a tender or competition a legal person will be selected to perform these tasks. Since Mr. Markovic is not present, I will end this, but I had one parliamentary question for Mr. President of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20485	The word has a folk MP, Professor Zoran Mašić. The remaining time for debate in the Serbian Radical Party's principle is 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20486	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Minister and Mr. Krnjajic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, at first I would like to point out the democracy and pluralism of the Serbian Radical Party, and for the sake of you present MPs and for the sake of our overall both civil and professional public, because certainly every MP can give his view of the law, and in that sense the MPs of the SRS have discussed. Normally, one is a political direction and a commitment, which is common and binding for all of us. It is precisely for the reason that something that we have proposed for the interest of the profession and for the interests of the citizens to be corrected in the veterinary law, since it is not accepted by the promoter, is primarily specific to our political position in terms of the adoption of the veterinary law. The law on the agency for veterinary, phytosanitary and sanitary laboratories is criticised by all MPs and, of course, it is both politically and professionally unacceptable to us. I would like to point out a few things that are precisely in the veterinary law may not be sufficiently regulated, although the truth is working, and that is also mentioned here, with two amendments it is changing, but I again regret that it is not proposed in the integrated text of the bill. First of all, it is an animal transport, which is Article 96, where it was a suggestion and a proposal to regulate in a different way when means of transport must be registered with the Ministry, and when transport can only be carried out in means of transport that meet the hygiene and technical conditions. I am pleased that it has been proposed by the ministry to the MPs of the other parliamentary group to propose an amendment that has been accepted and that the text given in the draft law will be amended in the final form. However, I am sorry and it is unacceptable from a professional point of view that no amendment to Article 115 has been accepted, which is the transport of reproductive material, where we also wanted to point out as a parliamentary group the need for legal regulation of the ban on imports of cloned embryos. Because it's something that maybe in the next five or ten years it'll be a reality, so we'll have institutions that will deal with the production of cloned embryos and market offers. In theory, there's a possibility that someone might come up with an idea and import something like that, that they're using, and as unknown as genetically modified organisms, the larger the unknowns are cloned embryos of animals. Unfortunately, the promoter did not want to accept this amendment and will remain without a clear definition in Article 115 of the ban on imports of cloned embryos. I also regret that the applicant has not accepted amendments to Article 124 of the Veterinary Act, which is about issuing import licences and animal transport permits, where we have also proposed that the authorisation to import must be determined at the same time and subsequently carried out a laboratory diagnostic examination. So, not as the proposer suggested – that it can be determined, but we have decidently asked that it is an obligation to determine the interrogation. We suggested that with a lot of arguments and a great reason. The reason is that we have the last month with an imported contingent of cows from the Netherlands imported by Imlek from Belgrade, where these animals in their accompanying documentation had health assurance that they were free from infectious diseases, and here they are in our diagnostic facilities. specialist institutions, where a diagnostic study has been carried out, have established that a certain number of these throats have been infected with leukosis, IBR, means an infectious bovine rhinotrachet, which is one herpes-viral infection of cattle, and are infected with the Bovine Diarrhoea virus and even a certain number of animals have had abortions or abortions due to this. First of all, I think that the Ministry of Media should have declared that it is protesting the Dutch Ministry of Agriculture and the companies that exported those throats and certified that they are healthy and that we have identified these infectious diseases here, which are not allowed under our regulations. Animals that are in reproduction or income must be free from these diseases, especially leukosis; and we also have these infectious bovine rhinotrachets, but we have also had farms that have had the eradication of this disease, and also bovine viral diarrhoea, only titres have been found, but there have been no cases of abortions, where the virus is isolated. They were animals in an acute infection. This absolutely says that the obligation of the Ministry to issue an import licence is mandatory to require diagnostic testing of live animals, as we believe it is mandatory to control products of animal origin, food of animal origin and food for animals. Because it has been there occasionally in the earlier period whether it has been issued by suppliers, foreign suppliers, health assurances, and that our laboratory studies have identified the contamination or infection of some microorganisms. I think that there was a basis to accept, and I suggested that, in this period of transition, every permit, every import solution implies a control obligation, and not like this -- it can, because it will mean then that maybe some importer has the privilege of importing something and not having to examine it, and some will have to question it. Also, I'm sorry that what we proposed to the amendments about the privatisation was not accepted. Although a certain amendment has at least put something into this law and regarding the privatisation of public veterinary services, we have suggested that the privatisation of public veterinary services will be carried out under the Government's programme. The proposed new amendments have been proposed, with the agreement and support of the agriculture ministry, that this will be done according to the government's decision. We think that it doesn't really mean anything, because, of course, it's about privatising public service and anyone who starts it has to make a decision, but the decision is one thing, and the programme by which they're going to privatise is something else. We stood up for the program. However, it was not accepted. I want to say a few more words about this agency law, because I haven't said anything at all. Absolutely, my personal opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary group is that this law should have been withdrawn from the procedure and that it will essentially not improve qualitatively in the work of laboratories that are now doing this work, both veterinary, so phytosanitary and sanitary. It was simply not necessary to succumb to the European Agency for Reconstruction, because that requirement was laid down by the end of 2002 and in early 2003, and based on this requirement, this bill had to be made, but it was necessary to look at our real state, to establish reference laboratories that meet certain technical and personal conditions and to declare them as reference and to define them to do work for the state, with all the state control that the Ministry of Agriculture has absolutely under the existing law and will have a new one. It's unacceptable not to declare national laboratories... So, I think that two institutions almost have nothing today that could be national. It's a national phytosanitary and sanitary laboratory in Batajnica and a national veterinary laboratory. The vets know which is the most equipped and professional veterinary facility in this country. So, without any boasting, it's the Institute of Novi Sad, and by the equipment and by the professional staff. If someone was to be declared a national, then it was to be the Institute of New Sad, because it has all the resources. He has a third-level safety lab, so that's where you can deal with highly contagious matter. In addition, the Institute of Ratio and Vrvat is, whatever opinion the Ministry of Agriculture has, the most professional and most equipped plant production institute in our country and could not have imagined one such agency without one of these laboratories from the institute. If nothing else, only these two arguments are sufficient to more seriously approach our proposal to withdraw this law from the procedure and prepare differently. Since time is up, respecting the time of all those present, I will speak of this in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20487	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint principled search on the Proposal for a Veterinary Law and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Veterinary, Phytosanitary and Veterinary Laboratorys. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law amending the Transport Law in the Drumsical Transport Service You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I would like to inform you that representatives of the parliamentary groups are authorised: in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group and the 9+9 independent MPs on the 3rd agenda, MP Miroslav Markicevic, and the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Bojan Kekic. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Since the minister isn't in the O.R., I'm setting a break of ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20488	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the break, we continue to work on the 3rd item of the agenda - a bill amending the Law on Transport in Road Traffic. The chairman has already asked MP groups who did not do so to immediately submit statements with the order of MPs. Since it is in accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an open principled search, I ask the representative of Proposer Velimir Ilic, Minister of Capital Investments, if he wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20489	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we recently passed the Road Transport Act. However, an amendment has been adopted, which is on Article 36(4), and our proposal is to delete Section 4. There have been some problems, since this was not the government's proposal, because a number of problems have arisen in practice, especially in cities and local administrations. To the intervention of many cities that asked for this attitude to be erased, to remove the anarchy that would occur in transport, we submitted a proposal to delete Section 4. I ask you to support us and resolve this so that we have one much easier problem and that local authorities function better, that they organize themselves and that cities can organize transportation as is best and most functional for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20490	Thank you, Mr. Ilic. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) (Tomislav Nikolic: How is the committee not held? ) Please, this is an emergency procedure and it doesn't have to be, so we have to work on the Rules of Procedure. I ask, do the presidents, or do the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20491	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a law passed by the National Assembly, and it's about attitude four, which was adopted only a few months ago by the majority of the votes of the MPs. Now, again, most of the votes of the MPs will erase the stance they adopted several months ago. The reason for introducing this attitude is clear and whoever wants to erase it opens the way for bribery and corruption. Therefore, my dear representatives of the ruling majority, if you want to convince Serbia that you are against bribery and corruption, do not limit your ability to work, do not leave your agga and escapes in local self-governments the possibility of creating restrictions for those who want to deal with certain jobs, because it has never done well, nor will it ever bring good. I'm following a television, media noise that you yourself made about getting into a situation to erase this. You bring representatives of the taxi organization to tell you about how many taxi drivers in one city should be to make transport optimal. Where's your market? Where's the competition? Competition determines how many taxis should be in one city, not the president of the municipality, not the mayor, not the municipal majority in the municipality, not the municipal council. What does that mean? Someone's going to estimate how many people can handle taxis, and now they're doing so much. So you've closed one occupation for future generations, completely closed. Does the Constitution allow you to do that? Did the Constitution say that you have the right to restrict people who want to do certain work? What restrictions can you put on them? Qualification, organisational conditions, equipment, quality of service, and absolutely no number. Did you limit the number of foundries? Did you limit the number of the TV station? Did you limit the number of road transport operators? Where is it - except that the lawyer makes the same mistake and determines who can be a lawyer, and who can't, the chamber receives it or doesn't receive it - there are still limits for people who want to practice certain deeds? In cities, in taxis, where you can get a license to do that job for money. The government's representatives acknowledged that the amendment is good and that it prevents bribery and corruption, and now the Serbian government is reporting that it has not even proposed such a member's appearance, has not thought of it and that this member can be freely deleted because the government has not proposed it in its own time. It is not a restriction that it was proposed by the MPs and voted by the MPs. The government is telling us cynicalally - wipe this out, we didn't even suggest it. Why don't you say the other part, how to erase what you suggested yourself and vote for it yourself. Who's going to get ashes from the Members of the People's Parliament here now? What proved to be wrong with this amendment? Chaos in transportation in cities? Where's that? They complained, he says, about cities and municipalities why there are no limited numbers of people who can handle taxis – let me trust you. Maybe the decision-makers are complaining because now he doesn't have only 100 or 300 licenses, because now he doesn't have a license at all to make money. This proves to us that you do not understand at all what needs to be done in this society, that bribes and corruption should be eliminated. That's the basic goal of this society. I know we can't provide people with millions of dollars, houses, cars, good jobs, but we can protect them from crime and one of its branches called bribery and corruption. If the government shows such solutions that it will not stop, then this government not only does not have enough MPs to support it in this assembly, this government has lost its sense of basic human values, especially morals. At a time when many civil servants and many public ministers are attacking for bribery and corruption, the government is passing one corruption law and abolishing an anti-corruption provision in one law. The government of the Republic of Serbia tells us it wants to limit the number of people who can do one job. It'll be quite simple for you. For you, it's a law that doesn't even need to be discussed. She suggested a government change of a member, we raise our hands and go home. I warn you that this, in fact, reflects the value of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This reflects her goals, her intentions, her aspirations. This reflects small politicians who are involved in politics for one season, and it especially reflects our minister who first came to power and forgot when he was in opposition and thinks he'll never be in opposition again. He went from the media to the media to speak ill of who? The Serbian Radical Party. This puts a finger around most Serbian citizens who know that we are much better people than both the minister and his party and those he brought to the Serbian government. Let it be noted that Velimir Ilic has proposed one corruption law and that this reflects the structure of Velimir Ilic and Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20492	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20493	I know someone wants to come to power, but they don't know how. I also know that someone was in power and that he was the vice president of the government that the people of the poles drove out of power. This power will never be driven from power by sticks. I don't want to waste time here and replicate, I didn't even come here to talk about corruption and bribery. It's not true that this is a corruption law. Gentlemen, we are serious people. There's been a mess. Why the chaos? You know that whoever leaves the Bureau's records and logs in to perform some work gets a very favourable loan. What's going on? All these people sign up, buy a car and come here to be taxi drivers. We're making licenses for taxi drivers, and there's something we can do about it. However, professional associations that exist, cab drivers' associations and all others must be respected and must be considered if we are to do something good So I was well-trained while your boss was speaking, and you, a serious man, are throwing it all the time. [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] I can't believe a fellow MP is acting like that. It really doesn't make sense. I came here to present something I prepared. You're criticizing and attacking, it stands, but I didn't come here to argue and argue with you, to throw. He should be well-trained and well-behaved. So we're not here to campaign, etc. The fact that I'm attacking you in the media, I can't remember attacking you anywhere. That you also attack – so you spit on this government every day, it's not normal; this government that everyone in the world praises, except you don't see that shift. After all, you never understood or saw anything. So, we won't mind you now. As you are, as you are, you are ours, and we love you, we like you very much. So I have a crush on you, always have a good time listening to you. Fight you too, we fight you, but not so many ugly words. We are very correct to you and I am very correct to you. I don't see that any of the municipalities where you in power had one single problem with me and this government. We're very correct with each other on the ground, but here, my God, we accept everything you say, but be a little more polite and I won't be angry. I have to listen to you, and you've listened to me. So we're gonna do this properly. The MPs will say theirs. If we get most of it, good for you. If we don't win, as the amendment passed last time, it's a great honor again. That's the situation. Therefore, it is parliamentaryism. That's what we fought for, you and me. It shouldn't take so many ugly words – it's not good for the government. The government, as it is, but it's good, everyone says it's good, only you say it's bad, and those who left parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20494	Replica, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20495	Here, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've had a chance to hear the "fine" minister. Let me remind you, it's the one who came to Belgrade with a bug to tear down Belgrade and beat the police wherever he met. It is the "fine" minister who calls for fineness here, and says: "The people have driven you away from the poles of power." Ministers, firstly, the people went to the streets on October 5th for Milosevic, not for the Republic government. The fact that you later assumed power in the Republic of Serbia, past the Constitution and the law, is a sign of how nice you are. It seems to me that you've led the people to prevent the theft of the presidential election in the SRJ, not to drive the Republic Government out of power by stick. You say it's rough words when I tell you from here that the government is bad, and you're a nice man who dared to stick one government out of power. Now I ask you, Mr. Minister, if I were as rude as you and if I were to call 100,000 people in Belgrade right now, I'd come 500 thousand, and I'd chase you with a pole, would I be a "fine" minister after that? Who built you those arches? There's something I can never forgive myself. At the time I was vice president of the government, I was supposed to get involved in that when you were caught running away during the bombing. I knew where you were hiding, Mr. Minister. It looks like Serbia should have been saved then.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20496	Since there are no more registered representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups, I would like to inform you that it is in accordance with Article 93(4). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of the search, in the spirit of this debate, "fine" application for a word in writing, with the order of MPs, submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I give my word to the People's Messenger Vjerica Radeta, and let the MPs of the people be prepared, Nemanja Sarovic, and then the MP of the people Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what the president of the assembly just said earlier, that the only parliamentary group that has reported MPs talking about this SRS parliamentary group is about the seriousness of this parliament, that is, the seriousness of parliamentary groups. What is happening today in the afternoon and now in the follow-up session is the rape of parliamentaryism, the rape of the National Assembly. This is amazing, laugh all you want, this is not funny, this is tragic, sad, sad, miserable, and hard for us, hard for Serbia with this government, Mr Velimir Ilic, and with this attitude towards the National Assembly and the people of Serbia. You dare... First, your colleague says before you – by chance, it happened that her law was not passed. Unbelievable! With the most normal vote, the law was not passed, and twice voted during the day, Markovic violated the Rules of Procedure, and she says today that no law has been passed by the game. You explain today that there was an amendment that, after all, was not an amendment to the government. I really need to cross myself in front of the cameras, this is amazing. You, in the light of the law, say, "Since it is justified to ask the question of the consistency of Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Articles 36. The Law on Transport in Road Traffic, which was created by the adoption of the amendment and implemented in paragraph 4, which was not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is considered necessary to delete this position. "Dear colleagues, have you seen and heard such a miracle in the parliamentary practice of modern Europe, the modern world and Serbia? So we here need to be a voting machine, as Minister Ilic and Vojislav Kostunica think, and everything the government suggests we just vote, we say it's okay, that's right, and we're not doing anything here. Instead of being grateful to the MPs who seriously approach, suggestions and amendments intervene and are trying to edit some of the proposals that you are giving us, you dare to criticise the MPs and leave a mark so black on white that it is necessary to delete this attitude because it came from the National Assembly, not from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If it's from you, it's too much, really. The real situation, which is why you are doing this, Mr. Velimir Ilic, is you and Nenad Bogdanovic and you know it well – the administration of the city of Belgrade is the only administration in Serbia that does not apply this law with this amendment that you want to delete today. In all other cities, in all other municipalities since the law came into force, which was at the end of July, the law is normally applied, and Nenad Bogdanovic has passed several regulations that he has put aside the law that was passed in the Assembly. Nenad Bogdanovic said in agreement with you that he had no conditions for Belgrade to apply this law. Who asks him if there are any conditions? The law was passed by parliament, passed by the National Assembly, and who asks Nenad Bogdanovic and Velimir Ilic whether the law can be applied. It's gotta be applied. Why did you hurry up with this, Mr. Ilich? Because the Constitutional Court decision was made on September 28th (and soon, fellow MPs, we will have this law with amendments and additions) where they were put out of force and Bogdanovic's regulation and where it is said that the unconstitutional restriction of work is a violation of the right to work is what you are trying to do through this law and what Bogdanovic did through his regulations. You know that the Constitutional Court decision was made, or at least they know in your service, so they persuaded you to go back and forth with a law like this. The decision has not been published yet, but it is a matter of the day when it will be, so I ask you what you will do when that Constitutional Court decision is announced in a certain day, and the creature was made on September 28th of this year, so about ten days ago. They come out cabbies unregistered to close the streets, cab drivers get out registered to shut down the streets; these get up because you don't give them a license, these guys get up because you want to give them licenses. Then you're nice, like the government that's legalist, you've assessed who's more; there's more registered than unregistered taxi drivers, and to do a service to registered taxi drivers, there's more votes in the election. You see, we Serbian radicals have been honest with this people, we have always been and always will be – and we know that there are fewer unregistered taxi drivers than registered taxi drivers, but we also know that banning unregistered taxi drivers is a violation of constitutional right to work and we say that, we do not ask how much it costs. That's all you think about, Mr. Ilic, and you, and Vojislav Kostunica and the complete government. I told you, when we spoke in July about this law, hire the inspectors, Mr. Ilic, to arrange it with Nenada Bogdanovic, so the inspectors can arrange the state of taxi drivers on the streets of Belgrade and on the streets of Serbia. Do you know how many taxi drivers are in Belgrade, do you know how many taxi drivers who have double work books, who are employed there somewhere, and work as taxi drivers in their spare time? Do you know how many cabby fathers retired and a taxi plate puts a son on the car and drives? They're all endangering, normally, these taxi drivers who are in associations, who are registered, who pay taxes, contribute, and on the other hand threaten those who can't start working because of them. Today I spoke to a taxi driver (I often use a taxi, and they know that this is on the agenda) who is a member of the association and who does not have a personal interest in adopting this law, but says – say freely, ma'am, for a pay phone, all taxi drivers will confirm to you that there are no more than 5,000 legal taxi drivers in Belgrade. You're telling the story of 7,000 taxi drivers. That's probably where you count the ones at the airport. Do you know how taxi drivers work at the airport and how taxi drivers work at Hayatt, bus and train stations? A cab driver can't come to the airport. He'll get his ass kicked if some normal man comes. There are those who have been there for 20 years, who are dealing with some employees at the airport: he nicely calls a taxi, it is known that a taxi driver can come with him and then a stranger comes fine, because you have many foreigners coming to you, a stranger comes to Serbia, pays 30 euros, comes to Hayat, and it is not much, 30 euros from the airport to the hotel. But what happens when he returns home – he asks the service at the front desk to provide a taxi, they call a taxi and he returns from Hayat on the same route to the airport for 570,00 dinars. Then he wonders what kind of country he's come to and how it's done in this country. That problem, Mr. Ilic, you should also take care of such problems. That's your jurisdiction. It is not your jurisdiction to lecture the MPs. You nice gentleman, you nice gentleman who swears to a cop's mother, who shoots a reporter with a file. Mr. Ilic, we haven't been here since yesterday, neither have you, we know each other. So, Mr. Ilic, arrange a taxi ride to Serbia. Please engage your inspectors. Order them to work for the money they get in the form of a salary, not for the money they get from taxi drivers that give them under the grain. When you fix it, when you stop it, there won't be too many taxi drivers in Belgrade or Serbia. Some of the unregistered taxi drivers (they were at your place for the interview and you know it) have not been allowed to work for three years; some have received these permits in the meantime. Do you know how only some of them got pulled out of their hats and got their licenses, about 500 won, and 2,500 hasn't won yet? Can you tell us what the criteria were, how much that criterion cost? Why is it that all these people are allowed to... You say they buy a car and they want to be taxi drivers. Of course, they have to buy a car. You don't mind. They have to take the city's knowledge. They're getting a few thousand tax there -- and you let it go, you don't mind. They have to pay for the aesthetic inspection of the vehicle - and you let it go, you don't mind. They applied to register, they were written what else they needed to supplement, what documentation, what they did, and then they said – now they can't, not Nenad Bogdanovic. Since Nenad Bogdanovic's rule in Belgrade, these problems with taxi drivers have existed in Belgrade. There are problems with taxi drivers all over Serbia because your ministry, which is competent, has not taken this problem seriously, Mr. Ilic. Why didn't you push for it, and why don't you argue to allow taxi drivers to import vehicles with reduced customs duties? To them, it's a basic means of working. Imagine generous governments – taximeters can be imported without taxes, and the vehicle cannot. What else did you do? These people had, now that they were unfavourable and expensive loans, but what they're going to do is, the people took loans and taxi drivers had an average of 18,000 dinars. On that average, they paid taxes and contributions. What happened now? Now they've been separated by Mr. Ilic and Dinkic, sometimes they weren't very in love, and today they're fine with it when it's against the people, they've been separated, and they've been paid for a special amount of contributions, taxes are paid, and then these people pay them a contribution of 12,000 dinars; with 12,000 dinars, and that they will, they can't even buy their new car on credit. Mr. Ilic, this isn't a problem that you can easily cross, it's not what you thought, in a minute or two, to say something here and we don't say anything. You've agreed with those who voted for the amendment last time, now you've agreed with them to vote to delete that amendment, but of course, it's your intra-coalization stuff, now I'm not going to go into it, but we'll talk about it soon in the election campaign. I call once again on you not to play with the National Assembly and to order at the cabinet session, because today it is only a second time in a single day, to tell Vojislav Kostunica, legalists, and we will invite him, because according to the Rules of Procedure, we have the right to explain how this legalism is conducted live, how one law can be passed in July, not to be applied, not to be applied by only one mayor, one Nenad Bogdanovic. Now, like, Nenad Bogdanovic and his legalists left the Assembly, they're not gonna help the government, they're not, but you're better off asking them to please you, to please Nenada Bogdanovic, so you can get them back to the Assembly Hall. Mr. Velimir Ilic, you know we know very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20498	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, and I do not believe there will be time for the next speaker, MP Momir Markovic, to begin tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20499	I'll speak until 6:00, and then tomorrow morning I'll continue at 10.00. (President: I will interrupt you at 1800 hours, and if you do not finish, of course you will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. That you'll interrupt me, Mr. Markovic, I don't doubt that at all. But we've been punished several times today. We were first punished for having to wait here from 10:00 to 11.00 hours for you to gather, so when you didn't get together at 11.00 hours, you said to wait until 12:00, so we waited 12.00 to 12.30 hours, and then we had to listen to the next fifteen or twenty minutes of any nebulous explanations, to suffer insults and violations of the Rules of Procedure. Then came a new punishment: within a week we are in a position to discuss again the law which we have already debated. It's about the veterinary law. No one here has found it appropriate to say what has changed, who insults the National Assembly by making a legal solution, which has already been declared by the Assembly that it does not want to support it, that it does not want to exist in Serbia's legal system, again in the same form here before us. It didn't occur to the minister to say -- here, now you should vote for it and that, and maybe it shouldn't have been because of some other things. A similar system continues now, and we are still discussing the law that the National Assembly has already given its word. Clearly, the congregation's majority... And I will remind you, all parliamentary groups voted in favour of this amendment submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia. As I recall, this was unanimously adopted, and now you're telling us that this wasn't proposed by the government and it's why it needs to be deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, and this is especially true for the ruling majority, because we from the Serbian Radical Party will retain the position we had the previous time, and those who change from day to day, from opportunity to opportunity, will have to explain to the citizens of Serbia why it was done, whether it was because of the boards, whether it was because of something else, whether it was cash payment, I really don't know. But I don't think it's a good idea to play with either the people or the Republic Assembly. I don't know if Predrag Markovic will tell one of the famous reports next time – here, we've passed so many laws; whether this one member that we have on the agenda today, and not even a full member, but just deletes one of the four positions of Article 36. The Law on Transport in Road Traffic, will this be the famous efficiency of the National Assembly? Whether he'll think of it as saying - we've passed 150 laws, but that's why we've discussed 30 laws three times, though, about some and four times, about some twice. Is that efficiency? Are you going to extend tomorrow's work indefinitely because you've been working effectively for three or four hours today? Mr. Markovic, since my colleagues tell me that you have any gestures behind my back again, I must warn you that it is not polite and if you have anything to say, and these are rhetorical questions, you answer the word nicely, come out for the pay phone, so in the manner that it is appropriate say what you have.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20500	Mr. Sarovic, please talk about a subject that's on the agenda. Of course, if I had anything to say to you, I would say it in the Rules of Procedure, but I really have nothing to say to you and don't mind the gestures of the MPs. Be nice and talk about the point that's on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20501	Mr. Markovic, if you have nothing to say to us, please don't interrupt me, because this is how we get into a situation where you interrupt me to tell me that you have nothing to say to me, I don't think that's the picture you want Serbian citizens to look at. Furthermore, as far as this law is concerned, I said it was one member that regulates the erasure of Article 36; another member says the law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". What's somewhat surprising is that you didn't say that this law should come into effect the day after the announcement in the Official Messenger. We have had such a situation for many other laws that deserved it much less than this, given the reasons that you state as reasons why this should be done as quickly as possible. Furthermore, if we are talking about a constitutional-legal basis for the adoption of this law, the argument is completely unambiguous because you have called here on Article 72(1) point 4. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, under which the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides, among other things, the legal position of businesses and other organisations. Thus, Article 36, paragraph 4, states: "In the course of the adoption of the programme under Section 2 of this section of the municipality, or city, they do not have the right to restrict the number of persons capable of carrying a car taxi on the territory of the municipality, or city. "It's not about companies or other organizations. We all know very well that taxi drivers can work on their own, they don't have to build a company, or they have to be members of some taxi association and an absolute member of Section 1 point 4, which you called for, has nothing to do with what the law says. If you have already applied to the Constitution, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you should have given what is the basis for the adoption of the law, you should have started not from Article 72, but from Article 13. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which says: "Citizens are equal in rights and duties and have equal protection against state and other bodies regardless of race, gender, birth, language, nationality, religion, political or other confidence, education, social origin, property or personal property. "So equal in rights and duties. Everyone has the same right to perform a certain profession. Everyone has the same right to be a taxi driver, whether these or those nationalities, whether he voted for the SRS or for another party. So, the Constitution itself forbids you to share your citizens on any basis. Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says: "Everyone has the right to work. "Station 2: "Be assured of freedom of work, free choice of profession and employment and participation in governance. Everyone is, under equal conditions, available job and function. "So what you want to do is completely against the constitution. We wouldn't mind if you had prescribed certain conditions, such as the conditions that are now prescribed by someone who wants to perform that occupation must meet. But whoever, gentlemen, fulfils those conditions, you must give him permission. I ask you, is the next thing you will forbid, or limit the number of bakers? We have a bakery on every other corner in Belgrade. Why don't you say that -- there's a lot of 3,000 bakers in town, enough to be 1,000. Why are you supposed to be worried, and that's not a real concern, because you're diving crocodile tears for cab drivers, so why don't you just say that there's enough to be 1,000 bakers? The first 1,000 they opened can work and no one can open the bakery anymore. Or a volcano store, or a law firm or any other profession. Go ahead and say any other profession where you say there can be so many in the country. It's absolutely unacceptable and inappropriate. This is how you return to some kind of communist planned economy. What does this have to do with anything? Find me a European convention, that's your favorite theme, call it, say it - this is the way to Europe. Is this what Europe has forbidden us to come to Europe by taxi? Shall we walk to Europe? Or how are we gonna go? JAT? Is it normal for you to prescribe such restrictions? What about freedom of choice of job, what about free economy, what about free market competition? We used to make laws here in the area. Says Minister Ilic - we prepare licenses for taxi drivers. That's what I believe. Then, gentlemen taxi drivers, you who think you'll get something because someone will be banned from doing that job, who doesn't pay on the bridge, pay on the pot, pay fat, I guarantee you, for these licenses. It's probably going to be a new agency, so the director of the NS agency will have the highest court president's salary, so you guys who've been doing that job for 20 or 30 years, there's gonna be someone you're gonna have to come here and license yourself for, but you're gonna have to meet the new conditions again, so you're gonna have to pay, you're gonna have to grease. You'll be more expensive to get out of this license than your license. Says the minister – this law is necessary to remove anarchy in transport. I can also accept that the minister, despite being a doctor of science, is not a lawyer, so that he cannot understand certain things, but there are once again gentlemen of the Republic of legislation and should explain to him that once this law has entered into force, you cannot take away those rights under that law. All those who have submitted in the meantime, from the day of entry into force of the Transport Act in road transport, until the day this law enters into force, and that will be in two weeks, all who wish to have two weeks left to endure, because you first have to vote this, to publish in the Official Messenger, and only the eighth day when it comes into force, then those rights disappear – what will happen to these people. So, what happens to those who, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, by the Law on Transport in Road Traffic, bring all the provisions to the city level that regulate the conditions that someone has to do in order to take a taxi ride, what does he have to do to get that permit? Whether you can deny these people the right or, regardless of what they had legal right, you will tell them – you know, we agreed differently in the meantime. Since, Mr. Markovicu, we from the Serbian Radical Party do not want to violate the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say that it is until 1800 hours, I will now finish and I will continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-10-12-0.u20502	Since today's work hours have run out, we'll continue tomorrow at 10.00. First, Mr. Sarovic will continue, and then the word has a People's MP Momir Markovic, then Veroljub Arsic. At the same time, I would like to inform you that all the responsible MPs who want to check again what has been done and what they have done to help this country can not only in the president's reports, where all the laws and amendments and amendments to the law are detailed, regardless of which on the National Assembly's website to verify all the data. Thank you for your responsibility. I'll see you in the morning at 10.00. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Before we move on to the official part, let me congratulate everyone on your name and name on the great football players of Serbia-Montenegro, who are going to the World Cup! Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there is a sufficient number of MPs present to start the working day. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Velimir Stanojevic, Dejan Rajcic and Aleksandar Lazarevic. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON TRANSFERATION LAW IN DRUMS COOPERATION (the follow-up in principle) last night we interrupted the session at 18.03 hours, by suspending his presentation by MP Nemanja Sarović, who now has a word, and getting ready for MP Momir Marković, so Velimir Simonović, and Veroljub Arsic. I want to give you two information. The Traffic and Communications Committee has an immediate meeting in the fifth floor hall. The second notice is about the way we're going to work today and the next days. Since the Assembly does not meet on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, today we will only work on the Rules of Procedure until the end of the search of the 1st point of the agenda in particular, which will begin at 16.55 p.m., because 24 hours must pass from the end of the principle debate until the beginning in particular. Therefore, only until the end of the debate in the particulars of the 1st point of the agenda – the veterinary law. So, the debate on this law will begin at 16.55 p.m. Tomorrow the Assembly won't be in session, and the sequel will be scheduled for Monday, so you can schedule your activities. Thank you for your patience. Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
