ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19015	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 77 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least one-third of the MPs are not present, which is why, pursuant to Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'll postpone the session by one hour. [[After break, 11.00]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. more than one third of the MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Goran Davidovic, Vojkan Tomic, Slobodan Pajovic, Velimir Stanojevic and Vladan Vucevic. Since the National Assembly has completed a principle search on all the points of daily work of this session, we are moving to search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CIVILITY OF THE GOVERNMENT(s) You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Snezana Lakić-Stojačić, Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Milan Stanimirović, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Marko Krstin, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasić, Momir Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Branislav Blažić, Veroljub Arsic, Vojislav Milajić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Zlatan Jovanovic, Miljan Radovanjko Cevrović, Milan Stević, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Milorad Mirčić, Sreto Perić, Žarko Obradović and Vojkan Tomić. National MP Zarko Obradovic, written in writing, withdrew the amendment to Article 89. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on European Integration, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members, we have proposed an amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. We suggested that it be changed and said, "The government is overseeing the work of the government's authorities." Otherwise, on the basis of this bill, Article 3 reads: "The work of the government authorities is subject to the supervision of the government, and the National Assembly oversees the work of the authorities of the state administration through the supervision of the work of the Government and the members of the Government. Through the administrative dispute, courts oversee the legality of individual acts of the authorities of the state administration adopted in administrative disputes." We believe that Article 3. The draft law comes out of the constitutional frameworks under which the National Assembly exercises control over the work of the Government, that is Article 73 point 11. The Constitution, and the Government oversees the work of ministries and special organisations, in Article 90(7). The constitution is regulated. Proposal for a Law, pages 2 and 3. – it is concluded that the National Assembly oversees the work of the State Administration Authority through the supervision of the work of the Government and its members, i.e. through administrative dispute the work of the State Administration Authority is subject to and supervised by courts. That, of course, is not possible. We all know that the government can undo some sort of public administration solution. The congregation can't do that. The Assembly can only oversee the political work of the Government, and the proposed amendment believes that the definition of supervision is being restored to the frameworks of the Constitution and the law. Thank you. President: thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19018	Ladies and gentlemen, ten days ago, we were here discussing the government's bill on state administration. We talked in principle, and today, after all this time, we're talking about amendments, or we're having a discussion about details. I wonder how many MPs, and it also refers to a representative of the government, are able to recall what we were saying about the bill ten days ago. This is what I am saying to draw attention once again to the senselessness of the Rules of Procedures which you have adopted here with the assembly majority and thus lead to an absurd situation of the work of Members of Parliament, that is, the work and functioning of Parliament. In Article 3. The proposal for a law on state administration is about the supervision of the authorities of the state administration. We have something very interesting that the government has suggested that, the work of the government authorities is subject to government supervision, the National Assembly oversees the work of the authorities of the state administration through the supervision of the work of the Government and the members of the Government, through the administrative dispute the courts oversee the legality of individual acts of the authorities of the state administration adopted in administrative matters. What's the problem here? What seems to have now become the new government of the Republic of Serbia's manners, yesterday we discussed a law that had the same problem, and this Article 3. The draft law on state administration is unconstitutional. You, Mr. Balinovac, when you spoke in the principle debate, quoted a member of the Constitution as talking about supervision and couldn't find what you predicted in the bill. The National Assembly in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is regulated by Articles 73, 74, 75, 76 to 82. Article 73, item 1 of point 11 states that, among other things, the National Assembly "is in control of the work of the Government and other bodies and officials responsible for the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law". So, a very clear and precise constitutional solution, and on the other hand in Article 90, point 7 says, "The government is overseeing the work of the ministries and special organisations; it annuls or abolishes their regulations that are contrary to the law or regulation it has passed." So this is also very clear and precisely defined in Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and cannot be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and cannot by the assembly majority adopt laws, to pass laws that are contrary to the Constitution. What you're planning, possibly, in some new constitution, in which way you can regulate both this matter and the rest of social life, is something that's still just in the hint stage. That's something you promised Serbian citizens in the election campaign. You claimed that the first job you did would be to make a new constitution! Why didn't you do it? It's not the only thing where you cheated on Serbian citizens in the election campaign. The fraud has much more and much more drastic, because Serbia has a constitution, a constitution that is democratic, which recognises all human rights and freedoms. The truth is that it has some archaic parts in it, and the position of the SRS is that it can be amended as well. But we didn't have any objection to it, and we didn't have to go into the making of a new constitution. We have become involved in the work of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. Why do you from the ruling coalition and those with whom you are in cohabitation do not want a new constitution, it is clear to everyone in Serbia. You are afraid of new elections, Tadic is afraid of new elections, and you know that the new constitution would include new elections. But it doesn't give you the right, gentlemen, to suggest that because of the new constitution you can propose that you adopt even more laws, which have no basis in the existing Constitution. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have proposed that Article 3 be changed and that the amended member reads: "Controlling the work of the state administration authority is carried out by the government". This is the only constitutional and legal solution. I don't see the reason and I don't understand why Mr. Balinovac, on behalf of the Government, didn't you accept this amendment? I don't know, if you don't accept it from the coalition of the congregation majority, which is a reason you can't accept this amendment, because this amendment has not touched you in the essence of the law, we haven't touched you in the concept of the law – this is a purely technical question, and our attempt to convince you that what you propose and what you are bringing should and must be in accordance with the Constitution. Do not play to pass laws that you already know that if anyone submits a request for the assessment of constitutionality, they will get a negative assessment of the Constitutional Court, regardless of the composition of the Constitutional Court and how judges of the Constitutional Court work, they certainly would not be able to and will not be deaf. Our principled position and opinion on the draft law on state administration was under discussion. In addition to this unconstitution, our basic objection is that both this law and the other law (which you, as you like to say, packed in a package, which is the law on civil servants), although here the exact opposite of the story of the government's representative that these laws mean the depolitisation of the government's authority, we have made our point that it is not so. On the contrary, this law and this other package law introduce a party state. You are trying to strengthen your authority by putting people who are members of the coalition who are still in power after the next election, by trying to continue through them, I must say, a devastating power for the citizens of Serbia. We, the Serbian radicals, are against it, and that is why we also held a series of views in principle. That is why, through the explanation of the amendment, we will try to explain to those who will vote for this law, and to you, Mr Balinovac, to accept our amendments, especially this amendment to Article 3, which, I repeat, is the introduction of the law into constitutional and legal frameworks. You have no valid explanation, which is why you will eventually not adopt this member unless it is an explanation that no one here will clearly and publicly say – that it is only because the proposal came from the SRS. I must also warn you that serious political parties in modern democracies and how they take care of the opinion and the position of Serbia's largest and strongest political parties. And I strongly recommend that to you. Of course, after the next election, we will correct all your screw-ups, but I wonder – what a reflection of the lives of citizens will be on this and all other laws that do not go in any segment to ensure that life in Serbia is reduced to some normal frameworks, that you do not make laws whose citizens would live better by applying them. You have some of your fixed ideas, you meet someone's demands, you don't know why, you do more than you're asked to do, and it's already seen in these areas. But once again, I call upon you, you who swore to legalism, to try to be legalists, not only in the story, but also in action, and to accept this amendment, so that your law will be established within the framework of the existing Constitution. About the amendment so much, and I'm asking the chairman, since we had a group of people at the gallery earlier, I don't know who it was, and it would have been nice, Mr. Chairman, but it's also an obligation for you to tell the MPs who these people who wanted to see us and hear us and welcome them, not to have the privilege of just two MPs who, I see, went upstairs to say hello to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19019	Thank you. It's a delegation from Israel, which was with the president. Mrs. Radeta, the delegations are really changing, we can't just say hello, we have to do our job. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19020	I will make sure that during this short period, which remains for this amendment, I express my surprise that the government has not accepted this amendment. Our amendment is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To remind those who rarely hold the Constitution in their hands, that in Article 90, paragraph 7, where the government's jurisdiction is stated, "she is overseeing the work of the ministries and special organisations; she annuls or abolishes their regulations which are contrary to the law or regulation she has passed". There is no possibility that the supervision of the work of the authority of the administration (and I will explain to one of the following amendments what the greatest lack of this bill is being seen, because there is no difference in what the authorities of the state administration are in its own sense, and there is also no respect for the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so we have come to a kind of mix) – but what is important for this amendment is that the court does not monitor but examines the legality of individual administrative acts in the administrative dispute. This is a dispute on the legality of an individual administrative act. That's what he's called, and he can't have the administrative court, as you call him here, or the court in charge of acting in a administrative dispute to supervise. Oversight is a completely different concept, he implies that a supervised person can in some way influence an individual administrative act, but the court does not exercise control. He's doing legal control. Exceptionally, there may be a solution in the meter in the administrative dispute, but the rule is that it cancels or abolishs. Only if the first-degree and second-degree administrative authorities are persistent, as is the case with the famous jeep, where three times the MUP does not respect the Supreme Court's decision and does not return the jeep, well, then the Supreme Suspenses himself to solve the administrative matter. But even when he solves the administrative thing, he doesn't do it under the right supervision. I would just like to remind you that there are provisions in the General Administrative Procedure Act that a second-degree body may, on the basis of official supervision, repeal or amend a first-degree administrative act, in particular a final administrative act. And, if it is inserted in the provision of Article 3. – that the supervision of the work of the government authority is carried out by the administrative court, then it is contrary to the Constitution, because the Constitution says that courts only exercise control over the legality of individual administrative acts, final administrative acts. This is how you overstepped, proposing Article 3, that authority. The National Assembly can't regulate this matter in this way, because we know exactly what surveillance is. The constitution says the supervision of the work of ministries and special organisations is carried out by the government of the Republic of Serbia. She's the only one doing that surveillance. You put in here even, and – The National Assembly controls, but not directly but indirectly, indirectly. It can't stand. He can't stand. Well, of course, if a debate is launched in the National Assembly on the business of the Customs Administration, and it is part of the Ministry of Finance, which is why it is "glazed", politically responsible as finance minister, it is not supervision, it is control. The legislative authority controls the executive power. So this is where you confused the terms and I warn you - accept this amendment, because nothing harms you. He's in the spirit of the concept that you represent.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19021	Thank you. The word has been given by the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, Mr Balinovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19022	We are carefully reading the amendments of all MPs, including amendments from the Serbian Radical Party, and several amendments to this party have been adopted. Well, it looks like it's primarily a termological issue, but then. But when you analyse the whole of the constitutional provisions, therefore, not just one provision that is now being discussed, it provides for three forms and I will now use the word – control over the authorities of the state administration. The first is a direct, direct, legal form by the government. The government directs, the government synchronises the work of the government's authorities, the government gives them orders, can order them to do this or that job, of course, within the limits of the law. And it's undeniable. It also says in the Constitution, it also reads in the position of Article 3, which is subject to the amendment. The second form of control, the work of the authorities of the state administration, is carried out by the National Assembly. Simply so, and this is what MP Krasic said nicely about controlling the work of members of the government. You have one very simple setting. The most important organ of the state administration is the ministry. If you oversee, as the National Assembly, the work of the minister directly oversees the work of the ministry, as the authorities of the state administration to which the minister is headed. So, this form of supervision is political because the minister, because the authority he runs, that is, the state administration, that is, the ministry does not work well, can only be resolved. And it's a political form of responsibility. It will be resolved when there is a majority in the Assembly and hence it is called a political form of responsibility, because it simply depends on the relationship of forces in the Assembly, not on some pre-arranged legal rules. Finally, the Serbian Constitution in Article 124 says that, on the legality of final and individual acts, the state authorities, and the authorities of the state administration, are state authorities, resolve rights, obligations, that is, the court in the administrative dispute. We are now talking about a third type of supervision which in the legal theory is completely clear and unequivocally precise, such as judicial oversight or judicial control of the work of the administration. The court oversees the legality of administrative acts through an institution of administrative dispute. Whether we will use the Serbian word - supervision, or side - control, is the issue of the convention. We have studied legal literature and found that most administrative-law theorists believe that there is no difference between supervision and control. When you say control, you say surveillance. When you say surveillance, you said control. In that opinion is also Professor Laza Kostic, our distinguished professor between the two world wars, who called the whole other book – Control of the State Administration, including in this surveillance and what is called judicial oversight. So I wouldn't be going out for a pay phone if it wasn't for the fact that the provision was unconstitutional. The provision is not unconstitutional. It synthetically, simply, in one general norm, in the opening section explains and prescribes all types of supervision, which is possible under the Constitution over the authorities of the state administration. Thank you. [[Employer Krasic, from the place: Can I have a replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19023	Anyone else want a word? You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Crassy. You have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19024	I know, but the chairman, it's not about the right or the wrong interpretation of the synonyms, as my predecessor tried to introduce us. Please, surveillance is something that comes from administrative authority. Excuse me, the National Assembly has no administrative authority. The National Assembly does not oversee the government's work, but controls the government's work. A large number of institutes exist in our Constitution and Rules of Procedure, starting with a parliamentary issue, an interpretation, a motion to vote for mistrust to the government or a single member of the government. But it's not surveillance. This is the control that the legislative authority is carrying out over the executive authority. It is impossible for a control procedure that is always political, when the legislative authority controls the executive, to always be politically controlled. And this surveillance system is dangerous. You're trying to convince us that we're in charge of some ministry's work. That's not true. It's the only authority of the government. I read the government's provisions a little while ago, where they are said to be "supervising the work of the ministries". Furthermore, there is authority. I'll talk about it later. The principles of the interior organisation of the ministries are adopted by the government. Right? The organisation of ministries is determined by law, number of ministries etc. It's not in the system of state authorities, so-called. The authorities of the state administration have a few degrees. We have the first degree where the ministry is. I have to tell you that as a first degree for some time, the government does, too, because it enforces the laws in a different way than the ministries do. Secondly, the fundamental error in this concept, which you are promoting, is that you deny the principle of division of power. The characteristics of the principle divide the authorities that every branch of government within the framework of the Constitution and the law is acting, and you are extending our supervision here, so the legislative authority oversees the work of not only the Government, not just the ministry, but can continue to go on. How, if not directly, then indirectly. It's impossible, it's forbidden. You would now say by that logic, we are overseeing the work of the courts. How can we monitor the courts? We can't monitor the work of the courts. We can agree or disagree with some decisions, but we have to respect them. Each branch of the government is supplied with certain instruments that guarantee that decisions are implemented, if not soapy, then by force. How do you think we monitor the work of the ministry or oversee some administrative organizations, can we bring a mandatory instruction here for them? What's our instrument to make them do it? We don't have it. The very instrument is our political responsibility to the government or members of the government. So it's not the synonyms, it's the fundamental problem. So I suggest you adopt this amendment that is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just afraid that with these termological equiversisms, we're coming into a completely irregular situation. How can the court oversee the work of the government's authority? Only through the control of the legality of individual administrative acts. The Constitutional Court is also doing something there, but it assesses the constitutionality and legality of the general acts brought by the authorities of the state administration. It's not surveillance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19025	Mr Balinovac, Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19026	I've been pretty clear. The point of view is legal oversight. Article 2 is a political form of supervision. It's about judicial oversight in Section 3. It's something else, actually. First, the words "supervisory" are given meaning that is not appropriate, and then the opponents of this member turn to that member on the basis of the meaning of the word "supervisory", which they themselves gave. Neither "supervisory" is an only administrative term, nor is there exclusively "administrative control". "Control" is a general term and it has meaning which, in concrete law, comes from the content of that law. The thing is, they're "supervisory" given the wrong meaning, so on the basis of that misrepresentation, the notion of "supervisory" began to be criticised by Article 3. So, the member is up. He synthetically describes all forms, we can say, control the work of the authorities of the state administration, which in theory and in laws are indisputable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19027	Hala. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19028	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that Miss Natasa Jovanovic, the SRS MP, is not present today to defend her amendment. It currently defends the interests of Kragujevac citizens against the heavy abuse and usurpation that is being prepared there at the Kragujevac city level, so I will try and hope to defend Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's amendment. Ms. Natasa Jovanovic has submitted an amendment to Article 8. where it is said: "The authorities of the state administration are acting according to the rules of the profession, impartially and politically neutrally and are obliged to give everyone equal legal protection in the exercise of rights, obligations and legal interests." National MP Natasa Jovanovic asked that the 8th word "action" be replaced by the words "they are obliged to act in accordance with the law". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we look at Article 5 of this Decision, then we read what it says in Article 5, where it is said to be binding on the state, where it says that, for the damage caused by its illegal and irregular work by the authorities of the state administration, the state of Serbia is responsible for the physical and legal persons. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs have been irregularly and illegally introducing an emergency in the entire territory of the Serbian state, and the state of Serbia has arrested about 13,000 people. Of this, 400 were processed, more than 12,500 remained unprocessed and will never be processed, as there are no basic elements either to initiate the procedure, let alone to conduct and release these people. These processes will slow down until they become obsolete. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the state of Serbia is also bound by this law, and also by that law, which before this law regulated the relations between the state administration and the Constitution, in the extreme line, to make damage to natural and legal persons, so that Serbian citizens are compensated, in order to avoid coming into the situation in the future that... yet some officials, who are not up to the function they perform, although I hope that after these parliamentary elections, which are already felt in the air, will come to the shift of power and that the helm will be taken over by the SRS and then we will not be setting up officials who are immature, but experts, high moral, high-quality people on such functions. We ask that Article 8 instead of "proceeding" should say: "they are obliged to act in accordance with the law". I think Mr. Balinovac will accept this amendment. The explanation why the amendment was not accepted wasn't written and probably didn't even look at it. It says, "Amendment is not accepted. Unequivocally, as the first and oldest principle in the work of the State Administration Authority, the bill prescribes the principle of legality in the work of the State Administration Authority, according to which the authorities of the State Administration... they work in the framework and based on the Constitution, the Jackon, etc. It doesn't say they owe them. I think that one word that obliges all future officials, that they are obliged to act in accordance with the law, is not a waste and that this amendment should be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19029	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19030	The amendment refers to one of the members of the basic principles, which states "actions" related to the work of the state administration authorities. However, at this moment, when we are at the beginning of this law, I would like to try to clarify the basic lack of this bill. It is also contained in Article 4 and is transmitted in Article 5 and is later passed through all members of this bill. In order for the representatives of the Government and the MPs who belong to this profession to understand me a little bit better and to understand the essence of all the amendments of the SRS, I must state that in Article 90(5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the powers of the Government are prescribed, the Government lays down principles for the internal organisation of ministries, other administration bodies and special organisations. As part of this, it sets up and resolves officials, etc. and only the ministries and special organizations are listed. I'd like to appeal to Article 94. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where it is said the affairs of the state administration are carried out by ministries. The ministries apply laws and general acts. The ministries are independent in the exercise of the Constitution and the law of certain competences. The principle of power-sharing and independence and independence of state authorities is being promoted. In order to carry out certain tasks of the state administration, the authorities of the administration shall be educated in the form of ministries, and special organisations shall be educated to carry out professional activities. This story is interesting because we have basically three types, three ways to define the authorities of the state administration. They are clearly defined as: the ministries, then they can be special authorities, as indicated here, and they can be administrations within the ministry. This – within the ministry should be accepted conditionally, because there are some massive ministries where it is impossible to carry out such centralised that there is only a ministry, there is already a need to distinguish certain things. When it is taken, it adds, that there is a possibility that the state, in the image of the National Assembly, will entrust public authority to a public enterprise, I will take one of these examples, it is "Electroprivedness", it is "Post", it is state affairs, but they are trusted because some services are a business activity and are entrusted to a public enterprise. The procedure in which they work is to resolve the rights and obligations of a man, administrative and then exercise the public authority that the state has given them. It happened to us that this definition for some public enterprises cannot apply, and you listed it all in article 4 and you generically called it – the owners of public authority. You've mixed all this up, the classic authorities of the state administration, the administration, the special organization, the administration within the ministry, public enterprises and other organisations that have transferred public powers to public authorities. That's how it looks for you, the city of Belgrade has institutions, public agencies and other organisations that can be transferred to certain businesses. You define them as the authorities of the administration, the authorities of the state administration and public authorities, some of whom are entrusted to certain jobs that are originally state-owned. What happened in the meantime? Until a few years ago, if you want to start a subscriber relationship for a phone, let's say, the phone is being run as a status issue for an individual, and in the meantime, a lot of things have changed, and it's become a pure property law, which is no longer a administrative thing. It's similar to "Ectrossion", the basis for it to be a status matter of the family is lost. Now you have a situation where a man can move his phone even though he sold his apartment. Why? Because the status issue was about the individual and there was a administrative matter at some point in the socialist self-government society, when the phone was a luxury and only the committee chiefs could have the secretaries, and then it could spread and expand. Now there's been a change, it's no longer a administrative matter. It used to be, and now it's just a property thing. You didn't notice that change. It's the same for you when you start a subscription relationship for electricity, not to mention other public enterprises, where public authority is entrusted to a public company. You basically put it in the same basket, and it can't be in the same basket. That's why you're seeing something that's, uh, Article 5's item 2. – public authorities themselves are responsible for the damages etc. Please, they're doing a trusted job, formally-legal, they don't have their own resources. Once upon a time, the state introduced phones. The state once built roads, had no road management, but the ministry directly implemented investments, etc. It's changed, and you haven't noticed that change, and that's the problem. Of course, these principles you have tried, one of these principles, is, the legality is mentioned in Article 7, but what the specific amendment refers to, expertise, impartiality and political neutrality, I do not know what political neutrality means to you – wherever any law is passed, in any area, politicians, members of political parties are expelled, expelled, because the law suspects that they are immoral. If that's how you do it, then the most immoral people run the state. So, the citizens' election offers the most immoral people. Who admits that? Legislative authorities, the National Assembly admits that immoral people are in this room. Why would someone, if a party member was immoral? Why would she commit someone to a party, not a law or a regulation? I'm glad to hear that the DA is officially running some proceedings based on what he read in the paper. I wish they'd turned on earlier. The government's authority is bound by law. A constitutional standard – everyone is obliged to uphold the law. It can't be guessed. If you're already making some distinction, then you should've put this in, to step up at the very least. All citizens are equal before the law. If you list all of this as constitutional norm, then why not list what the amendment requires. It's totally in agreement with all of these points, which you cited later and all of the terms. This is where you go by some system. I think the basic problem with this law is that it doesn't make a difference. The authorities of the state administration are the ministries. The administration within the ministry is something that belongs organisationally, but is not an independent body of the state administration. A special organisation cannot be placed in the same basket as the ministry, and those entrusted with business, the city of Belgrade, local self-government, etc. It's level three, third special status. And the fourth status, are public enterprises and other institutions entrusted with the exercise of certain public powers. This is related to some business activity or some service, with special organisations, extremely professional affairs, and that is what some have tried to baptize agencies, because they are primarily professional affairs, where there is no formal administrative act with some binding power, but professional jobs for the ministries. I'm afraid it didn't come to an end here what state administration is, what the authorities of the government are, but it's all mixed up and it's all come into some identical position. I have to tell you that there's no obstacle to a single administrative organization being a first-degree body and a second-degree body being a ministry. The Constitution does not forbid it. This is why you will have a situation in different ways to interpret the administrative procedure from the organs to the organs. Now, in the organisation of the ministries, you have administrations that are part of the ministry and you have some bodies that are not within the ministry, and it is not as a criterion that professional jobs are taken into account for the needs of the ministry and for the needs of the state. What I'm saying is that there's a principle problem in this law, a principle that needs to be drawn to all points. I'm not going into the other thing, it'll be later when the administrative districts are talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19031	Mr Balinovac, Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19032	Only briefly on Article 8 on which the amendment was submitted. There would be no problem with the amendment being adopted, assuming there is no Article 7. Article 7 regulates the principles of the functioning or work of the government authority, stipulates that they are independent and, as an important principle, prescribes the principle of legality and says: "The authorities of the state administration are independent in doing their jobs and work within the framework and on the basis of the Constitution, the law, other regulations and general acts". In the end, the principle of legality doesn't take much to discuss. The principle of legality arose the moment the administration became bound by the laws and represented a breakup with the police state, when the administration could act the way it, past the law and without law, interpreted so-called. It's a state reason. There was a speaker before me rightly mentioned as an example of the police state what was going on at the time of the emergency. Article 8 alone complements a strict obligation to apply the law, saying that the authorities of the state administration are also obliged to comply with the rules of the profession. A lawyer to act as a lawyer, an engineer as an engineer, not to betray the rules of the profession, therefore, to act on the legions of artis. It's not enough to follow the law. Sometimes, by acting by law and ignoring the rules of the profession, you can damage the party, impartially and politically neutrally. So the authorities of the state administration are obliged to treat citizens politically neutrally. Therefore, discrimination against citizens is prohibited in view of their political ownership. The government's authority must be cold, it must be impersonal and see to the citizen who has come to exercise his rights, not a member of this party or that party. So it's about something else than what's been objected to. In the end, it's about trusting the state administration's affairs. Business administrations are different, but they are made by two types of entities. One subject is the state, which is a set of state system and state apparatus. These are the authorities of the state administration. Under the law, these are ministries, special organisations and administration bodies in the form of ministries. We have placed these bodies in the authorities of the state administration, because that is how Article 94 places them. The Constitution of Serbia. Other authorities that can handle the affairs of the state administration, along with state authorities, are municipalities, cities, autonomous province, public enterprises, institutions and other organisations, provided that some of these businesses are entrusted with them by law. It's simple, the state administration's work is done by a government apparatus. It's the original jurisdiction of the state. Only the state has that monopoly. If the state wants, as Mr Krasic said, that PTT or any other public enterprise is doing some work of the state administration, if it wants to transfer this business to an non-state entity, because the public enterprise is not a state body, then it must do so in the form of law and then transfer to them one or more public powers, that they carry them along with their basic activity. Therefore, the tasks of the state administration are carried out by two types of bodies: state entities and non-state entities. The system of state administration authorities, therefore, state entities doing the tasks of the state administration are ministries, administration bodies and special organisations. There is no confusion, nor can it be, since Article 1 explicitly tells what the authorities of the state administration, what the state authorities of the administration are, and Article 4 speaks of the possibility of being entrusted to the work of state administration to non-state entities, state administration entities located outside the system of state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19033	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) To the title above Article 11 and Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19034	On behalf of the DS Parliamentary Group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11, namely to the title above Articles 11 and 2. I suggested that the title above article 11 be - "The public of work and free access to information", because the title offered is only "The public of work". I have proposed a change in the second attitude, which reads: "The public administration's officials are obliged to give public insight into their work, according to a law governing free access to information of public importance". I suggested that this position is as follows: "The authorities of the state administration are obliged, in accordance with the law governing free access to information of public importance, each, especially to citizens, legal persons and means of public information, to enable and provide the right to free access to information contained in their possession." The reason for this attitude lies in the fact that the public work of the authorities and other authorities is today the essential mark of the modern rule of law. The public works is one of the principles in the work of the state administration, and free access to information enters the order of basic human rights and freedoms, among other things, it is defined in Article 29. The Charter of Human and Minority Rights, which requires that the rubrum above Article 11 which today reads itself – "The public of labour", actually bears the title – "The public of labour and free access to information". As Article 11 is now defined in its position 2, I think it is incomplete and insufficient, precisely because the Law on free access to information of public importance does not regulate the work of the public administration authority, but rather the exercise of the right to free access to information that includes: the right of the applicant to be told whether the public authority has certain information, or whether it is available to him; the right of the applicant to make public information available to him by giving him an insight into the document containing the requested information; the right of the applicant to receive a copy of the document containing the requested information; finally, the right of the applicant to copy the document, with the payment of compensation, to the address, fax, by electronic means or otherwise. Therefore, Article 11(2) misjudged the term "inspection of its work", as insight into the work of the administration's authority implies direct introduction of citizens to the work of a certain body of the state administration, not access to the information contained in its possession. That is precisely why I felt that Article 11(2) should be replaced by the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19035	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 11a be added after article 11. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mrs. Ruzdić-Trifunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19036	As soon as I heard - MP, I knew the chairman had switched, so I welcome the president. On behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment after article 11 to change the title above article 12, i.e. the whole head, the introduction of a new Article 11a. The title is: "Employments of the State Administration – Participation in the Design of Government Policy". I suggested that article 11a be introduced before this subtitle, maybe that's the title, and that the affairs of the state administration be taxed. It seems to me that in Chapter III – State administration affairs, there is a lack of a general member who would, in the light of the principles that are later discussed through the proposal, determines what the affairs of the state administration are. It is precisely this provision that clearly points to the transition from the current system of state administration, as authorities, to management, as a public service. This requires the existence of a special member relating to the affairs of the state administration. I have therefore proposed an amendment to which this chapter would begin – a new member, which reads: "The affairs of the State are: 1) participation in the design of government policy; 2) monitoring the situation in the areas of their work; 3) enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts; 4) drawing up draft laws and other regulations and general acts which the Government proposes and adopts; 5) custody of law enforcement, other regulations and general acts; 6) decision-making on administrative matters, keeping official records, carrying out inspections; 7) custody of public services; 8) development affairs; 9) carrying out professional and other tasks laid down by law. "I think that such a number of jobs, defined by the affairs of the state administration, as a special member, would be necessary to be the content of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19037	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Thank you for the 12th amendment by Ambassador Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the 14th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Krstin and Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go. At the same time, I personally give an apology to all MPs because I did not draw the attention of the chairman, Mr Mihailovic, of the many advantages brought by the Rules of Procedure, we now have the opportunity to form friendship groups. Today, the first such group was in the guests, as a form of co-operation between the Serbian Parliament and the Israeli Parliament. Members of the Israeli Knesset were present on the balcony. Of course, if they had been distracted, I believe they would have been welcomed. Once again, I apologize to both you and them. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19038	If there had been a different legal and technical arrangement and grouping of state administration affairs, we probably wouldn't have submitted this amendment. The point of this amendment is that Article 14 in the context of the enforcement of laws, regulations and general acts, and it is stated that the authorities of the state administration are law enforcement, other regulations and general acts of the National Assembly and Government by adopting regulations, resolving administrative matters, keeping records, issuing public documents and taking administrative action (so-called ‘Governmental Regulation’). Executive jobs), this is a common name for all jobs – we asked for a supplement to be carried out in attitude 1 and for the words "things" to be added to the words "execution control", because we started from here to list all the jobs where the authorities of the state administration act in accordance with the law or under the law, where they enforce the laws. Probably that group of jobs also includes law-based inspection, if I can simplify it that way. This amendment is not accepted because the government considers it a special chapter – "Inspection Control", isolated. It does not involve law enforcement, but it is some sui generis business that is also being carried out on the basis of specific rules on inspection supervision. I think they called for article 18. The bill when they refused this amendment, so they gave all sorts of reasons. However, I would draw attention to Article 30, where you have defined the type of body within the body of the state administration, primarily to the Ministry, that these are administrations, inspectorates and directorates. You said that administrations are characterized by education for executives and related inspection and professional tasks; for inspectorates – for inspection and related professional affairs; management for professional and related executive tasks. It is evident that there is a kind of overlap between inspection and execution, as you have defined. I don't think anything is lost by adopting this amendment. I may, in some ways, understand the reasons that you have stated in your opinion, but that would be your opinion if, for example, you would, before a member of the 12th general member, define a group of jobs, and then you would discuss them in certain points and in certain chapters. This was not done so, but immediately started in the participation and development of government policy; under 2) monitoring the situation; 3) law enforcement. That's what you've done. Maybe if different systems were applied, you'd probably see that inspection work is actually law enforcement. It's all based on law enforcement. The authorities of the state administration are, above all, bound by law, if I may say, the most connected body of law is the authorities of the state administration. From this principle come everyone else; everyone else is practically working on this basic principle; legalism is the basic principle of the work of all state authorities. From it comes equality, equality, and everything else. By adopting this amendment, nothing is lost, only the executive function is strengthened, the executive jobs. But believe me, inspection supervision is a law enforcement business, because we can't share the law's enforcement of material regulations, the enforcement of procedural, and inspections. The law is the law. You're absolutely right about that. You have defined some things concerning local self-management, regardless of what they do there in their own jurisdiction, they apply the general administrative procedure and apply this law to them. It's perfectly normal. Those who attack you for that are wrong. The part of the procedure in local self-management where citizens' rights and obligations under municipal rules, which are originally municipal, are resolved under the original jurisdiction, is again administrative. It can be shortened, like this or something, but it's basically administrative. A different procedure does not exist and cannot exist in local self-management, especially when local self-government is responsible for entrusted tasks that the Republic has passed on to them by law. I believe that the affairs of inspection supervision are also the affairs of law enforcement, because law enforcement should not be tied to the division of laws. The law is the law. You see for yourself, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not share the laws, they are all in the same rank. We in the jargon know it's basic, basic, because it's based on some other laws. While the Constitution of the SRJ was then we had laws on the foundations of a system from which the obligation of the Republic to regulate certain things closer, but this system was abandoned, this system no longer exists – now there is full jurisdiction of the National Assembly, where it is not good to divide the laws. If your opinion is accepted then the inspection is carried out under the law and is not an executive function. It's an executive business. All the government does is do executive work. All the departments do is do executive work, do law enforcement, and even when it does some analysis, it draws on the basis of some legal authority, and that's all law enforcement. By adopting the amendment, nothing is lost in the concept of this law, but only to specify certain things.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19039	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19040	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19041	Thank you. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 25th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mrs. Veronica Radeta. I also inform you that according to the Rules of Procedure, today we will be working, as you assumed yesterday, by the end of the debate in the details of the item on the agenda before 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19042	Article 25. The draft law on state administration seems to me to be the essence and complete opposite of what the motionary's representative here assured us of. What is in this Article 25 is being carried out through several other members and is proof of what we have also claimed in the principle debate, which is that there is no speech about depolitisation of state authorities, but rather that this law wants to strengthen the party state. In Article 25, you say the ministry has ministerial assistants, who answer to the minister for their work. In the second position, you say the assistant minister is in charge of the circled area of work of the ministry for which the sector is being educated. In the third position, which is problematic, you say the deputy minister has been appointed by the government for five years, on a proposal from the minister, under a law governing the position of civil servants. counterpart Natasa Jovanovic's amendment reads that instead of saying "five years", the words "four years" and that it is deleted "under the law governing the position of civil servants". Why? Because it's unacceptable for the government to suggest something that harmonizes with a law that doesn't exist. The law governing the position of civil servants is the law we discussed in the principle debate, we are not yet in particular, and I do not think anyone knows and can claim that this law will be adopted, that it will come into force, in particular that it will be adopted in the text in which it is given to the MPs. This really is the highlight of the government's insecureness as a proposing. Em, unconstitutionally, I'm illegal, no legal or constitutional frameworks mean anything to you, you don't need them, because you're writing about how you think. I will remind you that in the previous government, in the government of Zoran Djindjic, when Gašo Knezevic was a minister, and in 2001 he talked about the Law on Higher Education, and at the time Vojislav Seselj was forced from the Faculty of Law, he claimed that he was doing so under a law that was not passed in the Assembly, did not come into force, but, behold, he applies it because it is good. And this is really just like it – that you think that this law on civil servants is good and that you tell us in the Bill on State Administration, that you will do something according to the law governing the position of civil servants. So this can't, legally can't, and I'm surprised that the Legislative Committee said that this is legally possible, because this isn't legally possible. You could've brought it without this "law," so when you adopted this other one to go with the changes. You have to stick to some basic legal principles that really no serious lawyer can't see. You suggested that the assistant minister be appointed by the government for a period of five years. We think it's unacceptable and it should be a four-year period. (Zoran Krasic, from the place: We can go to eight. Better at eight, of course. Why didn't the government accept this amendment? There's a very long explanation and I'm going to read some parts of that argument so I can comment, "Depolitisation of the State Administration has been established," whether it was founded or founded, I don't know exactly, "condition for the development of the modern administration. It involves the professionalization of the state administration and the clear separation of political officials from the so-called so-called. administrative executives and other civil servants." These are stories for little children. You will now convince someone in Serbia that the minister for his assistant will appoint someone if he is not a member, or activist of his party or party that is currently in the coalition. In your case, in the case of the current government, even an assistant minister cannot be from some of the coalition parties, but exclusively from a party whose member and minister is. You have a specific party ministry, then a multiparty government. But even if it wasn't, I don't know if anyone would dare say it here in public and say that some minister is going to set up his assistant someone who isn't, although it's impossible to do a job because every government has its own concept. The government's concept stems from a party programme or from some common minimum of the party's programme, if it comes to the coalition government. Those who represent the government, who are doing management work, must stick to that coalition, or that programme, or possibly a coalition programme. State officials lower than the assistant minister, of course, that they don't have a time limit to be employed. They should be employed indefinitely. They can leave work only if they want to or because of some disciplinary responsibility. It must not happen, of course, that these officials have problems after some elections, that someone is experiencing, as the DOS did in 2000, when people who are inexperienced with DOS policy were fired are inadmissible. We hope that this will never happen again in Serbia. In point 2, you say, "The important (but not only) element of depolitisation of the state administration is to appoint civil servants for five years, so on time that is longer than the government's mandate." I'm asking you, why isn't that for six years? Zoran Krasic just dropped – for eight years. Why is depolitisation a ministerial assistant – for five years? You say it's one of the terms, five years. Besides, will someone here be reasonable and reasonable to explain to us why it's five years, why it's not six, seven, why it's not 12 years, so a few governments can wash it out?- I'm sorry. So our proposal is to replace this number "five years", "four years" and that's the only right and only thing that can really be applied. What you're alleging is inapplicable. Your attempt to maintain the power of the current coalition through this law after the elections and after the loss of power is something that will not pass. It's your only and obvious intention. In this explanation, you are also saying, "As the working-law status of political officials depends on election results and is related to the political fate of the government, civil servants are guaranteed a permanent working relationship independent of political changes, which is a condition of the continuity of the work of the state administration." Are you saying that even the current appointments depend on the election results? I'm saying they don't depend. Which is the election result that says that someone who has 53 MPs has more influence than someone who has 82 MPs. Of course, even now what you've done, without this law, has nothing to do with the election will of citizens and you know it, and we've talked about it more than once. Further, you say, "If the highest civil servants were set in time equal to the government's mandate," listen now -- "they could succumb to political pressures, bind their fate to the fate of the government and thereby violate their political neutrality". So, you're trying to keep that assistant minister, and I'm deliberately saying "helper minister," because when you say "state official," then someone who's following our work thinks that we want to create uncertainty for every official in the government. Of course we don't want to. This applies to the officials. The assistant minister is a clerk, no matter what you say. The assistant minister is tied to the government's policy, or minister, whose staff he's employed in, and you say you want the assistant minister not to bind his destiny to the government in this way and thereby violates his political neutrality. But you're forcing him to be tied to that government that will come after some next election. So, he's been working on the orders of one government for four years, but he's already preparing himself, feeling what's going on in political life, which party could be ruling after the next election and he's subject to the influence of the government, the future government while it's under the authority of this government. So this is an inconclusive and inconclusive explanation. I don't think anyone normal could believe this. I suggest you adopt this amendment. To adopt other amendments to the same essence, namely to carry out a legal-technical order, which would be mandatory if this amendment were accepted, because what you are proposing is illegal, politically wrong. Your attempt, I repeat, to stay and after the election is no good! You won't succeed, and don't get caught up in the awkward situation of those civil servants, as you call them here, and I say – mostly, ministerial assistants! Don't let your assistant scare you between you and me now, because you're the government, and me and my party will be after the next election. Now, that woman, she doesn't know whether to nod her head when I'm talking, because she's thinking about what's gonna happen in three months, after the election, or whether it's because you're looking at her who her life depends on right now. It's not nice, don't!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19043	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19044	Thank you, Mr. President. I have answered my question to answer this amendment for two reasons, because it is affecting the essential issues of the Law on Civil Servants and the Law on State Administration. That's the first one. Secondly, behind this amendment follows a whole series of amendments based on the same principles, as the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radet has brought before us here. I'll be very clear. Under the functions we can consider to be political, we mean those who are named primarily or exclusively according to political criteria, who when they perform their functions are managed by political criteria and who end their function the moment that the policy that has brought them into office ceases to be current. So these are the ones who come to a position with the election of a new government, who are implementing the new government's policy and who are leaving with the government when it has already lost its mandate. They are political officials, and they are, according to these laws, exclusively ministers and state secretaries. Hence, they tie their working-law fate to the political fate of the government. Whether it will operate for a year, two or three simply depends on the government's mandate. Administrative officials or as the civil servants are called here are something else entirely. First of all, the way they get into position. They do not come from the personnel party lists, but from an internal or public competition, which is conducted by a competition commission under clear rules. So here come those who pass the expert criteria and the expert criteria. The second criterion is, the criteria of their responsibility during their duties in place, that they correspond both discipline and labour law and in any other way, but do not respond politically. If the State Secretary, who is a political official, does not implement the ministry's policy or government will be removed. But the assistant minister, since he is not a political figure, is responsible only for the professionality and discipline of his work. The third criterion for which they are not political officials is how they end their position. The rules are clearly laid down and the situation does not stop because of the principle of political responsibility. What are they set up for for five years? Five years is one standard, which is long enough to prevent the connection of the government's assistant to the government, and short enough to prevent its binding to the new government, which comes after the one who set it up. These are the principles that always make it possible for all European parallel legislation to go to five years. If, as suggested by this amendment, the assistant minister were appointed for four years, it would practically mean that he is a political official. All right, then we know that the essence of this amendment is to oppose the depoliticalization of the state administration. I explained what depoliticization is about. I explained the difference between political and administrative officials and simply, the government is convinced that they should go through those times when someone just thanks to the political resemblance came to high positions. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19045	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I expected Mr. Balinovac to stay and listen to the explanation to accept the amendment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 26 in which I ask that the words "can" be deleted and that in the third position the words "five years" are replaced by the words "four years", and after the words "minister" the point and the rest of the text is deleted. To make it clear to you, I will read the entire article: "The ministry may have a secretary of the ministry, who is responsible for his work for the minister. The ministry's secretary assists the minister in managing staff, financial, information and other issues and in harmonising the work of the interior units of the ministry and co-operates with other bodies." And a third position: "The secretary of the ministry sets the government for five years, on a proposal from the minister, according to a law that determines the position of civil servants." I ask that after "five years" be put to the point and that this "on a proposal from the minister, according to the law" etc. deletes; and this is worse -- "the ministry can have a secretary", not "can have a secretary". The reason for erasing this part in the 3rd position is very simple – it felt the power to accept the elections. The election cycle lasts four years. She felt the power that many would then have to pack their suitcases and leave, felt the power to lose absolute influence on the future government and, behold, wonders came to their senses and suggested that the secretary of the ministry be deployed for five years. He's a civil servant, he'll just work, and what political membership do they have in the ministry now? Unless you expect that secretary in the ministry to change political membership, so he stops being yellow, suddenly the blue color shines on him, stop being a representative of one of your coalition parties and suddenly likes the SRS. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in America, when the president changes, the entire administration changes, 20,000 leave work. When you came to power in 2000, gentlemen of the DOS, shortened or extended or whatever the DOS is, you cleaned up all the way to the ministry cleaner, from the government, from public enterprises. People who worked as the lowest clerks in these companies had to pick up the pinkles and leave. You've got 'em on the desk. You don't expect your barricades, the bulldozer of the SRS revolution to hold off the next day when they take the helm after these next parliamentary elections. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't play country, don't play country leader. You adopt this amendment, let these secretaries last as long as it lasts for the government, so if you stay, and that's a little harder, it's already from science fiction, if by any chance you would ever win power again, bring them back. The people, the citizens of Serbia, the state of Serbia, all those who think and breathe are both DOS and all who have led this policy so far. The people have nothing to eat, your fault.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19047	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19048	I hope you don't mind that I'm going to expand this subject a little bit and include a few previous members, because it's practically a principle. I have to let you know that, say, 15 years ago, the situation with the faces was different. But based on this Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and on the Law on State Administration, which regulated the status of civil servants, and I think you made a mistake in sharing this, because this law complements the matter of jurisdiction. You'll agree with that, and that personal, real, etc. It's not good that you separated this. Now you're referring to some other law. Then someone rightly says, and what if that other law isn't passed, then it's impossible for this to end, or what if the other law regulates it, so the amendments make it to the conflict provisions? To go back to the short story, how it used to be. Using the authority that exists in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 90, paragraph 5, that is, the third says, "The government sets up and resolves officials in ministries and special organisations." Of course, there is an appropriate provision in the Constitution that says that status is regulated by the Republic law, so of course this provision should be interpreted in accordance with that law. The government's electoral and authoritative right is to appoint and resolve. If you have appointed an official, not counting the minister, but what is below in the hierarchy, set up and determined that his mandate lasts so long and so long, in the event of a change in the government's composition, the government is authorized to resolve that function, no matter how elected he is. He'll always find a reason to solve it. Why do I remind you of this? We are earlier, and probably now in the existing Law, which is in force, a provision that, when translated into plain language, reads – when the government is formed, it sets up assistant ministers, deputies, assistants, secretaries (if the ministry has a secretary), it is four years. When the term of office expires or the government changes, those persons are resolved. Sometimes they're resolved by law enforcement, by the end of the term of office, and what their status is, that's what's interesting. If the person comes to the post of assistant minister from the ministry, he ends his working relationship with the ministry. He's got six months at his disposal until he finds a job. If he came on the side, so he wasn't employed by the ministry, he wasn't originally a government worker, he's back on his job. If someone has been appointed a ministerial assistant from the ministry's ranks, the very fact that he was a ministerial assistant in one period, when his term of office expires, his employment relationship with the ministry ends. (From the scene, Velimir Simonovic: It is not true! ) You know what, Professor, I'm glad someone's throwing it at me, but I really have to tell you that six years ago I was surprised by that regulation, because some people in my ministry, while I was minister, stopped working because of that provision of the law. And now you're telling me that's not true. Now I am not able to bring you a member of the Law, and it would be rude to give you the names and last names of those persons, to whom the working relationship has ceased in this way. You're challenging me now and saying, "It's not true." (From Velimir Simonovic's place: He doesn't have to! He's got to! I'm just criticizing a bill that says "must."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19049	Please don't throw it away. Please, Mr. Krassic, don't answer to the MPs. I'd like you to state your point of view. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19050	I'm just saying what I've been through. Two of my assistants lost their employment, that's exactly why. They were employees of the ministry. Someone once set them up as an assistant. There's been a change of government, they've run out of mandate, they've agreed they've run out of mandate, they've been at their disposal for six months, because they've stopped working in the ministry. Not a working relationship as an assistant, but a working relationship as an employee. I'm criticizing it. That's what I'm talking about. What do I want to tell you? You can't avoid that political impression, or extending your mandate, so I made a little joke, so I said eight years. It's impossible. It's the government that owns it. She sets it up, she solves it. I have to give you one more provision. I don't know how you missed her. For example, you have Article 23: "The Minister is responsible to the Government and the National Assembly for the work of the Ministry and the situation in all areas of the Ministry's work." So he can kill himself from work, be the best, pet him, but the situation in that area is bad, and he's in charge. The situation can be extremely good without the minister doing anything, so the ministry doesn't do anything. Now you've put something in charge that's pure politics. I agree. For the ministry's work, as a broader concept of interpreting the ministry's work, it should remain, but this for the state, it confuses it. I also like her with the secretary of state, the assistant minister, the secretary of the ministry. You didn't provide anything, that the competition was, that they appear most professional, that you extend that mandate, etc. If you are making a parallel between the National Assembly and the President of the Republic, four years of mandate and five years, you have forgotten one thing – that this was chosen by the people in the elections. Let the government change, let the other government be, and why would she suffer the assistant ministers, why would she suffer, let's say, Orlic's wife. You probably know since you're a member of the government and you know how systematization is, they have 10, 12 assistants. It's not working. I agree with some intensities that implement, change of government, five people come out of the ministry, and the rest remains, the people professionals who do this job professionally, but it's handled in another way, not this way. This way, you're just drawing attention. When the government sets someone up and solves how you can limit the government. It will always be resolved by the government of the assistant minister, the secretary. The situation is similar with the secretary of the ministry, before some ministries have a secretary, and some do not. Now you're introducing this secretary of state, and in our time they were some special advisors, it wasn't clear to anyone, but you can't move it. You can't move him because he has employee status. A special advisor, perhaps 20 years ago, was an assistant minister, found himself here, remained and protected as a bear, and the assistant stops working. I'm not going to name specific people who just went through it. It's a similar situation with the secretariats, not to mention the name again, so some people are barely left to be employed in the state administration based on another competition, on, in the hierarchy, lower jobs. So, if you're talking about this secretary of state, although I don't think he's necessary at all, about the assistant minister, the secretary of the ministry, their political relationship in this system is impossible to avoid. I fully agree, department chiefs, where the professional people are, but they are also being set up, the minister sets them up, layouts to that place because they are extremely professional, etc. We're going to have this problem that our government is kind of inter-cancellary, you can't say it's a clean office principle, but something quasi-cancellary. If a minister is elected based on the results of the election, the team he brings through the government by setting up is his team to implement his policy or politics to the ruling coalition. There must be ministerial assistants on that team. When I say they need to implement politics, I'm not talking about breaking the law at all, there's got to be a waist. That's the difference between us. This party will better organise the work of this ministry, this weaker ministry, better perhaps another ministry. Why do we immediately find black holes in the whole concept? How can you rule out political influence in government authorities? It can be tolerable and intolerable, it can be in the function of law enforcement, in the function of constitutionality and legality and may be in the function of abuse, but these are now quality things. That is why governments fall, which is why other people are elected to the proper state functions. Employees should be protected from such influences, I fully agree with that, but this way you think protecting employees is absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19051	The word is Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19052	I won't talk about the criteria on the basis of which one, we can call it a functioner, it's a matter of convention, based on which someone in a position is considered political or so-called. The expert manager. I'll just say two things. The Institute of State Secretary and the Institute of Special Advisors referred to in Article 27. The law on state administration serves what was just said -- that the minister brings his political and expert team. To be clear, it's not the Ministry and it's not the state of anyone's grandfather that brings his assistant ministers with every policy shift or government. The whole thing has a completely different look when viewed from the point of view of the continuity of the work of the state administration. Every shift by the assistant minister, secretary, deputy minister who has been present so far, all the cutting of princes with the arrival of the new government created discontinuity in the work of the state administration for several months and even caused crises. We want people of continuity who are able to introduce the minister into the professional aspects of his work. These are the assistants, these are the secretaries, and the secretary of state and special advisors, let the minister lead the policy. In the end, only about the government's authority to appoint and resolve officials. The purpose of the constitutional provision is to say that it is the government that is competent to do so, but not to regulate the conditions under which the government does so. The conditions under which the Government does so shall be governed by the legislator, i.e. The National Assembly. Under current law, ministerial assistants, whose names have not been mentioned, have the right to be deployed to an appropriate workplace at the end of their term of office, and if such a job does not exist or disagree with that job, then their working relationship ends. He who, for the assistants of Minister Krasic, the previous speaker, automatically without a second job offer made a solution to the termination of the employment relationship, deeply and severely injured a valid Article 70. Law on labour relations in state authorities. That's what they have right now, and they'll have a law on civil servants. So it's about breaking the law, not wronging them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19053	Does any other parliamentary group want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 27 and Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19054	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this member as well as many members before this member in this law, as well as many members, almost all the members of all the laws that have been adopted so far in this National Assembly, have one negative tendency to expand the bureaucratic apparatus so that all those responsible for October's "bulldozer" revolution and barjaktars, as well as those who were at the beginning, are employed in the state administration, given that this government literally does not care about the economy functioning, so that people are employed in the economy. The MP, Mrs Gordana Pop-Lazic, has tabled an amendment asking for article 27 and the title above article 27 to be deleted. I'm a little bit of an exhibit, I guess, clear enough, but I guess I didn't get it. It's not about employees who are in the ministry. It is about appointed and appointed persons, who must, the moment the political party changes, when some new people come, have to bear the consequences of the government's president. What's symptomatic of this member and exactly that expansion of red tape, and you know, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs from the ruling nomenclature that, literally, you can't find any more than a little bit of a private enterprise that works, and besides a little bit of public enterprises, you can't find a job anywhere else to hire the expert you've trained. Unfortunately, but that's right. After all, we're all witnesses of those laws where the agencies are formed, so the ministry has an agency, so the agency has another agency, etc. This is where we come in to name special advisors of ministers. In addition to the State Secretary, or Deputy Minister, that is what he has so far been called, in addition to his assistants, who can be 12, we have ministries that have 12 assistants, besides many others who are usually in the ministry, we also invent an institution of special advisors. A special adviser doesn't have to be employed by the ministry, but he'll get hold of the "suu" too, and he'll extract funds from the ministry through the provision of services. Do you want us to prove to you again that they are your experts, and all I see here is a picture, more to say "expert," instead of this special advisor. Would you like us to prove to you now how many of your experts you've brought in, collected from the end and rope and brought in after the October bulldozer revolution, how much they've ruined the state of Serbia, how much they've reversed the economic flows, how many businesses they've destroyed, etc. He says, "The minister can appoint no more than three special advisors." So you denied him that he couldn't do it anymore. Well, 17 ministries times three, just all of your "experts" who left their post after 2003 can return to the ministries. It smells like that coalition between DS and your coalition, it feels in the air. So Novakovic will no longer have to, Euro diesel only imports and exports to the paper and that all Euro diesel in the oil industry can only be purchased through Novakovic's company. What is produced by NIS Euro diesel remains in the refineries and is sold by Novakovic. He has taken the exclusive right to trade in Euro diesels for himself. Whose godfather is Novakovic, you see it amongst yourselves, I won't tell you. Well, you put on that "expert," he was the Minister of Agriculture, and now you put him in charge of the Chamber of Commerce. So you feel like they're getting out of position and they're supposed to come back here. Unnecessary red tape. In addition to what the ministry's systematization envisions, I don't think these special advisors, special advisors, most special advisors, de Lux advisors, Gold Liss advisers really need any ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19055	Please, MP Zoran Krasic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19056	The problem is that at the beginning of this bill, in fact, we don't have one member to state what the subject of this law is, but it immediately moves on with the definition of what the state administration is and pushes on. If we had a clear idea of what the subject of the law is, then we could interpret what the promoter wanted with a particular provision and a particular chapter. We will probably all agree that the state administration law should regulate the organisation of the state administration, define the authorities of the state administration, the jobs they do in principle, but we now have the concept that, parallel to this law, the law on civil servants, where the status issues of employees and officials in the bodies of the state administration are regulated. That's probably why members 26 and 27, especially members 27, don't get an insight into what is the organisational part of the government's body dealing with administrative affairs. I used the words "administrative jobs" in the broadest sense of the word. Here you have a special adviser to the minister, who is not an authorised official, who cannot conduct administrative proceedings, but is an adviser, preparing proposals, making up opinions and doing other tasks for the minister, with the obvious intention of connecting it with Article 12, possibly Article 13. Proposal for a law, which lists the affairs of the state administration: participation in the form of government policy, monitoring of the situation, etc. So it's a relationship, but it's not administrative business, and it has to be said. It goes to a special adviser to a minister who is not in a working relationship, but is in some way employed by the ministry. He's in some special civil-law relationship more with the minister than with the state. It's completely unnecessary, apparently, an expert in one ministry. This is contrary to what you have defended previous members, so you said the assistant minister should be an independent, professional person, when the minister arrives, that he should be told what is done in the ministry, which are professional affairs. So what's a special advisor for? We have no luck with those advisors at all. We today have some ministers who have some of their advisors who are in charge of, as their media representatives, attacking someone, cursing someone, brutally moving on. Who does that suit? Who's the special advisor in charge of? Minister? Why would the minister change him when he's just finishing his dirty work? Whether it's in this ministry or in that ministry, it doesn't matter. Make a connection to the Government Act, the provisions on cabinets and advisers, the right of the Deputy Prime Minister to receive so much and so much as to conclude some special contracts with them, that they are in some civil-legal relationship, that he offers his large professional services, etc. The previous amendments, concerning the assistant minister and secretary of the ministry, the SRS are being disputed, for exactly what it is said – this way they are guaranteed to be professional people waiting for the minister, so ministers can change, but they are there, they are waiting. There's a problem, Mr. Balinovac. You have experience, all of these powers, and those before 1990 and before 2000, and this one after 2000. The problem is obstruction. You didn't solve this problem with this law. They'll drive both the minister and the new assistant, and the secretary, and the special advisor, all those who work there for twenty years. They'll change any color you want. They have the least problem with changing colors, and we swear here that we protect their profession. Where's their waist? Please, how can you propose a bill like this? Open up and tell us how you prevented Lalovic from joining the SDP all those who want to stay in his ministry from working. I argue, someone can say I'm lying, it's his political position, but I claim that, after this new organisation, Minister Lalovic has conditioned everyone -- if you want to stay in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, you have to join the SDP?- I'm sorry. How did you stop it, both of you, and what's happened now? There's no way you can stop it. Until a month ago Ljiljana Nedeljkovic talked about depolitisation of the state administration. What depolitisation of the state administration from the pay phone, and in practice Lalovic joins, Covic joins. Look now, SDP is a factor in Presevo. Why? Well, Covic was a co-ordinator, he joined his party, and it is reportedly a factor in the privatisation of Hebe, around this and about that. You're offering us something here and asking us to trust you. How can we trust the government when things are happening the opposite of what you're proposing, completely opposite things. I just said, you don't want to understand, political influence can't be avoided, but let's localize it to five or six people, to the secretary of the ministry, to the assistant ministers, who, by that, are recognizable. He may not be a member of a party, but he is an assistant minister at the ministry where Minister Janko Jankovic is from the party and the party. It is no bother that he can remain in the next meeting, although he is not a member of any party. But why make a boogeyman out of it? It is normal to change five or six people, and you are now insisting – five-year term, in previous members, and now special advisers etc. Who are the special advisors? Here's Vladeta Jankovic, the other day he was on TV, why doesn't the Prime Minister come out and explain? Why come out some special advisors, assistants, talk, explain. Or, the People's Office, the other day, when there was a discussion about the protection of citizens, of course, that the People's Office is some kind of protector of citizens, well, whether it should be a graduate lawyer, that it has 10 years of working experience in protecting rights, etc. What's this Gilas got? He's, as far as I know, a machine engineer, so he's not in engineering, he's in the media. It's our reality. Why are we running away from that? Let's not swear on that. We make a lot of mistakes when we swear. I said, political influence cannot be avoided, it can be positive, progressive, in accordance with the law, that it has a political impact on law enforcement, etc. Could be abuse. Did we protect the abuses? We didn't. Will the five-year term protect abuse? He won't. Why? As soon as you're out of power, the other government changes its assistants, secretaries and everything else. How can you stop it? There's nothing you can do to stop it. It can't even be stopped in local self-government. He can't. There is now a promotional principle that without competition people are placed on responsible functions. As the government changes, the board changes, the director of local television changes, sets it up without competition. What a competition, we've parched, this party so much, this so much. (President: Time. ) Now hold us here, I apologize for having to say that word, some lectures – depolitisation, expertise, etc. While you say those words in 10-15 ministries, there's a completely opposite process going on. I took Lalovic because he's famous, he doesn't mind going out for a pay phone and saying everything and everything. Don't trust him at all what he says when he comes out for a pay phone. That's your situation in other ministries as well. Let's move on, Angelko Trpkovic. He's set up all his scuttlers to serve him or Dani. What kind of black party is that? It all depends on their personal boss and personal interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19057	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Is there any other parliamentary group that wants to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 28 and 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19058	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Dr Branislav Blazic, with his amendment, which he submitted on behalf of the SRS, asked that the title above Article 28 and Article 28 be deleted. The title above article 28 reads "The Council of Ministers". Article 28 reads: "The minister can establish the minister's advice as his advisory body. The position of members of the Council of Ministers shall be governed by the act of the Government." Article 23 regulates the issue of ministers. Of Articles 24, 25, 26, 27 and 28, it points to a tendency that this outgoing government has been fostering all the time, which is the red tape of the ministries, the red tape of the government. The Council of Ministers will be established as an advisory body. So, in addition to all these he has in his ministry, in addition to all the experts I spoke about, which in one way or another, you're going to drag into the ministry, you're going to set up a council of ministers, who are going to advise him on how to work. If there's a minister's advice, why would he need a deputy, or a secretary of state, why would he need a secretary of the ministry, an assistant, what would he need with all that bolument you're planning to introduce? You're going to make an administration at the ministry, you're going to have little for the three ministries that are now housed in the ministries. You will create a huge bureaucratic machine that will eat up to the end of this country's substance. He'll be aware that they have to pay for the minister, the minister's office. The only task of the entire economy will be to ensure that you have the authority of the minister, his assistants, his deputies, advisors, advisors, the agency, the director of the agency, and everything you've done, you've done like a pyramid, so it goes from one man to the bottom, until it comes down from the local self-government. It's a huge bureaucratic pyramid that needs to be supported. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, don't play. Read, in the history of this parliamentaryism, there were ministries in the history of this government that worked very successfully with far fewer officials. I advise Mr. Balinovac to adopt this amendment, as before, and to continue to work, to try to make this law, which is not right, to be at least applicable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19059	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word is from MP Zoran Krasic, the same about the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19060	This article forms practically something new that has never existed before, and I have to say that there have been some ministries, but under a different name. I have to say, it's not a college. The college is made up of people from the ministry. They used to be assistants and secretaries. That's one thing to say, an operational working body that serves to communicate and coordinate ministry affairs. The Council of Ministers shall be an advisory body, at least as provided for in Article 28. A representative of the government can say – there he stands, can be established, not necessarily, probably for some ministries where it is extremely professional business, so it takes some advisory body, that simply the minister can't know everything. It would be good to advise, exchange opinions with science, practice and that such a body should exist. That idea, in the end, isn't so bad, it's good. But if it rises to the level of one legal norm, then there is a danger of being abused by some ministers, where their ministries do not need it. We, within this session of the National Assembly, have on the agenda, it seems to me, one point -- consumer protection law, where consumer advice at the Ministry of Trade is also envisaged and nothing more is said, but that the minister determines. I can probably do that, if this member remains 28th of these powers, to abuse some ministry where there's really no need for such a thing. That's why we're suggesting that this isn't put into law, but there's a substitute for it. The minister is authorised to form a working group to discuss an area, some questions and give some advice and a proposal. A task force wouldn't be a legal category. Why would a legal provision have to be regulated? It comes from the minister's position so he can do these things. Well, you probably won't accept it, but you want everything to be in institutions somehow, in some form of organization. However, there is a danger, regardless of what you said in Section 2 that the Government prescribes certain criteria, i.e. – the position of members of the council is governed by the act of the Government, the risk of abuse of this provision is much greater than the benefit that would be achieved in this way. I must tell you, since you are Mr Balinovac's secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, for the past year and a half, we have had so many draft laws, in which the minister is represented as an authority, the ministry responsible for affairs, and a kind of symbiosis has been created between the minister and the ministry. The minister and the ministry have become synonyms. Unfortunately, I've only turned your attention to where the "minister brings" was said, so he's defined as an individual, and you remember that there's always been a ministry responsible for the affairs and so on. In the Law on Higher Education, we have two different members in one minister, and in the second ministry in charge of jobs and so on. We suggest that you do not put this as a legal norm, by not arguing the right of the minister to organise an expert task force that would help him with some very professional question. That communication exists. If you think the provisions on the minister's advice to promote it for the first time, it's not true, it exists now. Anyone who wants to do an extremely good job will always ask the profession and the science. In what form this contact will take place, that's another question. Whether through another institution, whether in an unrelated conversation, whether to attend a symposium, whether to sponsor some symposiums dealing with a particular issue. They're modals. I'm deliberately saying that this isn't the ministry's college, this is something else, here it is understood that people from the ministry probably get into the council, but also a lot more people on the side who are experts in a particular area. So, the idea isn't bad, but don't make it an institution, and you're building an institution, and it's like a college thing, just by the fact that you're dedicated to one member of that concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19061	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Mr Zoran Balinovac has the Secretary of the Secretariat for the Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19062	The main criticism concerning the institution of the Council of Ministers was to bureaucratise the state apparatus, so new ones are being brought in, costs are being higher, these costs are being borne on the burden of citizens, etc. It's said to be new, but it's a novelty that's dangerous. I'll just quote a valid article 51. The State Administration Act, a member that's been in force since 1992 until today. The current article 51 reads, "In order to address some important issues from the ministry's work, the ministry can educate the minister's advice, as an advisory body run by the minister." Therefore, the draft state administration law does not introduce anything new, nothing bureaucratic, but reinterprets what has been in place with us, at least in the normative plan since 1992. However, if you permit, I think the Government would accept this amendment, because there is another way to do so, so I would agree with the amendment to delete Article 28.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19063	Thank you. Therefore, the amendment is accepted by the proposing representative. I thank you for the correctness and for the overall debate to be correct, according to Article 27, once again, I would like to inform you of the way I chair this session. So for each type of correctness, this is a single debate, it is enough to give a sign that we accept, if the amendment is accepted. Also, the debate in particular implies that there are reasons. It is the fundamental right of MPs to represent their views or views of their colleagues in which, irrespective of the argument they will apply, they will represent a certain position. However, it is not necessary, except when the debate in particular is over, to add up all the objections and once again give a clear explanation of what will affect or will not affect the improvement of the legislative proposal. I thank you all for your cooperation. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19064	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment I have submitted and on behalf of the SRS also concerns the mandate of the directors working in the authorities of the state administration. The proposed solution is five years. The SRS considers a more appropriate solution for four years. The promoter, i.e. the government, justify these years by depoliticalising the authorities of the state administration. So they've already appointed their directors from their parties, they think they're the best, the smartest, the fairest, but they're theirs first. Now, through the bill of law, they want, when they lose power, to keep control of the government. This would be possible or an even simpler solution, rather unserious, because the bill is also quite unserious, which is that the MPs are elected for four years after the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the ministers for five years, so there is depoliticalisation, because as they say in Article 31, and now explain to me that depolitisation: "The director, who is responsible for his work for the work of the minister," and the minister is proposing a director appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Someone explain to me, if the Government of the Republic of Serbia is the executive body of a coalition of political parties, the government is the political government of some parties. Whose directors, when the political party officials who are ministers, are proposing a director? Same these parties. What kind of depoliticality are you talking about now? Is she even possible? I agree that in the first place you should observe the waist. No serious political party will ever change any director, who really manages the authorities of the state administration – if that authority has given the best results during his term of office, it will not just change because, perhaps, it belongs to another political party, because the government and the political party while in power, this job is working for them and whether or not they want to, the results are taken over by the government and not by him as an individual. That's how political parties see it, which are serious. Those non-serious political parties have proved that the state administration is seen after October 5th, when the number of ministries is reduced under the government's pretext of efficiency. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the state administration were the spoils of the five-octobar revolutionaries, and the reduction of the number of ministries was made because each president of some political party Budinist in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the rest of what remains on the other hand was needed to carry out new systematization, reduce the number of ministries, to bring up the former, the most ordinary officials and officials here about the directors, and you were changing the most ordinary officials and officials and dragging yours. Well, at least you dragged people out of the profession, but you dragged your cousins, your uncles, your aunts, your aunts, your grandparents. Those who voted for this government, Mr. Slavoljub Matic, you voted for them. And now, all of a sudden, an ex-post mind -- well, now we're not going to depolitize anymore. We've set up the departments to suit us, we've hired employees who are our relatives, we've appointed directors who suit us, well, now it's not that anymore. They are no longer politicians, they are officials and no one can change them. Then let's put these directors, deputies, assistants, who carry a political function in line with the ministers -- five years, regardless of the duration of the Serbian Parliament. As far as this is unserious, it is seen from the example that this government is still in force in the Regulation on the control of oil and petroleum products, i.e. imports of oil and petroleum products. Why? Oil and oil derivatives are excise goods. Any smuggling makes a big extra profit to whoever's doing it. This government controls, has legal powers, has instruments, to control the border and the market completely. Why, then, this regulation so that no one but the state can import oil derivatives. You don't trust your Director of Customs. You don't trust your customs officers, which you hired and set up. You expect some party that comes to power after you to trust these people and hold them in that position. Isn't that funny? You yourself are unable to control your officers. Why? Because you've appointed them politically, politically or otherwise. Maybe it's a deal. Maybe some debt for some favor that was done. Who knows what's been going on for the past five years, so now you can't do anything to them. Furthermore, it is seen here that the Director may have assistants, as said in Article 32. I asked my amendment that state administration authorities have deputy directors. You know, an assistant can have more, two, three, I don't know how much you're proposing here, but in any case, the question is, who's going to be responsible for the work of that government authority if the director gets sick and doesn't have special authority to answer. Will they argue between themselves which one of them is there longer, who works longer as an assistant, who has more work experience, who of them graduated from the university concerning this particular body of state administration, etc. Who's older, who's taller in height. Whether it's going to be by the number of shoes, the color of the eyes. What is the criterion of who will be handling these bodies by these assistants? It's not there. There's no such thing in this bill. So the directors of the state administration should have their deputy. The deputy is one. He doesn't need special authority. If the Director is prevented, for whatever reason, his deputy is doing his job, he shall coordinate with the work of the Assistant Director and other parts of the State Administration Authority. The system of state administration by serious political parties, such as the SRS, is not seen this way. That's your problem. Just under one pretext of depoliticalism, and here, I've even seen the minister no longer use domestic words here but finds some sides. I guess it's in fashion now, since October 5th, and it's simply trying, under some pretext, and you use foreign words like the convention, transparency, I don't know what else, to introduce some new fashion into the authorities of the state administration, and you don't know the quality of that matter yourself, which is called the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19065	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. Now the replica of Mr. Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19066	Of course, I am entitled to a replica because the predecessor called me directly. Otherwise, usually, behind these dreary faces of people who bring up national problems here with some degree of seriousness that simply cannot be interpreted as serious, usually actions show something quite different, and those acts, let's say, when Mr. Veroljub Arsic, and he has a very important influence in the fire municipality, when you simply observe or appreciate them, then you will see that behind these serious words, serious criticisms, in fact there are interests of sister-in-laws, godmothers and employment precisely on a party basis and that, that the blacks and worse are, the SRS are working together with Karic's party. That's true. So, party nepotism, cousin nepotism, and not to list all the related connections that are present in the municipality of Pogorec and, beware, all these words, all this criticism that is heard, of course, is falling into the water because reality is completely different. I will remind myself that in 2001 I voted for the government headed by the late Zoran Djindjic, and normally it was the result of the people's will. Please, Mrs. Radeta, let me finish what I have. So, of course I voted because it was the expression of the people's will at the time. The DOS list, led by Vojislav Kostunica, received 176 mandates from the people, and it was perfectly normal to form a government. It was also normal for those in that coalition to differ over time and divorce, and we did so. Of course we were, like radicals, critics of this particular party nepotism and the possibility of a shortcut reaching some positions and results. But, please, this law is just trying to solve these problems. Do not criticize anything that does not stand, and I especially resent those critics whose actions speak much better than words.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19067	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, there is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19068	I appeal to the member and provisions of the Rules of Procedure which regulate the MP who speaks for this speaker to speak exclusively the truth. The fact is that after October 5th, the DOS coalition came to power in Požarec, that you replaced all directors of public enterprises and institutions. That's right. Furthermore, the coalition between the SRS and the Serbian Force Movement in Pogorevec is constantly being respected here. And from a man who's a member of the DSS. I don't mind. Just let him check on what his municipal committees are doing, for example. in Petrovac on Mlavi. It is the same in the coalition with the Serbian Movement of Forces. In the Great City, you are also in a coalition with the Serbian Movement of Forces... (Comment from the O.R.: No, but it helps Karic. And Karic helps them? Now, that's a different story. Furthermore, when we talked here about 176 MPs, and that you wanted to show a difference compared to Zoran Djindjic, why were you with him on the list? It's different when there's two lists, so there's a coalition, so you split up, and the other is when you're on one list. You say that was the list of Vojislav Kostunica. Maybe. Did she wear his name, but whose voices were they? You can share them. We are so many, they are so many. No, you made a coalition agreement, how much you will and how you will share your mandates, but you were elected together. And that's the weight you pull and you're going to drag as a party as long as you exist. That's not clear to you. It's a political decision you don't want to talk about. You only know how to talk about what you tried to do, and who you brought to power, it didn't matter to you. Don't go by the pay phone to tell us empty stories. As the Serbian Radical Party behaves in the local government in Pozarevec – three of your directors remained in public enterprises and institutions, no one changed them. The head of the inspection service from the Democratic Party of Serbia remained. At least you set it up. You set him up while you were in power, so the other thing is that he left your party. No one forced him to do that. Don't tell such stories and lies after this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19069	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word. (At the same time, the word was given because you were personally mentioned, so I realized that you were misread. Otherwise, according to the Rules of Procedure, the MP is not obliged to speak the truth, nor could anyone judge here, please, but is obliged to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19070	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of this law is trying to introduce depolitisation of the state administration and a new way of choosing what it is. persons in position, who will be non-political persons and will be elected from the ranks of experts by special procedure, which has so far not existed in the current Law on the Organisation of State Administration. I'd like to remind you of an article. 12th and 20th of this law, which is directly related to the amendment to Article 32 concerning the politicalisation or depoliticalisation of the state administration. Article 12 states that state administration authorities are preparing draft laws, other regulations and general acts for the government and proposing to the government a development strategy and other measures to formulate the government's policy. The administration's body as part of the ministry participates in forming a government policy through the ministry. In Article 20, which regulates development affairs, the authorities of the state administration, encourage and direct development in the areas of their work, according to the government's policy. This suggests that state administration authorities are also involved in creating government policy and implementing government policy. This bill seeks to avoid the government and government members' influence as clean officials on state administration authorities, whether within the ministry, or as independent authorities and their executives, means, persons placed in position, from political influence. Here it should be presented that those persons, who are placed in a position - are apolitical, that they are exclusively related to the profession, that they are not related to government policy and government members, which does not correspond to the truth. Article 32, which was submitted to the SRS amendment, refers to the selection of assistant directors of the management body as part of the ministry. It provides that the Assistant Director shall be responsible for his work to the Director and the Minister. What corresponds to the Director of the Authority of the Ministry, that is understandable. It is a direct manager and a suspected assistant director, however, it is unclear why he would answer to the minister when the assistant director is not a political function, is not a political figure. He should be responsible for his profession, for his work. He's the only one who can answer politically to the minister. It can't be any different. I don't know how you thought you'd avoid that trap, pick on the one hand an assistant director, who's an apolitical figure, who doesn't get involved in politics, and on the other hand, he's directly responsible for a minister who's a political official. In paragraph 3, the same is true, as in the bill of law, a five-year term, for appointed persons and at all for persons in position. The persons are placed on the same principle, the minister suggests, the government adopts, all with a reason that it has nothing to do with politics and that they are the ultimate experts who will only enforce the law, which will not interfere in politics, although this law obliges the authorities in the formation of the ministry and the independent authorities to implement the government's policy and to influence government policymaking. There is illogicality, how someone who is apolitical and exclusively deals with his profession to influence government policymaking and has to implement government policy. So he must know the politics of the government. He has to be politically written. He must follow the government's official political stances, so that he can adequately act in his administration body, in which he holds the position of the elected person. He has to, he didn't want to do politics. It's impossible to remain apolitical. The main proof that those persons who are placed in a position, that they are essentially still officials and political officials, and that they are people who are also concerned about politics and taking care of it, and I don't see anything wrong with being involved in politics. I think we should all deal with politics, because politics is about all of us. The question of mandate: if someone is placed in a position and is not a political official and if that political official formula is avoided, why is the term of office committed to him? Why don't you put yourself in the position of the assistant director's face indefinitely? Why is he getting married for five years? The conditions for resolution are not political. There is nowhere to be listed as belonging to a party, so now by changing the government that it will be resolved, but the conditions for resolution concern some other matters, its expertise, its abilities and the results it achieves in its management body and in which the assistant director is. If those are the reasons for the resolution, why are you giving him a term of office for five years, when he's an expert? He's doing his job. He doesn't care about politics, he doesn't belong to any political party. He's only looking at his subjects, looking at the work of the government's authority. Why are you giving a five-year term? Why are you tying him to five years? Why don't you give the mandate and the officers, the perpetrators, so people who aren't put in a position but are perpetrators? Why don't they have a five-year term, too? Why don't you give them a five-year term? They're not functioners either. To all officers, then give a five-year term, every five years to re-election. So, you've tried one twisted way to present how this bill has executed the depoliticalization of the administration, how politics will come out of the administration, only the profession, that political officials will be ministers and state secretaries, or as they've been called so far, deputy ministers, and that all of these under them will be just an official structure, which will enforce the laws, do quality work, and will not interfere with politics, with this law again, and I must repeat, at least in two members, obliges those persons to take care of government policy. At the end of the line, they have to influence the creation of a government policy. One who implements government policy and participates in government policy cannot be an apolitical figure. He can't work past politics. He has to follow the government's policy, he just can't do it without each other. I think the whole concept of this "depoliticalisation" law has failed, and I think my predecessors from the SRS, who said, have explained in detail that this concept is not good and that it does not give any new solutions or improvements in the work of the authorities of the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19071	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19072	In the initial members of this bill, I get the impression after this explanation by Mr Milajić that everyone in the hall following this session has finally become clear that this law does not make a clear distinction between certain categories, and these categories are prescribed by the Constitution. The Ministry is an authority of the state administration. There can be administrations as part of the ministry. They're not a special organ, they're in composition. This species exists under the names of the administration, as an example: customs, tax; it can exist as an inspectorate: there is labour inspection, market; and, may exist as a directorate: a Directorate for the Stock Reserve or take this perhaps most significant at the moment, the Republic Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia. So they're administrations within the government's authority. Basically, they're not such an independent organ. This amendment, which has been submitted, as regards the Assistant Director, means the official who manages, conditionally speaking, the form of a administration in the authority of the State Administration, is the Director of the Administration and should now be the Director of the Inspectorate. However, it is now a practice for the official to be called chief inspector and as a third vision is the director of some of the directorates. Mr. Milajic pointed out to you the illogicality where it is proven that depolitisation of the state administration is practically impossible. The Republic Public Revenue Administration used to be independent, not part of the Ministry of Finance. In the past, the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves, based on this same Constitution, was independent and did not have the status of administration within the Authority of the State Administration, but had the status of a special administrative organisation. Then the minister in charge of a particular area had no influence on the administration or the directorate. It was changed in 2001 and it was well done. Probably the ministry should be a second-degree body in all those administrative matters, where the IRS solves as a first-degree body. The ministry should be a second-degree body when it comes to some customs procedure, where the customs authority handles it as first-degree. Now I'm expanding this, so I'm going to go to the next chapter, just to tell you that this bill did not make a clear distinction. Now we have special organizations. Types of special organizations are secretaries and seducers. The Office for the Spatial Plan, the Institute for Development, the Republic Bureau for Statistics, and we have these secretariats, for example, the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives. Why it's a special organization, so it's self-absorbed, and management is part of the government's body. This fine, thin distinction is necessary tomorrow because of the material laws and the fact that a general administrative procedure law is to be applied, so if we add a fourth category of entrusted transactions to an autonomous province, municipality, city or public enterprises, then we come to the conclusion that you have confused the institutes. You've confused those institutes, and the proof of that is the basic principle that you've promoted, five years to get rid of politics, to be independent, etc. He's going down as a member. I'm not talking about practice right now. He's falling normally. You in each of the following provisions have a conflicting provision in relation to the principle that is represented in some previous provision, and in that sense you need to understand what Mr. Milajic was saying, because something by status must be if not identical, then approximately similar. You have a bigger difference from member to member. One principle was, as you can see, for the authorities of the state administration, the ministry, the second principle of administration within the state administration, and now you'll see the third principle of special organisations and then goes on. This will be an obstacle to the uniform application of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It's not a good thing you pulled state officials into a special law. It was supposed to be one chapter, one chapter, a few chapters of this law on state administration where it's regulated, practically, to the widest form of the issue of the jurisdiction of the state authority, both real, both meat and personal, to know who's authorized to decide and who isn't. I deliberately avoid being critical of what you have stated is that the work of the inspectorate of the administration, the directorate, and later the secretariat and the institute, and there is a difference in the application of the General Administrative Procedure Act, who performs what professional tasks, who performs part of business in the field of economy and what a mutual relationship is. It's all messed up in this law, at least in the provisions that we've been through so far. So, that initial disdain that it's not like this but, well, the principles, you'll see the amendments going, the way it's being worked out, it's experiencing its fiasco.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19073	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On the title above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19074	I'll point out on the case from practice that what's written here can't go through. Article 36. The proposal for a law has the title — Director of a special organisation. The special organisation shall be listed as seductions and secretariats. Now we have not a director, but a Republic secretary. The special organisation is managed by the Director, who is responsible for his work to the Government. The director is appointed by the government for five years, on a proposal from the Prime Minister, under a law governing the position of civil servants. Our amendment essentially comes down to it – that the five-year deadline is reduced to four years, and that, behind the words of the Government, in accordance with the law that regulates the position of civil servants, we ask that it be deleted. Now put yourself in a position to change the government, regularly, the four-year term expired, was the election. In the second year of her term, the government elected a director of the Republic Statistics Office. If his term is five years, he's still three years old. So, there's a new government forming, and that man needs to work for another three years. How did this happen in this government of yours? When you formed the Government, you chose the new director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Zoran Joncic, you changed the man of mathematics, you chose statistics, he's correct, and there's no god knows what to talk about. You changed it after three, four, five months. I think that's where the DSS picked his man. Now, you explain to me why this right that you used doesn't matter how you got that right and how you built it, why don't you let someone come after you? In that law, which was in force when you came to power, it stood for four years, so you changed it. Why wouldn't someone else have that right now after you? Let's get the Republic Secretariat for Legislatives. What changed Biserka Zivkovic? She's an expert, a great expert. We laughed at RIK, no idea of women, wrongly went there to do something. For changing her, so you put Zoran Balinovec in. It is a shame to compare Zoran Balinovac and Biserko Zivkovic. Balinian knows the job, the other thing is whether it's always good quality, because of some side effect, etc. We call him many times because of some legal-technical shortcomings in the law, and we know that he is not guilty, but let the force say – sign that everything is fine, let him go. Why did you change Biserka Zivkovic? How can I trust you now to honestly suggest this? Biserka Zivkovic could have been the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for two more years, so you changed her, you used your right to set up and resolve. Why, by this bill of law, you're holding back the future and you say, "it will be," for depolitical purposes. Well, Zoran Balinovac is a very depolitic doctor of law! As he could be depoliticized, he was an adviser to Kostunica while he was president of the SRJ. I don't mention it in a negative context, I'm just stating it as a fact. Why don't you let other people use that right you're using? When you use it, it's normal. When radicals use it, it'll be a "cut of princes", as you said earlier and run away. It's something that comes from the legal and constitutional position of the government. Why is it that what comes from the constitutional position of the government you want to change, to be detroved in some way. "We have depolitized." Tell me which secretary of the Republic Legislative Secretariat will be elected in the competition. There isn't. The government is using its right. When did you open a competition for the Director of the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia? It doesn't occur to you, you've appointed a man you consider to know these regulations and that he can work with a certain mandate. Of course, when the government's composition changes, those people, who are in those places, count on them to go right away. You now forcefully push a five-year term, like, they're not politicians. Everything that is chosen, and not by competition, can't be said to have been a dominant profession. And if you introduce an institute of competition, there may be more abuses. Here are your public procurement - to prevent corruption, money spills, budget spending, we go with public procurement. What did Djelic and the company do? Public procurement is being set up. How was the Belgrade Hall made? One contract at five, then after the annex another 10, then another annex another 12, then another 13, then another 15. Now we have a law on public procurement that legalized what the law was passed and, apparently, someone struggled not to be. So I'm going back to watching that abuse stop. We now have a situation where some abuses, which we suspect, as a representative group of the SRS, so we want that suspicion to be materialized and to prove in some debate here, you say – no, it can't, we don't allow. It's been two months, and then you're saying what we've been asking you for the past two months to get into the agenda. This may be a little wider, but within the subject. This isn't how the government depolitizes itself. It is perfectly normal that, after the election, a number of ministry officials, administrations within the ministry, special organisations, leave their posts, as in some countries, where there is a developed democracy, knows. As the elections end, the results are announced, they are going very quickly, within two or three days, swearings are being taken within five days, the government and those civil servants who have tied their place and function to the political furniture that is in power, packing pencils, pens, preparing records on the addition of duties and leaving peacefully, without any problems, because everything else would be illogical. You saw for yourself that it was illogical for Nebojsa Covic to remain head of the Coordination Centre, because he didn't go through the elections, and then those three ran away from G17 plus, so they made fusion, so now they're the election results, he has some justification. You saw it yourself, it's been a year and a half and there's a cat coming out. You had to move it. Everyone was surprised you didn't move him on the first day. It's similar to that. It is necessary to stop the abuse of political function, but to run from political function and political influence at all costs, that is insane, that is impossible, because in the end it raises the question of why we go to elections, why we are politically different. It doesn't make sense. Don't deny yourself. "We have made a revolution and said that five years is a mandate." You didn't do anything! Who can believe that?- I'm sorry. Here, let me give you an example from the municipality of Zemun, it's a good thing that this messenger isn't here. He was charged in the third year after the end of his term that he had received 70 and a few more workers, past the law, above all else, etc. It was easy for him to defend himself. Why? The one who came after him ran out 150, so he took another 200. To be the biggest thing, while this one was in custody, this one gets from his criminal record of abuse, the one that came to his place. When the authorities saw that it was all pointless, that free people were harassed on Saturdays and Sundays, that they were asking who was and when they were employed, they raised their hands out of everything and saw that it wasn't going. Turns out that first reception was the most legal. So if someone is trying to prevent the abuse of political function, abuse of political domination, then it is found, as a means of banning and preventing abuse, in general criminal regulations. That's what the D.A. needs to apply. Basically, it's in some relationship with people who are involved in politics. On the occasion of a discussion earlier, he says – everyone with each other at the bar. It's the Law of Local Elections, it's a small censorship, and everybody, if they want to make some kind of government, everyone with each other has to be in some kind of coalition. Now it's being attacked. It doesn't need to be attacked. Local self-government is not a government. When they come out and say, we Democrats will not be with these. They just show they're not similar to a multiparty system. There's no exception to the multiparty system. Somewhere with the DSS you'll find an interest in some community, somewhere with the SPS, somewhere with Democrats, but that's not the government, that's the service closest to the citizens. Are we going to split up about whether to pave the left or right street? We can go over the priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19075	Does anyone else want a word under this amendment? No, I don't. We're moving on to the next one. I'm taking a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19076	We continue the work of today's session by discussing the details of item 1 of the agenda of the 11th session. National MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted the amendment to Article 37. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Sarovic. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19077	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to Article 37. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the draft law on state administration was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The amendment requires that the words "five years" in article 3 be replaced by "four years" and that, after that, after the words "director", be replaced by a point and that the rest of the text, which refers to the law governing the position of civil servants, be deleted. Mr. Balinovac is coming, I must admit that after a lot of government representatives, it's really nice to have someone who's read the law, even if they're different in a lot of things. I've certainly had a lot of reflections with Mr. Balinovac, but I think it's a good idea for a once-in-a-lifetime government official to sit here, and secondly, to listen and respond to what the MPs say, whether it's criticism or whether someone supports this law. The SRS's stance to appoint a deputy director in five years and thus overcoming the government's mandate is something that is absolutely unacceptable. If we look at an explanation why this amendment is not accepted, it is the same as the reason for not accepting some other amendments, firstly, it is said that the purpose of this law is to depolitise the state administration. First of all, you have to ask what it means to depolitize the state administration is the main reason? So, we have here in reason, as in other parts of the law, text, it's not clear to us the language in which the law itself is written. It's definitely not Serbian! Did you get lost in translation, if that's what the problems are about, I don't really know? To get back to the point, depolitisation means professionalising the state administration and clearly separating political officials from the so-called. administrative executives and other civil servants. While the equal status of political officials depends on election results and is linked to the government's political fate, civil servants are guaranteed a permanent working relationship, independent of political changes, which is the condition of the continuity of the work of the state administration. This raises the question of where we will draw the line and which officials will have the character of political officials who will have the character of ordinary civil servants. What's the point of this is that you don't want to depolitize in this way, you want to transfer this existing politicization to another government. Because if such a solution were to be accepted, and knowing that you and the directors of special organisations and deputy directors of special organisations would be appointed under this law, given that it has been almost two years since this ruling coalition was established and formed, it is easy to calculate that the mandate of these state officials will not go beyond that year, as you have said, but, practically, two to three years will enter the mandate of the next government. It is also a fact that rarely a government can endure a full term of four years. It is certainly clear to all of you that this current government of Vojislav Kostunica will not be able to do so and that it is far from the age of four, to what extent it has been chosen, then it is completely unclear why you think that some of the people you are now setting, because they are – whether they are prominent in your parties, whether based on this key that you are making around these interpartial divisions, how many places for employment, resistors or anything else, will come, but what is clear, it is clear that these people are not chosen on the basis of expertise. We have a fresh example where Vlajko Senic, deputy minister of trade, tourism and services, is one of the main candidates for the federal defence minister. It shows in the best way how you choose the staff. So it's clear that it's political solutions, that it has nothing to do with expertise, because I guess whoever was good enough barely for the assistant minister of tourism will now be the defence minister. It's clear what you're doing and how you work. So, yes, this argument that this is how you're going to professionalize and depolitize simply doesn't stand. Not only can you not convince us, you cannot convince the citizens of Serbia. It is said to be an important element of depoliticalisation of the state administration, the appointment of civil servants for five years, or at a time that is longer than the government's mandate. It is said that if the highest civil servants were set in time that is equal to the government's mandate, they could succumb to political pressures, tie their fate to the fate of the government and thereby violate their political neutrality. Tell me one name, if there's any directors of a special organization who didn't come here on the political line. Say, one, which you've set based on some criteria of expertise, and I don't know how many organizations there are, but I'm sure you can't count a single one. Then you can't say that you're trying to transfer the government's mandate through these civil servants to another government, that it's something that's good. The most normal situation is that the next government, which comes, will certainly be a government in which the leading role will be played by the SRS or fully made by Serbian radicals, is most normal to bring people who will not be corrupt, who will be professional and who will be able to do their job much better than they do today. It's an absolutely necessary condition to finally get out of this continuous circle of affairs, scandals, interpartisan bickering and other nonsense. Therefore, it is necessary for those who form a government to have opportunities and to have mechanisms in their hands to affect currents and economic, economic and all others in the country. Do you think it's normal that what you're saying is that, another year or two days after a government election, all the jobs are done by officials and officials appointed by the previous government? Do you think the SRS government will have time to wait a year or two days for your staff to expire? This law is completely pointless, i.e. this concrete solution. You won't achieve anything with this. You can say that the mandate of the director of special organizations will be 10 years, but keep in mind, gentlemen, that we or any other government absolutely do not prevent anything from being voted here by another law that will have a different solution and thus undo the negative effects of what you are doing right now. You don't have to fool these people into staying on these jobs for five years. So you need to make a clear distinction between state officials who came to the ministry five, 10 or 15 years ago and those you brought in. Those who have come along the political line can only count and go on the political line. So you can't arrest these people by forcefully recommending them to every next government. In the end, I would also say that the last sentence gives the very essence of your intentions and the real reason for making such a provision. You, after a long list, practically halfway through, list some quasi-registration reasons why you do it, and then say "on the other hand" in the last sentence, which is, of course, the right side "this and every new government prevents it from changing its management structure immediately after its constitution and putting on the position of loyal, not professional officials". Gentlemen, that is the essence of all this. So, you want someone loyal to you in the ministry, where there will be some new ministers, to tie their hands and say, "Here, this government is no good." Your government if it worked, she wouldn't have fallen. If you do well, you will have a mandate for the next four years or for the next 12 years, so you can invariably extend your mandate to all your verified personnel. You just have to let it be perfectly normal for us when we form a government to bring people who are honorable, who are not compromised and who will simply know that they are doing their job properly. The second part of this amendment, which refers to the erasure of Section 3 of the Act on State Administration of Civil Servants – anyone who has graduated from law school, Mr Balinovac, who is here a representative of the Government, certainly is, knows that it is pointless to refer to a law that does not exist in law. So that's some future uncertain fact. This isn't some alleator legal job, this is the National Assembly, and there should be serious people sitting here who need to do serious work. You can't refer to some law that's yet to be passed. Whether that law will be passed or not, that's absolutely irrelevant. Why didn't you first pass a law on state administration and at the first next session, if you have enough majority, pass a law on civil servants. That would be legally valid. This is how you come into a legally completely pointless situation. This is something a law school student wouldn't do. I think this would definitely be an amendment to which the essence of the law would in no way be damaged. It's practically a legal technical order. So this is something that should be acceptable to everything, which has nothing to do with who's from which political party. I call, at least, on those representatives of the ruling coalition that are currently there, to think about this a little bit, to pass on to their colleagues who are not at this point, and then to do something useful for the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19078	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. Is there another group of MPs asking for a word? (No). Thank you for the 38th amendment, submitted by Milovan Radovanovic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is Mr. Stevanovic, then the MP of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19079	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Milovan Radovanovic tabled an amendment to Article 38(3). The bill on state administration, where it says the words "five years" are replaced by "four years" and after the words "director" is replaced by a point. On behalf of the SRS, Kolega Radovanovic wanted to draw attention when it comes to Article 38, which defines the assistant director, where it is said to be one or more assistant directors; if we consider and look at the special organisations involved, these are agencies, secretariats, etc., we have a director, deputy director and assistant director, which means that the assistant director can be one or more. We believe that the inadmissible overcrowding of the bureaucratic administration (in this article, as in this previous one) is an excessive accumulation of bureaucracy. Given all this, it's unnecessary for one director to make five, six or more, and that's inadmissible, especially considering that you, gentlemen, in 2000, when there were 8,000 employees in the state administration, you employ a lot of people, so today you have over 24,000 employees, which means three times as many. Of what means? From this miserable economy of ours. After all, you invented this VAT and when we look at it, even from those drinking merchants you take a dinar to make up for all of these party colleagues you promised. In 2000, you promised to hire over 500,000, and so far you have kept your promise only to your party colleagues, who you have employed by all these services. That's the only thing you've ever respected from all your big promises. There are also talk of indirect and direct organisations and administrations. You have to say it's the same thing. Gentlemen, you're saying it's directly under the authority of the government, and the indirect comes as an economy, public enterprises, corporations, etc. However, it should be pointed out that the government has absolute control in both indirect and direct, which means that this cannot stand in this law and that this is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19080	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, on the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I haven't been able to talk about my previous amendment, so I'm going to take the opportunity to say what I was going to say about this amendment to article 38 since it's the same amendments to two similar members. It simply doesn't make sense and the meaning of what the proposer here states in the law as a new organisation of the state administration in relation to the existing state. So it's a new organization that involves a much bigger state apparatus than we've ever had. It is not clear to me that, apart from the minister of one ministry, we have the Secretary of State, one or more of them, we do not know what the upper limit is, how many there can be, then the assistant ministers, the secretary of the ministry, the special advisers of the minister, the council of ministers. So these are all the organs that are the first co-workers of the minister. In addition, authorities of the administration, which can be inspectorates, directorates and administrations, are educated in the ministry. In addition to these organisations, it is possible to establish, or form, special organisations at the ministry. These special organizations are secretaries and seduces. Please, six or seven years ago, the Ministry of Mining and Energy had about 70 employees. In these 70 employees were also inspection of steam boilers and electrical energy inspection. Now imagine one irresponsible minister who is allowed by the law, and this law allows, to form all these bodies that are listed here, which I have listed. One such small ministry can grow into a holding company, have several hundred employees. I ask you to consider where this is going, who's going to support such a big and big state apparatus. A lot of what's in the law is unnecessary. The promoter should consider changing this in some way, reducing or ultimately withdrawing this law from the procedure to correct and improve. Yet we are not at this level of economic development or standards that we can support such a massive administration, as this law provides. As for Article 38, he is similar to the previous one. It's about the assistant director of a special organization, and yet our remark is the same as with the deputy director. So, again, five years of his term, not four, as we predict, or we want to correct our amendment, because it is logical that the mandates of all these officials are tied to the mandate of the Minister, or Government. That's logic. Please, what you have done here is according to the system, so that we may set up ours, and then you may see what you will do. Let us employ all of our personnel, and then you, when you come to power, see what you will do with yours. This isn't right. Please, there is a difficult situation in Serbia right now. Only people who are politically defined are employed, who are members of your parties who are in the coalition and who are in power. Not on duty, but a simple unskilled worker can't get a job unless he's a member of one of your parties. And you're talking about depoliticization. There's no depoliticization. This is just a wish for someone to settle in and stay there. Well, now, look, we've had a few governments in the last four or five years, so they've all set up their personnel. How long? There's no more room! There's nowhere to go! Also, here you are again referring to the law governing the position of officials. It's a law on civil servants, which hasn't been adopted yet, and it's quite declassified to mention it in this law. You can't prescribe and edit something like this under some law that's still in the form of a proposal that hasn't been adopted, that de facto doesn't exist. If you've already had such an idea, then you should have passed that law first, and then you should have referred to it in this law that you're proposing here. That's the essence of all our objections. Now I would have used only a few minutes since the chairman of the assembly was Mr. President, a few days ago I asked a question again why I didn't get an answer to the parliamentary question I asked 45 days ago. On July 21st, I asked four parliamentary questions related to the Tax Administration in Uzic. A few days ago, when I was chaired by Mr. Angelkovic, I ured to have an answer delivered to me, so since the business time was up until today I didn't get that answer. Please, Mr. Chairman, who chaired the presidency when I asked questions to intervene with the finance minister, who is normally in charge and to whom questions are addressed, to get answers to four parliamentary questions as soon as possible, and they are related to the Tax Administration in Uzica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19082	First of all, I'd like to answer that. gave an explanation. Yeah, I got your question and I acted on my own, not to intervene because I didn't do it, but I ordered the Ministry of Finance, as president of the Assembly to deliver the answer, because just for a time during vacation it wasn't done at all, but we're not going to accept that kind of justification. The questions must be answered. You'll get an answer. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a number of times already known warning by members of the SRS, MPs, to the fact that a law has not yet been adopted is being mentioned. So, in the legal process, in legal traffic, only laws can be passed. By the way, there's nothing. But let's get back to that thesis that I've been explaining my amendment to, which is, you're making huge bureaucratic apparatus out of the ministries. I'm going to ask one of the SRS MPs to count, and I'm going to count them. So, like this -- the minister, that's one -- he can have one or more state secretaries, or vice presidents, and he can have one or more assistants. In practice and by 12 assistants in one ministry. In addition, there are secretaries of the ministry, and special advisers of the minister, who must not be more than three, and then have the council of ministers as an advisory body. They didn't write as many here as they wanted, so they could have unlimited numbers. Then there are bodies in the composition – the director of the body in the composition, that's one, so the director can have one or more assistant directors, and then we get to the special organisations, (Article 34) And these are the secretariats and the delusions. The law can also educate special organizations with a different name. Well, then you have a director of this special organization, so this director has one deputy, and a special organization can have one or more assistant directors, and while we get to the county, you hire everyone who's voted for you since 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Serbia nothing works except the ministries, no one can do anything except the ministry's work, no one receives a salary for several months, except that the ministries receive regular salaries and in Serbia, the ministries have been red taped to the point where the walls start slowly to give way to their number!- I'm sorry. I think it's about time you took your mind off it and cut this down. And when it comes to the districts, because we just got to them, I'll talk about it with some next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19084	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Cevrovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19085	And this article refers to a chapter that is now called the Management District. I'm saying this more at first, possibly, because of the new constitution that's being passed. Something similar should be predicted as a constitutional category, because the environments in the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are not foreseen. Then he resorts to this and similar solutions. It's called the county somewhere. I'm not getting into those details. As you can see, we are not in principle opposed to this idea, because there are so-called. DETAILED state affairs, which can only be done in a given area or in certain areas, since it is impossible to do so in the ministry's headquarters. There's some excuse. However, this member refers to the head of the management district. Right now, let me tell you what our intervention we're looking for with the amendment is looking at. It is, in paragraph 3, that this five-year term is also replaced by a four-year term and standard, to delete this text after the word "government", "stuck" is replaced by "point". So the rest of the text is deleted, according to our amendments so far. What's this all about? We have been in practice since 1992 and 1993, since this idea with the districts started, the county's chiefs are making a decision by the government, that the government is establishing an organisation, etc. But the government is setting up the district chief, if I may say so, my men. Who are these people? These were once the chairmans of the SPS district board, and later some of the more visible people of the ruling party. At a time when radicals were in power, no district chief was a radical, but that's not important for this story. Later, after October 5th, also, some mathematics was inside DOS. There's probably a similar math today, but what's indisputable with the district chief, that's, above all, a political figure. The parties thus meet some of their human needs and set up district chiefs. The district is designed as a place where ministries dislocate their special organisational units and services. You say here that in the future it should be called "round" etc. It's usually the departments of some ministry. What departments used this right? First of all, those ministries that had inspection services in their composition. A little widespread was the time when it was called, the Ministry of Urban Affairs and Construction Relations, that the second-degree procedure would be at the district level, not to go towards the ministry. Then I have to ask a question. There was a kind of difference between the ministries, so the organization units of the finance ministry, primarily the tax administration, as if they were somehow out of the county, as an independent. By the logic of things, the interior secretariats are also the organisation units of the interior ministry, which were on the county territory, but were away from the county chief. Practice has shown that every district chief tends to make his own empire. You can't stop that with a solution like this. Even if you write that it is certainly a political figure, it has a five-year mandate and that you think that it does not share the fate of the government, the political destiny of the government, you have made a terrible mistake at first. Because every new government, the new composition of the government, so probably the third measure to be brought to the government, means the first measure of what happens in the ministry, the second measure of a republican important institution, the third measure is to change the county's chiefs – that's certainly the measure. The county administration, what's regulated by this law, these are some administrative and technical affairs that might, perhaps, be common to the organisational units of the ministries that have detached their workers for a certain part of the business, they are regulated by the ministry by its instruments of organisation and systemization. The ministry is setting up department, inspection and other bodies. The district chief appears as something that needs to unite work. Now the question is, what can it unite, when the work of the district units of different ministries is different? What would he unite? What is the purpose of his existence? There's no such thing as administrative. You cannot regulate his administrative function with a regulation. Its administrative function can be regulated by law, and in order to regulate it by law, you must have some constitutional authority, and constitutional authority does not exist. So in an existing system with a constitution like this, its function is, first of all, political, no matter how hard we are here with certain provisions and inserting some things that have touch points with the state administration. His political function cannot be avoided, first of all. How do some county chiefs feel about that? There are MPs here who used to be district chiefs, so they call me what, while I was a minister, I didn't let them get involved in the business. Because if the district chief interferes with the inspection affairs of one ministry, then there is nothing from the inspection, then there is no uniform application of the rules throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. So our amendment refers to something concrete, which concerns the mandate. We have managed to sort out the issue of mandates with a number of amendments in some way to convince MPs, the government and the public that what you insist on, at the five-year term of office, is not an act of depoliticalisation, because this is impossible to depolitise, such a district chief in the existing system. I believe you need to reconsider whether to generally adopt all our amendments, because they make up one whole. There are no mechanisms here to prevent the district chief from misusing the detachable authorities of the state administration on a specific territory. I'd rather insist that you put in some of the provisions that forbid it. You have provisions here that forbid it. You have provisions that speak of the ministry's independence, that the organisation unit within the ministry, to submit to the ministry, but the practice is different. If the departments are fighting for that independence, then there's a reaction from the county chief, who says: so what am I here in the county? With these 15 employees, the Ministry of Labour, with these 15 departments of commerce, with these 200 Ministry of Finance, with these 300-400 police departments. Where am I? Who am I the boss here? So at first I said, if something is coming up with the districts in the future, then take care when it comes to the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is it a variant that all first-degree procedures are given to the district, first-degree procedures from the domain, to use a new term, where the state government is concerned, so that the second-degree procedure goes towards the ministry, but then it has a place to do so and has some justification. In order for this to happen, the Constitution must be changed, and we are all in agreement. So this is how you go with the district chief, we're just contesting your mandate. We draw attention that it is still a political function. Don't lose anything by adopting this amendment, but consider our amendments as one whole. Probably in some composition with clear constitutional norms, which define what political personalities are, who are changing, how they change, etc.—there may be ways and justifications to implement the concept of depolitisation of the state administration. Of course, we're all into depolitizing the state administration, but some people who work at the state administration are impossible to be depolitized, like assistants, secretaries, now this new secretary of state or the head of the county. No, the district chief's a political figure. He doesn't sign any administrative decisions. He's not running any proceedings. The body that he represents is not an organ. He does not run the administrative procedure, so he is something that the practice required that there should be, because the link between the inspection bodies on the ground and the ministries is, but with the risk that the political function of the district chief can abuse all state institutions. In that sense, I propose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19086	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19087	The article 44 has the title – The internal arrangements of the authorities of the state administration and the subtitle – the Act on Internal Planning and Systematization of Jobs. We ask the amendment to add the words "act of" to the internal arrangement to the 2nd post-editation, and then there should be an act of systemization. It's two different acts. We insist that these be two different acts, how the ministry will be organised and what will be systemised in the ministry as a job. In all these acts and in all of these provisions where some personal solutions are spoken of in some way, there is one big problem, whether something is made for work or for face. If something is made for work, then it indicates what business is, which is the size of the job, and it concludes on the basis of how many faces it takes to do something. It became almost a practice for us to make an organization according to our faces. So it's a systematization act. Paragraph 3 also adds the same amendment after Article 3, which reads as follows: "The act on the internal arrangement set out in Articles 2 and 3 of this article is published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It would be good for the citizens of Serbia to know exactly how dimensioned a particular ministry is, how many employees there are, to understand how much it costs, because I must tell you, here at the beginning you said, in the authorities of the state administration, and now I am going back to it again, that the authorities of the state administration are: the ministries, the directorates, the inspectorates, the administrations, and then you stated that under this term, I quote you to Article 4 and Article 1 of the State Administration and the Ministry, the authorities of the administration of the ministries and the special organisation, means only this category in Article 1(2) to see what that number is. You recently had an organisational and systematic overhaul of the ministries based on a regulation. The government has concluded that 10% should be reduced. It doesn't matter the percentage, it might have been less or more, but the government said it should be reduced. Why? We're a little busy with that. Those who have a few years before retirement, we pay, just get out. What are we gonna do? We'll take some of the others. Not so much, but slightly less, so they're redeployed workers from one job to another, and in some ministries there's been open lobbying, you join and you stay. If you don't join in, we're conducting a transformation, we're putting something on behalf of the social program, but just to get rid of people. This is how, when you publish an organization and when you see exactly how many and how organized the ministry is, the publication of an organization of a ministry of administration or a special organisation is necessary for citizens to know who to turn to. We insist there are two acts. One to see the organization structure of the ministry. I just remind you, MPs of the majority, that when the Ministry Act was passed, that is, when it changed several times, there is a huge lack of that law that we do not have an organisational scheme of the ministry, not only in terms of administration, but in terms of sectors, departments, how grouped businesses are according to certain sectors within the ministry. You're saying it should be transparent, public, available to the public. Then I don't see why these amendments wouldn't be accepted, a team before that amendment follows this path that you're promoting to this article 44. I think the government's representatives can adopt this without any trouble.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19088	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19089	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was expected that the new state administration law would reduce one reduction and reduce the number of officials in the Republic of Serbia. But what happened? Since 2000, we've had 9,000 government officials. We now have 30,000 civil servants. This affects the level of taxes, taxpayers, and affects all the taxes citizens need to set aside in the state register. As for individual ministries, MP Markovic pointed out, explained and cited a number of institutions that were so far unknown in Serbia and in our republic, and I will mention that Momir Markovic, of course, the SRS MP, said and pointed out, explained and specified all those functions that were not yet known in Serbia. He listed numerous assistants, advisors, and I would only point out that the Ministry of Labour, as far as I know, has nine assistants. Does this state need nine ministerial assistants in that vault? I think Serbian radicals also believe that it is one wasteful and irresponsible behavior, that at all costs people are hired where they are not needed. We've got government officials and bureaucracy inflation. As a result, the SRS believes that all these new institutions, including assistants, advisers, state secretaries, etc., it is all absolute at this time for the state too bulky. As for the amendment to Article 51. – The bill suggests that the minister who manages the organisational units can supervise and control the work of individual organisational units. We believe not that he can, but the minister is the one to whom the legislator gives the right and norms and sets out the norms and prescribes that the minister determines, not that he can, but determines which organisational units he will control. Whether these are secretariats, whether it's an office, a directorate, it's irrelevant, but it's important to determine which minister the authority will control, i.e. which organisational unit; whether the Secretariat, whether or not the Bureau, whether or not the Directorate, etc. What is visible in this law is that too many opportunities are given to form, within ministries and other organisational units, other bodies. There's no limit. So there's no way to organize a single working body. Let's just say, at the Ministry of Finance, the Property Directorate or the Bureau or the Secretariat. So, we think it is necessary that this is more precisely normised and determined, so that the minister may also behave responsibly and have authority and be given the task and determine that he is in control and supervision of certain organisational units.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19090	Anyone else on the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On the title above the article 63 and on Article 63, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19091	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will leave very briefly, so that I may leave time for the MP Krasic to come out after this amendment. I just wanted a few things to elaborate. First of all, you know how much the coordination bodies cost us, and you know the effect of those so-called. coordination bodies. We had a co-ordination body, we have it still, for Kosovo and Metohija and for southern Serbia. You couldn't boast of the work of the president of the co-ordination body of Neboja Covic. Now that Nebojsa Covic has gone into opposition, suddenly many things, related to the Co-ordination Body, float to the surface, many on the edge of the law or on the other side of the law. You know that this was the Co-ordination Body that provided the first Democratic Alternative, and after the SDP, when this wedding happened between him and Orlic, in every village, an office equipped with computers, first Democratic Alternatives, and now they've changed the mark in front of the door, and now it's the SDP. So much in total and the benefits of the co-ordination body were enjoyed by citizens from southern Serbia, from these three municipalities threatened by Shipar terrorism and so many Serbian citizens, members of Serbian and other non-Albanian nations had in Kosovo and Metohija. Had it not been for their self-organization, as for Nebojska Covic and his Co-ordination Body, these Serbs would have long been either killed or expelled to the Republic of Serbia. When you look at article 63 and article 65, you'll see that these things are either intertwined or this is copied or you plan this, some other organizations, in Article 65, common bodies, groups, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS only tried to count to the county, when I was counting here how bureaucratic it is, believe it didn't work. We're going to have to get at least a digitron next time and figure out how much you're going to increase bureaucratic machinery in each ministry if this law is passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19092	The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19093	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on State Administration, by proposing that the rubrum or the title above Article 63 be deleted and that Article 63 be deleted as a whole. I will quote him: "The government can set up coordination bodies to direct certain transactions from the work of several authorities of the state administration. The government also determines the tasks of the co-ordination body, the management of the co-ordination body and all other issues related to the work of the co-ordination bodies." Therefore, the proposed member provides that the government shall establish coordination bodies to carry out certain tasks from the work of the state administration. I believe that the 63rd member is completely out of line, because he's a 65. The draft law accurately regulates the direction of certain transactions from the work of several administration bodies, so there is no need for the establishment of coordination bodies. That's why I think this amendment of mine is justified, so I suggest you adopt it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19094	Here you go, Mr. Krasic, about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19095	My predecessors tied the term "co-ordination body" to Nebojsa Covic and what he ran. However, this term also means broader, means the possibility that the government forms within the government a co-ordination body, which is a practice long ago, of different composition, of several ministers or of several ministries, assistants, secretaries and other authorised representatives of the ministry, where they co-ordinate and on the co-ordination board agree that some things will be done from the authority of government and ministries. I must immediately tell you that we are against such forms of co-operation and joint doing of business by several ministries, because, as a rule, either the minister or one of the vice-presidents, if there are more vice-presidents, since there is only one now, probably one of the ministers is in charge, and then, practically, he is influencing the performance of several ministries. These are the co-ordination boards, the co-ordination bodies, they can have different names. It doesn't have to be a committee, body, commission or coordination. It used to be – one vice president is in charge, so he has four or five ministers or all the officials gathered together, so the government has concluded that it should and should, and then what the vice president said has more importance than the Constitution, the law and anything. If the government has the need to regulate the way of operational co-operation between several ministries, then it has regulated its rules of procedure, probably and now there are three committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs and Finance, the Committee on State Administration, and I think it is the Committee on Social Action. Maybe she's a different organization now. That these committees, not only have the role of permissive power for the draft acts until they reach the government, but to include something called operational co-operation, and then, Maltene, most of the ministries are represented in one or more committees, where these committees are already institutions within the government, where the government is pursuing a policy to coordinate work, etc. But to form special coordination bodies, the SRS is against, we are particularly opposed to putting it into this law, because the co-ordination body, as an organ or as an institution or as an option, is not foreseen by any material regulation. In some of the material regulations in the administrative area, it can stand – with the agreement of the ministry or a common two ministries. These things don't require a co-ordination body. So my predecessors were talking about a clean co-ordination body that connects to Covic – when it's hard, etc. I'm talking about operational coordination bodies that are formed daily by the government; two or three ministries, since it's similar, etc. – as possible to create a co-ordination body for Medi, Jasa Tomic etc. This government can regulate within its existing organisation, by being independent, to determine its organisation and its professional services and means of co-operation, through its own committees that exist in the government itself. This means that you are potential, in a variant where there are several vice presidents, one vice president of them, or each of them for other areas. It is inevitably putting pressure on the competent ministries and questioning their independence and legality. Often there are attitudes, some of them, that affect the employees of a particular ministry how they apply their rules. It's dangerous. If you want to edit the state administration, if you want to regulate the relationship between the government and the ministries, if you want to arrange co-operation between several ministries, then don't make co-ordination bodies undefined. They're, by nature, undefined, you must know that. You can't define them at all. There is always some predominance and there is always a higher interest that states that some ministry will apply its regulation, and they are obliged under the Constitution and the law to apply the regulation independently, independently and impartially. There's a fear of co-ordination. As for this matter, which my predecessors talked about, about Kosovo and Metohija, there were different ideas about how this can be solved – whether the special ministry, the special committee within the government, where some coordination, agreement, etc. But what is important, that part of the organisation must be unique, as for the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. You unconsciously, when you created the Coordination Center, you showed that it was no longer a territory. Why would something special be organized there? You could, within the framework of the government, create a committee for Kosovo and Metohija, where the work of the ministries is agreed, what could be common on the ground, where possible, etc. But with us in Serbia, everyone loves the function, so they make co-ordination bodies to coordinate. Coordinating what? Then it happens to us to coordinate everyone where it gets to. You know what Dinkic's like, just tell him, he's gone, six ministries of outlines, and now he wants the army wiped out. Keep in mind, don't put in such a provision, because someone will call on this provision which essentially means nothing, and it will be so authoritatively called that it gives him the right to tell the ministries and people who have been working for 20 years how to apply which member of the law. Today we tried to tell you that there are many more provisions, and that is why we have submitted these amendments to distract you. So there's a much greater danger of abuse than anything positive that could happen if these provisions were installed as you suggested. In that sense, we need to interpret these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19096	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 66th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 69th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 77th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19097	Ladies and gentlemen, here's another amendment for which there really is not a single valid reason why a government official did not accept it, and I hope that you in the voting day will be more serious than a fellow Balinian who represents the Government here, who has not accepted a truly highly explained and fully justified amendment. What's this about? In Article 77. The proposal for a law on state administration is said to be the responsibility of the state administration to inform the public of their work through public information means and in another appropriate way. The staff authorised to prepare information and information relating to the notification of the public shall be responsible for their accuracy and timelyity. I don't know if you feel that this member is incomplete, that the way he's formulated means nothing, because no one has any responsibility unless this member is applied. For this reason, and in this regard, counterpart Milorad Mircic submitted an amendment and said that at the end of Article 1 which said: "The public administrations are obliged to inform the public of their work through public information funds and in another appropriate way", after this, (colon Mircic suggested) that words be added – "and the funds of public information financed mainly from the budget are obliged to pass on those notices to the public". Is there anything more logical and normal than this proposal? So we didn't even go with a commitment to all the means of information, but according to those that are mainly or completely financed from the budget, it's quite normal and acceptable. Why doesn't the government accept this amendment? According to the Public Information Act, the government says, the state can neither directly nor indirectly be the founder of public ballots, as the founder of the public vote cannot be a legal person who is in the predominantly state-owned or financed from public revenues. Do you see the government lying to us here? This is just not true. Or further, he says, "The Law on Broadcasting has been prescribed that public broadcasting service providers are a republican and regional broadcasting facility." It also regulates the achievement of general interest in the field of public broadcasting services, public broadcasting service obligations in the achievement of general interest, as well as sources of funding. In Section 3 of its reasoning, the government said: "The funds from the budget are not foreseen in any law as sources of funding of public votes." Did we talk here about the Republic budget and did we adopt that Republic budget? Does the government think that people's MPs are short-minded, half-witted? Does the government think people's MPs are short-minded, half-witted, what? It is indeed inadmissible that the government, through its proposals, is insulting the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia who are monitoring the work of this parliament. Well, did we define in the budget a certain amount of RTS funds or not? Have we talked here, when it comes to amendments to the Law on Public Information and the Law on Radio Diffusion, and especially to colleagues from local self-government, in which the funds of local self-government are used for public information means, in which all the means are misused. How much of these funds are allocated from local self-government for public information, for local television and radio stations. You know that you have adopted amendments to both laws, the Law on Public Information and the Law on Radio-Difusion, precisely to allow your party comrades, who are in the local government, to continue to allow and to implement your party's policy by means of citizens. We talked about it. Even the competent minister for the area, the culture minister, didn't very much contradict those objections, because the man is fully aware that we were right when we said that. Probably, that the government's representative is here to explain to me that local self-governments are not being financed from the budget, however, something that is not true, and the fact that this article of the 77th Law, which Milorad Mircic and the amendment intervened on, is talking about – yes, at least those funds that citizens give to finance public information funds, are in that part controlled and directed to what is the interest of citizens, which is to be properly informed about the work of the government's authorities, i.e. the work of local self-government units. That is why we have intervened in the second position – that employees who are authorised to prepare information and information related to the notification of the public, we have also said the means of public information, are responsible for their accuracy and timelyity. So, I don't see in this argument of the government either, and you heard earlier, that there is one single argument that would convince us from the SRS that maybe we shouldn't insist on this amendment, and I believe that neither of you who are going to vote for this bill, this argument from the Government has convinced us that the government is right to not accept this amendment. I don't know if it's too much to say that this amendment really doesn't touch the government of the Republic of Serbia's concept approach when it comes to the organisation of the state administration, but this is simply an addition to something the government left out. So, in no way can the government be threatened by what it wanted with this law, but this article 77 can be applicable and it really makes sense as well as an amendment solution. Without it, Mr. Balinovac, without what we have predicted in Mr. Mircic's amendment, there is no point in Article 77. Delete that member or accept the amendment of Milorad Mircic, that this member would indeed be applicable and that someone would have both obligations and responsibilities when it comes to informing the public about the work of the authorities of the state administration. Don't leave it to the editors in charge. Tie 'em up. They're spending people's money. They spend the money on these citizens, so at least let us make sure in this part that they inform the citizens in the right way, that we have normal news on the first RTS programme, and not that what is really of interest to the citizens of Serbia, starts with this Parliament and beyond, that there should be 12 news in the shock log. So once again, Mr. Balinovac, accept this amendment. If you won't do it then I invite my colleagues to do it in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19098	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On the title above Article 79 and Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19099	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to the Law on State Administration, to Article 79, which is contained in Chapter 9 where the public works and the relationship between the state authorities and the citizens of Serbia are spoken of, of course. First of all, I would tell the Government's representative, Mr. Balinovac, that during the debate on the Civil Protection Act, they felt the need to pass this law as if the civil servants you spoke of were all affirmative would not do their job at all, but would do it more criminally than they can and can? But to return to article 79 and my amendment. (Glass: there is no chairman. All right, at this point, no one is chairing the National Assembly, but it won't bother me to give a brief explanation about the amendment I submitted. I hope the Government's representative accepts this amendment. Above article 79 stands the title – Administrative Days. I have respected all the suggestions and suggestions of the Government's representatives during the principle debate on this agenda point, what kind of experts should write the laws, but imagine if in Loznica, that's where these administrative days could be done, it would be -- administrative days will be on Thursdays, I guess only a few experts who follow administrative law would know what it is, and most of those who need to exercise some of their rights wouldn't know what it means. That is why I suggested that the title above article 79 be changed and that it be said: "Doing jobs outside the seat of the state authority", which would be quite acceptable for the SRS as an amendment promoter, and for all citizens to whom this member might apply. Then, in article 79, it reads: "The authorities of the state administration can do certain jobs in a place outside their headquarters and the headquarters of the unit area, in the administrative days." That's attitude one. In point 2. - "The business undertaken in the administrative days and time and place of maintenance of administrative days shall be determined by the Head of State Administration." In the last, third attitude, it is said: "Government days are advertised in the venues." We have suggested that a member of the 79th change and that it reads: "State administrations can do certain jobs in a place outside of their headquarters and the headquarters of a regional unit". The bill states that the ad hoc authority's elder assesses when and where administrative days should be done, and we suggest that the body's elders look at the possibilities and needs of the citizens that would be present and determine the place where jobs outside the seat will be done, that it be a permanent and permanent solution. That would be the right way to provide protection. This proposal should go to the citizens' meeting, so I suggest that the government's representative accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19100	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. I'm obliged to give a notice. I went out and checked, because of the schedule of your time, so, as we announced before noon, since we're going to continue to consider this point, it's going to be a law on officials, but we're going to continue no later than 21,00 hours, because we've only managed to move from one program to another part of the obligations that television has made. So by 9:00 if we don't finish, then we're gonna have to hang up, so schedule your time on that. I thank the RTS that managed to combine this. National MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic submitted to the 80th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. National MP Milan Stanimirovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of the 80s be added after article 80. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (From Zoran Balinovac: We accept Mr. Krstin's amendment to Article 85) Proposer representative, Mr. Zoran Balinovac accepts Mr. Krstin's amendment to Article 85. Thank you. You have another amendment. National MP Marko Krstin also submitted an amendment with an amendment, proposing that a new member of 92 be added after article 92. (From Zoran Balinovac: We accept Mr. Krstin's amendment to Article 92) Proposer representative, Mr Zoran Balinovac accepts Mr Krstin's amendment to Article 92. So both amendments have been accepted. Since we have completed the examination of the bill's proposal in particular, whether the representative of the proposing Zoran Balinovac, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, wants a final word on the basis of Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19101	Thank you, Mr. President. I would first like to thank the MPs for the debate, both in principle and in detail, because no one has a monopoly on the truth and no one has a monopoly on knowledge, so, of course, neither does the government. Discussing all these issues, many things have become clearer, and many things have become clearer for us in government as well. I wanted to finish my review in brief on the draft law on state administration. During the debate, it seemed to me that the mixing of what lawyers call "de lege lata" and "de lege pherenda", a state as it is now and a state as it should be in the future. The current state, is the state of absolutely normative state, is the state of absolute domination of political in the establishment of state leaders. It is the present state and many arguments that speak against the state we want to establish this law were based on the present state. However, the concept of the new law is to change the current situation and, as I have repeatedly said, to the advantage and advantage of each choice of state officials to experts and experts, not to politicians and politicians, rather than to the personnel lists, which parties deliver and place on high-ranking members, that those who are professional, whose expertise is being checked by a competition that is public, in competition rules which will be, which are quite clear with the right, those who are not placed in place, on administrative dispute, on judicial protection. These are quite clear and purely laid out rules. I'm talking about the bill. The current situation is not satisfactory. If it pleases, we wouldn't write this bill. It is argued that the government wants to bring itself to life artificially, to extend its life by taking advantage of the bill if it grows into the law and puts it in the guiding places of so-called. to de facto burden the next government with libel and extend its age beyond a reasonable legal deadline. I have to say, that's not true. The transitional and final provisions governing the issue of appointments, starting with ministerial assistants and beyond, provide for clear rules of play. Assistant ministers who will be given the term of office for five years, as well as other officials, who are named, will be appointed after a public competition. So the government will not appoint ministerial assistants according to current criteria, according to political criteria, and then appoint them a mandate for five years. No, I don't. The High Official Council will appoint a competition commission. Rules will be laid down for the competition. It will be announced which abilities, skills and skills are required of the candidates. The necessary criteria will be laid down, which must be met in order to get past what is now in fashion, the government will appoint new assistant ministers and other officials, whose function has been depolitised. What I'm trying to say is, this government, by the time it's first laid down by the rules on civil servants and the laws on state administration, when that first appointment is carried out, will comply with the rules of depolitisation and by the depolitical rules of the law. So there's no way that the government can put some of its people in line with political criteria and political criteria and design its own life after life, as I would say. And there was this, uh, mistrust, that some things could be depolitized at all. This reminds us of a book that, in its own time, caused the controversy of Esad Cimic: "Policy as Fate". Politics is much less fate in the authorities of the state administration, than it seems at that moment with shifts of power, which will be increasingly common, we will get used to how we need experts and, above all, for the sake of the state, and then, why not say, and for ministers and governments, because every good effect of experts is attributed to the government. It was a concern that this law would increase the administration. That's really not true. Here's why it's not true. Of all the positions the law provides, starting from the secretary of state to the lowest, which would, for example, be the assistant director of the administration's body within the ministry, there are only two that are mandatory. This is the assistant minister and assistant director in a special organization. So no ministry has to have a secretary of state, no ministry has to have a ministry secretary, no ministry has to have a deputy director of a special organisation, and that simply depends on the concept of the ministry's work. What I'm saying is that the number of mandatory positions of this law is reduced in relation to the number of mandatory positions provided for by the existing law. When the number of positions, for which the payment of the most money is reduced, is allocated from the budget, it is so much more logical that this law should bring less expenditure. So, any fear of the awakening of the administration, which could be challenged by this law, is absolutely unfounded. As for the questions raised here, so-called questions. The federalisation of the ministry, which is objecting to the current government, usually says the ministry is under the control of only one political party, I am talking about the current government's calling, and thus de facto Serbia is divided into feeds. Such an argument seems a little strange and unnatural when viewed from another point of view. Those who object to such a concept say that in a hypothesis that the minister from party A, the deputy minister should be from party B. Since the coalition has three partners, I suppose there should be two deputy ministers, but nothing more than the difference between the minister and the deputy minister in terms of party membership cannot tear up the ministry. The deputy minister is not here to control the minister, so whatever political party he's from. The deputy minister is here to carry out the minister's duties. Therefore, an idea based on which the so-called "respect" is respected. The feudalization of the ministries is based, in fact, on the concept that the minister should have a guardian. However, the minister's position is such that it excludes any guard and is based on another concept, that each ministry must be a charrological, political-charolic and consisting of members of different political parties, which absolutely leads to the predominance of the political factor in setting within the ministries, unlike professional factors. If one minister is now a member of a coalition party in the government, that does not mean that his assistants are members of the party. With what we've heard here as a criticism of the government, it would mean that the assistant seats would be divided by proportions and, of course, would open the doors wide open for the entry of incompetents into the state administration. I'm just going to say a little bit more about the co-ordination bodies, which have been criticised. The co-ordination body is set up by the government and they are a way to simply direct and coordinate jobs that are within the scope of several ministries. They must and should represent a strong factor in unifying the ministry's work. By completing this debate, I would really like to thank the MPs once again for the constructive discussion, for the criticisms, the arguments and those who may have had a weaker argument and to express simply one regret over the amendment spoken by Mrs Radet, which concerns Mr Mircic's amendment on the obligation that the public notice funds financed from the budget be made public by statements from the authorities of the state administration. There is nothing we can do about it because under the Public Information Act, there is no provision for any public information to be financed from the budget, and the financing of RTS from the budget is just finishing its last days, because as we know, a TV subscription has been introduced. So, in addition to our best intentions and our agreement with the idea of the amendment promoters, we are unable to accept it because it would collidate with other regulations. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19102	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE CIVIL SERVANTS You have received amendments submitted at the bill by the MPs: Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović, Petar Cvetković, Natasa Jovanovic, Branislav Stevanović, Darko Glišić, Dragan Živović, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Djordjevic, Bozidar Koprivica, Petar Jojić, Milorad Buha, Milovanovic, Vojislav Milajić, Milan Stević, Sreto Perić, Nemanja Sarović, Mita Avramov, Ljubomir Kragović, Zoran Antic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Milorad Mirković, Momira Marković, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Ivan Radić, Zlatko Radić, Mileta Posurica, Mitjavrović, Stevrjanjevrjanjić, Stević, Mirić, Mirjanjić and Mirjanjić, Imić. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. The amendment was written by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović to the title after Article 6 and the new member of the 6a, to Article 24, to the title after Article 24a, to the title above Articles 25 and 25 and to Articles 26, 27 and 30 and Zarko Obradović to Articles 60, 128 and 135. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19103	Article 2 The bill practically introduces something new in our terminology, so there is a division among civil servants. State officials and tenants. The undersigned shall be the person whose place of work consists of the accompanying technical services in the national authority. The plumber, the locksmith, the one who works on the copy machine, etc. In the framework of civil servants later in the provisions, you will see that this is a division by position and place of execution. There is a senior advisor, an independent advisor, a counselor, a junior advisor, a associate, a junior associate, a peer, a reference officer and a life-long younger reference officer. The tenants are getting away with it the other way around. I think that so far in our regulations it has been divided into auxiliary workers and those workers working on administrative procedure, so those working in the administrative procedure have been authorized by the officials to conduct the procedure and I think that division is much better than this, because they are all civil servants. As far as these executive posts are concerned, the existing nomenclature and division of the associate, advisor, special advisor and so on, and so on, the amendment to Article 2, we're just asking that the word "or" be replaced by the word "and" is aware that both, practically, it means the same thing because such a concept of this sentence. In paragraph 1, an attempt is made to define what is a civil servant, a person whose place of work consists of the work of a state administration body, courts, public prosecutor's office, the republican public defender's office, the service of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, the department of which is elected by the National Assembly or associated general legal, information and material-financial, accounting and administrative affairs. It's either put in here or it's an alternative, and we think it's supposed to be a list. We are aware that this amendment does not matter because in one interpretation this or it can be interpreted as, as a follow-up, we express our dissatisfaction with the creation of this division of a civil servant. State officials should be divided primarily by whether they are carrying out certain actions, whether they are conducting administrative proceedings, whether they are authorised to apply the law, and when it comes to a special procedure, when it comes to a shortened procedure, to assess the application, because these officials need to meet certain requirements regarding qualification, professional examination, working experience, so that they can successfully implement the law. There's a different division here now. She may be a little archaic, she can make a mistake, one of them's civil servants, the other's tenants. Perhaps this termological division can influence something different, some division must exist, but essentially they are all civil servants and civil servants should be divided into those who apply the general administrative procedure, apply the laws, work on law enforcement and should be divided into those who do not carry out the administrative procedure. In the context of a non-administrative procedure, some divisions are possible, but not such a sharp and rough division: a civil servant – a tenant, a team before we have these positions with a civil servant. I'll tell you later about you making a big mistake. How is it possible to set up on the basis of a competition? On the basis of the competition, someone is elected or appointed, and it's always a no-competition. I don't care if that's the case. In our dictionary, the word "position" just means that. Look at any of our regulations, it is not said that a competition is being called to set someone up, but in the law clearly stands – a competition for choice or appointment is being called, not a contest for appointment. The installation contains the autonomous will of the one who sets it, so that it can work independently according to its criteria. You now have a situation where the congregation of the municipality chooses, resolves and sets up, including the "bid" and the "name" and the "sets" are conducted not by competition, but by inter-party mathematics. And you've been coming up with the government going through that system – don't ask me from the DSS, that's G17 plus. So the amendment is significant, it doesn't change any more, it can be interpreted one way or another, but we deliberately filed it to make this difference that we think should be based on something else. Who's the official face of the government's authority? That's where you're looking. The authorised person of the Authority of the Government shall be authorised to apply the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Rules of Procedure, whether or not he prescribes it, the draft solution, so as to deliver it to the Head of the Authority, or to the Minister or to anyone else who is also authorised. This division for us is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19104	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19105	Before we go into the meaning of legal-technical terms such as appointment, appointment, choice, etc., I would just like to say something, given the nature of this amendment, because it challenges the entire concept of it at a small door. What's a civil servant? A civil servant is a person who has a special public-law relationship with the state. This particularity of the public-law relationship stems from the nature of the state. What's a janitor? The undersigned is a person who is not in a public-law relationship with the state. The tenant is a person who can do all kinds of work in the state administration and other state bodies everywhere. As you can be a cafe cook at a private company, so you can also be a coffee cook at the ministry. As you can be an assistant worker at a private company, so you can be in the ministry. Therefore, the basic difference between the officials and the tenants is in the nature of their commitment to the state and in particular. While the jobs done by the tenants are also possible in the private sector, those jobs done by civil servants, as a rule, are almost impossible in the private sector. It further draws the difference in their legal position. A special regime shall apply to civil servants, to the undersigneds of the general regime on working relations, if the law on civil servants is not otherwise prescribed. The amendment was meant to turn one "or" into "i." We have called civil servants persons whose place of work consists of business from the work of the State Administration's body, should not be slow what it means, or of business related to the work of the State Administration's body, as regards general, legal, informative, material-financed. So, the concept of officials enters both the same and the other, and the IT engineer who works at the Justice Ministry and the lawyer who works at the Justice Department. What is proposed by the proposed amendment? It is proposed that only those who accumulate, combine both the first and second properties enter into the concept of officials, so that, consistent with this case I pointed out, the civil servant could be just a lawyer who is a single-time informer, only a lawyer who understands finance, etc. So it's very serious, I must say, a mistake in the amendment, which would very much narrow down the number of civil servants. It has been said that the distinction should be made between civil servants who are authorised to conduct administrative proceedings and others, that these should be primary and these appear secondary. Well, it's not management of the administration's only business. There are other jobs, such as making regulations, preparing regulations, performing administrative actions, supervision, etc. So, to build a graduation among civil servants based on only one important, but on the work of the state administration, it's simply impossible. Now I want to draw attention to the problem of this amendment. If we adopted him, despite, finally, minor differences between that "i" and "or" simply, we would not have been able to be a civil servant in the ministry of justice if not understood in the information technology, unless he was doing some material-financial, accounting and administrative work. We separated it. It's clear now, so I don't think there should be any more slowness.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19106	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Stevanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19107	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 6. Proposal for a law on civil servants. Article 6 says the word "effectiveness" is replaced by the word "mildness". Namely, the title of this member is – responsibility at work. So Article 6 will read: "The civil servant is responsible for the legality, professionality and well-being of his work", which means that not only is cosmetic nature, "effectiveness" is replaced by "mildness"; which means that we have a large number of items in the ministries and other services, so it is not by chance whether it will be solved in a shorter or longer period of time, which means that there is, in addition to other expertise, a time to solve the case. We are faced with great crowds and long waitings, so there are also staff in various ministry services, which, of course, requires far greater control and accountability on this issue. We've also had a lot of problems with a large number of employees. I was just saying, when we had in particular the State Administration Act, we had a director, then a deputy director, and a few assistant directors. In this proposal, I'd like to point out this case where we have: senior advisor, independent advisor, counsellor, and then junior advisor. So, a lot of counselors, and the efficiency of work hasn't been observed in the past few years. We also have the People's Office of the President of the Republic, where we have a large number of bureaucratic officials, which is unacceptable. In the proposals of many laws we have so far, there are also a large number of agencies. There are a large number of party comrades piled up. When we look at all these segments of responsibility and timelyity, we also have legality, impartiality and political neutrality. This can only serve as a dead letter on paper, which means that in practice it is inconclusive to be political neutrality, when it is known who employs these officials and how. Also, when it comes to progress in business, it is also known that there is a favoring party friends, rather than some other who are outside of political commitment. I would like to give an example of the conduct of our officers, when it comes to the ministries and when it comes to other services. I know a few cases myself. In one case, it happened that the mother took her daughter to Italy, and the man who was damaged asked the foreign ministry for help and where he hadn't knocked yet, it's been a few years since, and his daughter hasn't seen it yet. There's another case where three or four months ago, a mother took two sons and a daughter to Poland and for three and a half months this fellow citizen has been unable to reach his children, to see them. So our foreign ministry, the Embassy in Poland, are unable to allow our fellow citizen to meet with his children as soon as possible, even with police control, but it is important that our fellow citizens respect each other. We'll soon have a proposal for mediators, mediators, protectors of citizens. Gentlemen, with such bureaucracy and administration, I don't think they'll have anything to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19108	Thank you, Mr. Stevanović. First, MP Momir Markovic answered, and then, if there is any time left, MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19109	He'll stay, Mr. President, time. I will briefly try to bring people's MPs and citizens of Serbia closer to the effectiveness, timing and issue of civil servants and deputies. If we take, let's say, the director of NIS is a civil servant, so he sets up a certain Ivica Miskova, then he's the tenant, and he's to set up jobs, for example, around imports and exports, paperwork on imports and exports of euro diesel. So, the papers go to the border and they come back, and the euro diesel is produced in the refinery and goes from there to Novakovic's tanks, which is also a substitute, because it sets up jobs. By the way, Drakulić set this up, I mean the edge of Mishkova. He was appointed by Drakulić Radoje as a good clerk in his time, because he deserved it, and then Djordje Ćukovic, also a substitute, though, Novakovic, is not Drakulicev. As they set up each other's jobs, they set up NIS that Serbian citizens (and I see yesterday in the paper promising those who did not raise bonds, thought of the military, police, education, etc.). get the bonds. There won't be any of these tenants left, like hyenas gathered around the NIS. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think this amendment by Parliamentarian Stevanovic should be adopted and incorporated into this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19110	Thank you very much, it will be built in. The pledge is to make an amendment, this is mutual solidarity. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19111	It's a member of the 6th that regulates the responsibility of a civil servant to work. "The civil servant is responsible for the legality, expertise and effectiveness of his work." So far in our practice and the theory of "effectiveness" is not used, but now some newspaper has since we started with concepts like good administration, as if there was a bad administration. We promote the principle of legality, so first of all we insist on legality. The integral part of that legality in further demarcation is also timeliness. There are these jobs where the law prescribed a deadline in which a first-degree body has to do something, to make a solution, to conclude, something has to work. It's something that's measurable. When you say "effectiveness," there's already thinking about what it might be. It's probably thought of efficiency, it's probably taken with as little resources as possible, and it's probably potential for some quality. But it's immeasurable. It's an individual thing, immeasurable. A first-degree reference officer can be extremely effective and his second-degree organ cancels everything. But if it is said -good times, then a second-degree body can appreciate whether there have been silences of the administration, whether it has been brought in and within what time, whether there is an absolute or relatively significant breach of the procedure, etc. It's just some concepts, terms that don't mean anything in this matter. They probably have some meaning in betrists. I have to go back to what was just said about Article 2. This attitude 1 begins with a sentence: "The civil servant is a person whose place of work consists of work from the work of the body." So here's the important job and the work he's doing. The distinction is made in relation to the other person who is defined as the undersigned, who does not operate in the jurisdiction of the state authority, but does some auxiliary work: cafe cook, locksmith, plumber, porter, driver, etc. And then this: "or associated with them in general", etc. - It's got to be "and" right now. There's no alternative. There's been a misrepresentation of informers and lawyers here. It's completely misunderstood. We have in the authorities jobs that aren't purely administrative. People who don't work in administrative proceedings don't apply regulations. But their work is necessary for those who apply the administrative procedure. That's the point. We have persons making some analysis for the ministry to get the ministry out with some new program, a plan. That is, by definition, research can be general, it can be informative and other affairs. So it's not "or," it's "and." They're listed in continuity. Because if what Mr. Balinovac said were accepted, then the civil servant would only be the one applying regulations and administrative procedures or perhaps someone helping him. But that's not the point. This article does not say so, but he wants to say that this is where the real division is – for civil servants who are doing some work that is important for the state authority, and not only for the administrative process, but also for the analysis of regulations, monitoring the situation, why not say – preparing regulations, etc. The civil servant is also the one who works in the office. He is a civil servant. I see it's about stubbornness. It's gonna be like we say. Let it be as you say. About this effectiveness, this is what the DSS promotes – effective, valid, hairy. By the time the press and the audience realize it, the train passes. Give those terms and principles that are known in administrative law: legality, efficiency, prohibition of discrimination, urgency, timeliness, some deadlines. Now we have a situation, it's not from today, it's a long time ago, administration and bureaucracy are driving some of their own way. The man completes the request, attaches everything from the documentation, if it's a shortened procedure, it's probably a routine thing to make a solution. Now he waits for it to pass, so that the party may come and ask him, so that this and that he may make it clear, not according to the rules of the law, and by the law, what is to be provided and what is proved. No, he's hitting on his tariff, so we can see each other, that maybe you didn't cheat on me, maybe this, maybe that. Where did the weather come from? How many items are there where requests are folded for two or three months in a drawer, where some referent is going on a little sick, a little vacation, a little here, a little there and always, as an excuse, used – the party didn't deliver that and that. Did you invite her, I didn't, but I'm waiting for her to come to me as soon as she sees there's no solution that she'll come to, and by your standards, that man can be effective, but I don't think he's done his job in time. He's got exactly what he needs to do and within what time. If it is not completed it should, I guess, within two three days, until it has been requested, to conclude that it requires completion of the subject, not in 65 days when all possible deadlines have expired and when it should have come to a solution, well, then he remembered – this is not complete, provide some documentation. You can't cover it with the notion of efficiency, because it may mean something for now, but in the administration it's not measurable.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19112	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, with the correction, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meso Omerovic together submitted. The government and the Justice and Administration Committee have not accepted this amendment, with correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Pursuant to Article 139(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Committee on Justice and Administration have submitted an amendment to Article 6. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meho Omerovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, suggesting that the title and a new member of the 6a be added after article 6. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with the correction, is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 10th amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19113	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that this law, at least for a time, will be valid until the SRS takes over the helm of power and governance in Serbia, we must try at least to correct some obvious irregularities and illogicalities in this law, in order to be able to apply it for at least two months until the new law, more adequate and more quality, is passed. National MP Darko Glisic submitted an amendment to Article 10, but first I will have to read it: "All civil servants are equal when deciding on progress and rewarding and achieving their legal protection". We ask that Article 10 reads, "All civil servants are equal when deciding on their labour rights and on the basis of work." So the right to work is both progress and reward and all the other rights that come out of it. This amendment to Article 10 would make that member really applicable and applies to all civil servants, because this is the case for civil servants, if a member of the 10th stays this way, the promotion and rewarding will not depend on their work results but on the will of the superior, of the head; if it is for the ministry, then, of the will of the minister, if it is the Agency, then, of the Director, if it is any service, then, of the managers of that service that may decide. In a broader context, it puts someone to earn a prize, to be rewarded, to gain by their work and experience of advancement, to earn it and to advance in business regardless of will, and especially by political will, volunteerism by those at the top and in the situation they are able to decide. So I suggest we adopt this amendment and at least make this first two or three months of SRS rule a little easier after the next election.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19114	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Dragan Zivkov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19115	Article 14. The bill – Union membership and association, reads: "The civil servant has the right to be a member of the union and of the professional association and of their governing bodies". We suggest that this article reads: "The civil servant may be a member of the union or its governing bodies". The difference is with these professional associations. Why? Well, the civil servant has an obligation to keep perfecting and progressing. It is his work assignment, such as the work assignment of all others who work, doctors, educators, all are educated during work. Now, taught by bitter experience with Soros and NGOs and working associations, and why don't you tell the Association of Judges, so I guess it was, and you know, inform Minister Stojkovic, they are now harassing him at this Mediation Centre, dragging there these judges. It's all over the association again. In our practice, as soon as someone can exercise the right to professional association, abuses immediately take place. So union organization means protecting the material, economic and professional interests of a group of people and those in that union can protect it. However, not all civil servants are alike for union association, and that must be said, so the police, then the military, and other institutions. But to allow a civil servant to be a member of some professional association and to be run by Natasa Kandic by this professional association, so you don't have the administration of people. Why are you destroying yourself? To be a member of some professional association and run by Sonja Biserko? Well, he's no longer Budimir Loncar's foreign minister to command him, as she's commanded him for years. Not because of some empty alleged standards, who knows where you're from, that you're destroying the state structure. You're not authorized to do that. If you care much more about a professional association, someone, get them out of the state service, so let's go and be in the association. So Sonja Biserko left the Foreign Ministry, went to the Helsinki Committee. Why? It's more like it. Kandic, who was in the union, left him, left for more money. Don't make it look like they're fairer to the state now than they are to you. I agree, the union is that it protects their material, economic and professional interests, and what other professional association? Here you see, we were attacked when in 1999 or 2000, it doesn't matter, we resolved from the post of Judge Leposava Karamarković, Zoran Ivosevic, that Vučetić, etc. Why? Because they created an association that couldn't be with us, promoted something of their own, played something, etc. We were all attacked. Here in the National Assembly, the decision is overrun. She's out of power. They were returned, so they were joined in their work hours, so they went back to those jobs and how the government got them out of those places. Bosko Ristic, from this place, said Leposavi Karamarkovic, she was looking there somewhere, in fact not looking at it, because it was an emergency, to recommend that she resign and, at 7:30 in Dnevnik, she said – I am resigning, so Natasa Micic set up that Brkic, right? You had to drive Zoran Ivosevic away. You've seen him, he can't be dealt with. From Vučetic, what use do we have from the Constitutional Court? What benefit do we have from the Constitutional Court headed by Vučetic? Nothing. Nice Karamarkovic and now he's hara. And now she's trying, on the left, on the right, through members of the High Council of Justice to create human resources policy and influence the choice and resolution of judges, and day and day. You have that association, now they're a little down, now they're headed to this Mediation Center. That's where they split the money, let me tell you right now. When you look for one of the presidents of Belgrade's courts, where he is, at the Mediation Centre. They are trained – that the court settles disputes between citizens without trial, with interventions. Now there goes education, so we had, applied for a judge, you chose him, though. He says, "Where?" She's at the law firm, working on the judge's education. The one who's not a judge, educates the judges. Don't insult the state any more. Let someone accuse us of being like that, but keep that dignity. How can a civil servant be a member of a professional association? What's he gonna apply? It will effectively apply the attitudes of the professional association, and this efficiency is reflected in how much Soros has separated the money. Do you think Soroshu cares about Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro and us here, that we are developing, that we should be who we should be and what we should be in the extreme? You send bears to our people's hole, with special provisions of the law, and this is where a politician can't even live his head to accept some functions, a disaster from him. If he wants to be the guardian of the citizens, he must leave his membership, because as soon as you're in the party, you're worse. What are professional associations? NGOs. Can you imagine an organization headed by Vojin Dimitrijevic, what that organization can do? Only the evils of this people and this profession. Or Watermelic. You're now forcing a civil servant to go to Vodalic's association, or that SOS phone. That's where the socialists made a mistake. They say there's a lot of pressure, let's make an SOS phone. That worked pretty well. Sometime when there was a problem with the strand, those fucks to the international NGO, are you giving money, e, we're pushing your policy. Don't make civil servants put bears in a hole. Why? He will return to the state, the state structure, the government, as a boomerang, from which he will shoot his head. You won't know where it's coming from. Some secrecy must exist in the work of the government's authority. Not everything the ministry prepares so publicly, that before the minister looks at the paper that its officials have prepared, CNN publishes. And how's that going? Well, that's how it works. Or in the ministry, great experts, so now they write books, they share their experience. It's in the ministry of Lalovic, the one Ljiljana, who forged the elections, the Thessaloniki vote, I guess, that's how it was, from Bodrum. She writes books on how to apply the law. She's been doing lawwork, so now she's writing books about how to apply regulations. Don't do that. He who wants to be a civil servant must know that he is limited in respect of certain rights in relation to his non - civil service colleague. An economist who works at a private company or a state firm may be a member of a professional association, etc. But a state service economist can't, especially if it's financed from abroad, where there's nothing from the state. I'm not asking you to go back to the period of 1953 when a civil servant, in order to make a marriage, had to write a request, so that the state would grant him whether to marry an NN person. I'm not asking you to. It's just a matter of work. About professional associations, you understand who's funding it and why it's funding it. Remember, if you don't accept this, you're gonna have a really big dance in the government. You're going to call each other, as far as possible, why it's possible. He was just before Dinkic, so he boasts that some of his papers were brought to him by one ministry and by another company, and by some third. He's bragging. Look, when the state doesn't have its own mechanism, then some civil servant boasts about how he somehow got some kind of paper. It's dangerous. Don't let those professional associations make people go to professional associations. I know it's been a simple process for a few years, if you're a member of that association, you are. You're an expert, let's see you work in the state service. That's a real mania. Then you read their biographies. Says a Norwegian language expert, Swedish, attended two courses, one two weeks, the other three weeks, attended Segedin, attended here, attended there. Don't do this, people. State officials should abide by the law, apply the law, act in accordance with the law, educate themselves in the way our regulations change, educate themselves. Get rid of those professional associations. Send a civil servant to master some course. The state is able to pay, but run away from these professional associations, those before, to provide funding for those people who are the organizers of that professional association. I'm not talking about all the people in the professional association, I'm talking about four top five, who participate in the negotiations, who draw funds. He's very capable, he says, of providing funds for our association to operate. You know, cheese is for free, only in a mouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19116	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19117	Thank you. You see, when the government has no criteria for adopting amendments, what happens. When the government adopted these amendments on June 30th, and if you look at and see what was adopted then you will understand that there are really no criteria, but they have crossed over in the government, they have adopted amendments from some MPs, which they did not know today when we talk about amendments will be opposition, a difficult opposition. Ugly government mistake, but what do we do? Article 18. The draft law on civil servants says, "The civil servant is obliged to accept the post in the same or other state body to which he is permanently or temporarily transferred under the provisions of this law." We in the SRS think that such a member cannot survive in this bill, or tomorrow in the law, but that it should read: "The civil servant is obliged to accept a post in the same state body and another state body to which he is permanently or temporarily transferred under the provisions of this law, with his consent." You will allow this formulation of such a reorganised member to be something that should be accepted, which is in the interest and in order to protect civil servants from the possible abuse of their direct executives when moving to work. When speaking of this bill in principle, it was also heard from MPs who would vote for this law, and Mr Balinovac emphasized this, as this one takes great care of civil servants, the maltenes are brought for civil servants, and here is the article 18, who rejects such claims and such views. If the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group were not accepted, then indeed, civil servants would be left to the mercy and mercy of their direct executives. This, too, is the opposite, I mean the proposed text, with what's been said here today, when we were just talking about the state administration law. What did you do? In that law, you protected your assistants and the rest of your faces. You have provided them with peace and for the next five years, so that no one touches them, when you expose them, when this law comes into force, and the civil servants, who do not have such protection, you leave at the mercy of these officials, which you leave untouchable by this previous law. A civil servant must fear whether the manager will transfer him to another body, whether he will move him within the existing authority. Of course, it opens up the possibility of abuse and the possibility of someone being able to interfere with either politically or personally or simply not, someone being zealous, an official in the right sense of the word professional, he will bother some official who wants to do something under the grain and then, without his consent, will move it not only within that existing body, but in agreement with his colleague into a very third body. We didn't think it could survive that way and that a civil servant had to be protected from abuse. Of course, a civil servant must obey the law, he must work in accordance with the law, but there is a disciplinary responsibility if he is possibly wrong about the service and the law, but he must not be left to the mercy and mercy of a state official. The government has rejected this amendment, but I'm going to have to deal with the reasons of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, the government’s arguments are increasingly nebulous. I repeat again what I said today, it is unacceptable for the government to address these reasons to the MPs. People's MPs are smart enough to interpret what the government says, smart enough, because we were elected here by citizens of Serbia and the government has no right to insult the intelligence of the MPs or the citizens of Serbia who brought us to this parliament. So the government says it doesn't accept this amendment. It goes on to say, "The whole of the amendment's formulation contains contradiction" - incorrect. In fact, if a civil servant is required to accept a job in the same state body to which the transfer is due, because the transfer is in this article, it is not possible that the transfer would require the consent of a civil servant. I expected the government, if it doesn't accept my amendment, to tell me why it doesn't accept it, and not to tell me that it's not possible for a transfer to require the consent of a civil servant. Mr. Balinovac, why isn't that possible? It's clear to me from your proposal that you think it's not possible, but I want it to be explained to us why it's not possible, not to overwrite, just in another order of words, what's written in Article 18. It is further said: "The duty to do something or not to act excludes any consent of a civil servant". This is really some high-minded sentence I don't know if anyone understands. A different interpretation is possible, the government says – that the consent of a civil servant is sought only when a civil servant is permanently or temporarily transferred from one state authority to another. The government again says one lie: "But the civil servant never permanently moves to another state authority" – this is simply not true. There is a article 89 that regulates 93, 94. The proposal that is regulated by the SRS also intervened in each of these members in the same way, with the aim of protecting civil servants and to minimise the abuse of civil servants in relation to civil servants. There goes one view of the government's argument, I ask you to follow this if you can, because I crossed it when I read this: "Irrespective of the possible interpretation of the amendment, the reason why the transfer for the need for work does not require the consent of a civil servant is seen for the transfer because of the need for work – either in the same state body – possible only in the workplace whose jobs are done in the same job as the jobs from which the civil servant is transferred and for which the civil servant fulfils all the conditions". I see other colleagues getting baptized while they're listening to this, and it really is for that kind of reaction. Mr. Balinovac, tell these in the government that they wrote this so that they can't fascinate us with long sentences with some of those unusual expressions and that we now think – God, what this government has told us wisely. We know perfectly every one of these expressions and we know that we interpret and analyze sentences. It is indeed high time that the government of the Republic of Serbia treats MPs with due respect. You may not accept our amendments, but you are obliged to say why you do not accept them, not just because we are the 30th of June and today the opposition, and that you accept some amendments of MPs that are the opposition today, so now you regret it. So we are the opposition and then and now, but we won't be for long, but as long as we are, we insist that you respect a parliamentary group that has 81 MPs and that you are obliged to tell us anything that makes any of our amendments the Government has not accepted, not that you tell us, as here, "for the same reason that stands in the article". You don't accept it because you can't accept it. This is really very interesting. You further say, "On top of all that, the civil servant is protected by the right to appeal for a transfer that is filed by the Board of Appeal and the right to a administrative dispute against the second-degree settlement of the Board of Appeal." Don't make fun of people's MPs or civil servants. We tell you nicely to accept this amendment and that the civil servant himself decides whether he will go, if he meets the conditions, into another body. Within the existing authority, it can be deployed as the needs of that authority allow, but do not refer people to the second-degree appeal committee, the administrative dispute. Of course, it remains as a variant if the civil servant is unhappy with the decision of the competent authority. You're saying that a civil servant is protected from the law of appeal for a solution filed by the Board of Appeal. First of all, who is this appeal committee? The appeal is, if you, as a minister, transfer a civil servant to another body, you form that appeal committee and that civil servant complains to your commission, fully convinced that this commission will respect its reasons, not yours, since you have formed them. If he's not satisfied with the commission's decision, you say he can go into administrative dispute against a second-degree settlement. Of course, no one can take that right away from an employee, but you also know the long way from that first-degree solution to a judicial decision. And it's been going on for five years. I ask you, what will happen to someone who has been suing for five years to prove that he was right, and to prove that he was right – how can he be compensated for these lost five years? Even if his fee is paid, and even worse for that employer, according to Lalovic's law, says: "I will not return to you with double compensation." You know, it's not just this law that regulates that matter. Many laws have to be read and many laws to explain to the citizens of Serbia how this government doesn't care about any segment of society, not one category of citizens, so when you don't take care of the civil servants who are doing this to you, the civil servants translate, write, think, work for you and don't care about them, what can anyone who isn't in this relationship with the Government of the Republic of Serbia expect? Therefore, Article 18 of the proposed law on civil servants must be changed in the way I proposed on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. If you care about really doing something in the interest of these civil servants, the concept of the law does not touch you, the government policy in the application of this law does not touch, so we just want legal certainty and we want to protect this category of Serbian citizens from possible abuses. I don't know what the government should be afraid of. If your intention is to not really abuse functions, to really have a healthy relationship with civil servants, you have no reason to be afraid of such an amendment before. If you trust yourself, then because of someone you may not trust enough, therefore, Mr Balinovac accepts this amendment or you colleagues in the voting day take care. The majority, or one number here, and those who are not present, were civil servants and will again be civil servants, there are those who are at rest in the state services, so I ask you, when you return as former MPs, then there is a minister from another party, not the one who suggested that you be here on the parliamentary list and later an MP, what such a future, or official, who rests his duties, what he can expect when he returns to a ministry headed by a minister who is not from his party. I guess we have to protect people who are involved in politics, and we have to protect, anyway, every citizen and every employee in the ministry, and we can't let the law allow ministers and other government officials to act as if the state is their front.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19118	The word is Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19119	The government accepted the amendments by taking the view whether or not they were correcting the law, not intending to counter the opposition, when, why and how, nor by repenting of accepting those amendments that are justified. So, the amendment that was proposed I'll read it, but I need to tell you one thing before. A civil servant works at the workplace in Authority A and may be transferred within that authority or transferred to another body, to body B. Let's see how the amendment reads: "A civil servant is required to accept a job in the same state body and another state body to which, according to the provisions of this law, he is permanently or temporarily transferred, with his consent". When you read that amendment, you do not know what consent applies, whether consent applies to transfer to another body or refers to transfer to your own body. Secondly, the law does not foresee the possibility of permanent transfer, due to the need for work, to another body. Contrary to what the speaker said before me, the law is quite clear. In Article 89, the civil servant may, because of the need for work, be permanently or temporarily moved to another suitable post in the same state body or temporarily transferred to another body. Therefore, a civil servant cannot be permanently transferred to another state authority and cannot be permanently transferred to another state body has simply compromised, among other things, the content of the amendment. But in Article 93. (point 4) - Temporary transfer to another body, he says, "The civil servant can be temporarily transferred to an appropriate workplace." There is no doubt that the transfer to another state body can only be temporary, contrary to what is said in the amendment and contrary to what we have heard from the representatives of the amendment promoters. It remains to be seen what is the position of that civil servant who has been temporarily transferred to another body. First of all, he keeps his job in the body from which he was transferred to another body. This is what the law says – all labour rights are exercised by a civil servant in the state body from which he is transferred. He can only be transferred to a workplace that corresponds to his rank, his knowledge, so that this temporary, in no way permanent transfer, has no elements of the degradation of officials. He simply moved to the same workplace or a similar workplace, where he worked in his national authority. It shall be relocated if the state of emergency is in another State authority. where business is so increased that the number of civil servants in that other State body cannot carry it out. Therefore, we have a public interest here, a need to satisfy the work of a state authority and the interest of a civil servant. A compromise has been reached between the two categories as follows: no consent of a state-owned transfer officer to that state body whose interest needs to be satisfied, but the civil servant can only be deployed to a workplace that corresponds to his professional preparation and his abilities, therefore, to the workplace where he worked and in the previous body. That transfer can be temporary, it can't be permanent. All labour rights, including wages, shall be exercised in its national body in which he worked before the temporary transfer and shall have the right to return to the same place of employment at the end of that temporary transfer in his national body where he worked. Thus, the interests of the State Security Officer and the interests of each state authority in the conditions of increased labour and state of emergency work and performs their function, and the interest that the state body is working is not of any particular interest to the state authority, but is in the general interest of the citizens. The civil servant has the right to appeal for a solution to the temporary transfer to another state body to the appeal commission, but the appeal committee does not form the manager who transferred it. This appeal committee, as a member of 149. The bill says it appoints a government among graduate lawyers with at least five years of legal experience at least, at the proposal of the manager of staff management. So there is a government appeal committee as a government body, not as a private body of officials who would decide on the complaint. Therefore, neither is the claim that an official's appeal is decided by someone who has been derailed by the official, it is not true. No, the government's Board of Appeal is calling as a permanent body to be elected with a five-year term, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19120	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19121	Replica, because Mr Balinovac tried to make fun of me and our MP group, which is, of course, unacceptable and with a large number of Serbian citizens who vote for us. Mr. Balinovac, we're neither illiterate nor stupid, and please, if you're trying to convince us of something then try to make it your argument. In Article 89. - "The civil servant may, because of the need for work, be permanently or temporarily transferred to another suitable post in the same state authority or temporarily transferred to another state authority". We said and we asked it to be with his consent. Why? Because of Article 93. - "The civil servant can be temporarily transferred to an appropriate post to another state body where the size of the work is increased, and all labour rights are exercised in the state body from which he has been transferred." When work is increased, in which body is the size of the job increased, who will appreciate it? Is that not what this state official, or the minister, is going to do? I was talking about possible abuse, precisely because the minister who has the intention of not working by law and who knows he's not working by law doesn't want close to himself a state official who knows the law and who sees the minister doing the opposite of the law. Such a minister at any time can agree with that other minister that there is an increase in the size of the job and to remove the one who could quickly put him behind the lock. In the following statement, you say, "The temporary transfer to another state body lasts for the longest six months, and it can be extremely extended for another six months." How many times, Mr. Balinovac, six months later, another six months? So once that officer he doesn't want to see the minister transfer six months to another ministry, he's going to extend it for another six months, so it's a year, so as soon as he gets back, he's going to lend it to a third colleague for another six months and another six months. I really don't see why you're afraid of this amendment solution that, I repeat, doesn't touch the essence and concept of the government's vision of the state administration, but if this government has any intention, at least in one segment that's still fair, to work and continue to work like that, then don't, because of those ministers of yours that are criminals, put them in a situation that the civil servants in that ministry are afraid of, if they accidentally hear something or say something about that minister, that they're going to fly to another ministry, into some other body that they don't like. About this commission. When I said that the commission was formed by this high state official - the minister, you now told me that it was not the minister, but that the second-degree commission was formed by the government. Well, who makes a government rather than ministers. Of course, ministers are agreeing that this will be their confidential commission to resolve in the second degree, according to civil servants' complaints. Who's going to do it for the government instead of ministers. So don't play with us like this and don't explain to me that the commission, my God, is not formed by ministers, but formed by a government. It's not a neck. It's a neck.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19122	The word is Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19123	Even if the reasons for accepting the amendments were established, we cannot accept it because it states that an official may be transferred to another state body permanently or temporarily. I'm just asking, show the legislation, state it, quote it, according to which a civil servant can be permanently transferred to another body. Please, I'm calling you publicly. As far as the Board of Appeal is concerned, it is necessary to read the whole of the provisions. The Board of Appeal has at least five members, the government was appointed among experts, five years old, again so that its mandate would be longer than the government's mandate. A member of the Board of Appeal is protected by strict regulation of the reasons for its resolution. He may be relieved if he unwittingly performs his duties, is sentenced to jail time, etc. And against that resolution, he has the right to an administrative dispute. Therefore, if there is a right and legal order to protect someone from influence, then what has been done in this law with the Board of Appeal. That's not what law can do. There's no legal way, there's no legal way. There's something else that needs to be taken into account, that the government is bringing in a personnel plan. The staff plan also shows the number of employees whose employment commitment is planned for a certain period of time due to a possible increase in the volume of work. So if the amount of work increases so that it is not possible to satisfy it with people's reception for a certain working time, then it is only then that this transfer comes into consideration, but for this transfer you must and how to provide an explanation. Therefore, the Government is prepared to accept this amendment the moment we are shown where it is possible to permanently transfer a civil servant to another state body, more specifically when we are quoted as such a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19124	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic together submitted the 21st Amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. The People's Messenger Bozidar Koprivica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 21. Proposal for a law on civil servants, by proposing to be in Article 21(1). The bill of law of the word "obeys" is replaced by the words "proceeds by". Let me remind you, this member regulates the relationship of the manager with the civil servants. The legal norm, as an essential part of every member and every law, must be clear and precise, and the language of the norm must be adequate to the matter it processes. Gentlemen of the Ministry, I believe that the words "proceeds by", which I have proposed by this amendment, are more adequate to the working legislation than the words "be in line" and therefore this amendment should be adopted. The words "repeat" can have more meaning and the way it's used in this law will not oblige anyone. Either you've got bad translators from your employers or you've got bad lawyers, the third one's gone. I suggest you adopt this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19126	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19127	Again, the problem is not just in terms, what does that mean, "it's due to comply"? He's bound to act, he's obliged to execute, and he's "needs to comply", it's about as if you said, "he's obliged to bend his head and do what he's got." In what context is it said "work in the task force". - "The civil servant is required to comply with the written order which the manager designates him to work in a working group in his or her own national body." He has to accept, he has to act, it belongs to his duties. If it's his duty, he's in charge. This word "repeat" is really unacceptable, because you probably have some other meaning for it. Just enough of what you stated in article 17. In article 17, you wrote well that he was obliged to follow orders. If he feels that he is asked to do something contrary to the regulation, he is obliged to inform his manager, and the manager is obliged, if he insists that he be ordered to do so in writing, he is obliged to act and thus exclude his responsibility. That's what it's been so far. This "repeat" in the task force, I get the impression that you treat the task force as something that's messy, something that's foreign, and then you have to comply. In the workplace, the employee fulfils his work duties and duties. He needs nothing to comply with, but to fulfill what is stated in the systematization act that is part of his work, and if it is a written order or written order, then that order contains what needs to be done, so that the word "repeat" means nothing. Mr. Chairman, this is offensive, most government deputies are working until 6:00. People went home nicely. We who have submitted the amendments need to talk to ourselves here. Well done to you who are still in the O.R. There's a game broadcast going on. It's probably what people are watching. There can be a transmission, formally and legally, but it's not that transmission. We can endure, it is not a problem, but a question is raised which is the purpose of working time, as one of the MPs said, when the Rules of Procedure was passed, it is likely that President Markovic was denied something. There's no one from G17. (Velimir Simonovic, from the place: Where are yours? How many of you are there? Our messengers, who are in charge, are here. There's twice as many of us as you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19128	Mr. Krasic, you're familiar with the Rules of Procedure. You know the working quorum is established at 10.00 or 11.00, as it was today. These are the rules of conduct in this House. Later, an MP can behave as he pleases.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19129	You, Mr. Chairman, did not understand me. I don't challenge the Rules of Procedure, I don't call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm only pointing to something that's a fact. That fact disenfranchises the work. The continuation of this session is unthinkable if 15, 20 of us from the SRS are to sit here, to explain, to be watched by five or six MPs from the DSS, and these others have left the Assembly and gone to watch the volleyball game broadcast. Why? Because they think it's hours till 6:00. They were not bound by the Rules of Procedure until 1800, but they found that they should be present, because the working hours were up to 1800 hours. People left, seven or eight MPs left from the DSS and twenty radicals. What are we supposed to talk about here now, who are we trying to convince? Convince these eight MPs? I suggest you use your authority to simply determine that the session continues tomorrow at 10.00, because this doesn't make any sense. Just because I told you doesn't mean we're going to leave, we won't. We have submitted amendments and we want to explain it, but it loses every purpose and purpose of any further work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19130	Mr Krasic, there are more than 10 MPs from your party. Don't mind others, and you're not here alone. The word is Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to provide an explanation concerning the amendment to Article 21. The explanation is based on what the esteemed colleague and MP Krasic said. To explain what actually happened. The 21st amendment was submitted by Ljiljana Nestorovic, Meho Omerovic and Bozidar Koprivica. They are one, from the then parliamentary group of Social Democracy and the other from the SRS. The essence of both amendments is the same. When we in the government were thinking about what amendment to accept, we simply decided on the timing of the amendment. The amendment was first submitted by Ljiljana Nestorovic, along with Meha Omerovic, and only then Božidar Koprivica. We felt it was fair to accept their amendment, and that, with apologies, we would not accept Mr. Koprivica's amendment just because he was late and I think this solution is just. Otherwise, we agree with the criticisms made by Mr Krasic regarding the word "repeat".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19132	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19133	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Balinovac, that Mr Krasic was right earlier when he found that there were eight MPs in the hall from the ruling structure and that it was a disgrace and a disgrace to the Serbian Parliament, confirms the fact that the same situation is still the same; the rash is slowly and eight of them will remain five-six. Cirkovic, no one notices you, you read the book, probably Sydney Sheldon, I don't know what's in front of your bench. In any case, I would like to tell you that the responsibility of the SRS, although such a relationship between the ruling structure, is very large, according to this law and all legal proposals. I must thank, first of all, my colleagues Krasic, Markovic and my colleagues Radeti for explaining in my absence this morning the amendments I submitted to the state administration law. From the Kragujevac City Assembly, which has been sitting since this morning, which intends to make the town of Kragujevac a devastating and scandalous decision on Mayor Veroljub Stevanovic's proposal, I came directly to the Serbian Parliament. Members of the city, according to Prince Michael, I met some of them, after crossing this famous Cedin Zebra, at 5:00 p.m., when I entered the building, nor did they want, nor did they intend to hear what the Serbian Radicals are saying, as their great objection to the proposed text of the law. This formulation, given by Mr Balinovac as a proposer, or government, in Article 21 and the proposal by Mr Bozidar Koprivica, is something you should have considered first. When you or some government official say: earlier there was an amendment from another MP, so we accepted it, or very often one of the ministers dares to say, well – the amendment has been accepted, we cannot. What do we care? There will be this famous day of voting, time will be set, and everything is possible in that day of voting. You once and for all must learn what the National Assembly is. In our hands, it is a sovereign right to decide whether the text of the law will look one way or another. You remember the case of Lalovic and our good intentions to change the Labour Act, although he did not expect in March of the month some amendments were adopted that he did not dream of being. So the Assembly mostly forms everything. Of course, this amendment is not essentially the one that will change the law that is before us, about civil servants, but that formulation is more appropriate for both our Serbian language and what we are and what we should be civil servants. If you say in the proposed Article 21 that an official must comply, and it is talked about working in a working group, regardless of what it is, then it is really unacceptable both in the Serbian spirit and in any way, the formulation proposed by this amendment, Mr. Koprivica, to change. The very word "repeat" has never been applied anywhere, in any law. There are our legal experts who know it even better, but, in any case, it would be good if (when amendments like this, of course, and all others, which fellow SRS MPs are putting on behalf of our parliamentary group,) not only take it seriously, but take it seriously. There are far too many suggestions, proposals that have a basis in some other, ultimately, traditional values and what we are as a people. Therefore, accept that officials, even if they are working in the task force, should not comply, but as Mr Koprivica said, it has always been in Serbia, done so, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19134	Before the replica, the word is Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19135	I repeat, this is about two amendments that have the same content. The amendment of Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meha Omerovic and the amendment of Bozidar Koprivica, of which the government adopted the Nestorović-Omerovic amendment because it was submitted earlier than this other. Once and for all, the old Romans said, "Prior Temporre Tyror Iura" - "If you're first in time, then you're stronger in right." Traditionally, it's been going on for about 2,000 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19136	There's a word for Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19137	Mr. President, I understand that by the nature of the position you're taking, you can really put up with chicana. Of course, I'm not going to put up with the chican Kragujevac lady. A little while ago, I really warned her to lower her tone of octave and that it was a way to preserve an existing audience. Otherwise, in good circuses, you know, if you want to play, you need to secure the audience yourself. What I'm reading is, in fact, my defense mechanism from you. And, of course, as I promised, I really don't want to listen to you, and right now I'm going and calling on the other MPs of the coalition to do it, too. Yeah, there you go, that's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19138	Just a moment (as more MPs ask for a word), of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, but I must tell you before that I have spoken – with all due respect you have followed the discussion, not you, Mr. Cirkovic, but the MPs who have explained to me whether he has the right or not to have the right to reply. But I wasn't following, because I was just coming in, and I don't know who was mentioned before. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19139	Mr. Markovicu, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, see what goes into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What MP Ćirkovic said earlier, I really don't know his name, he changed two three political parties and came into the group of this unfortunate Velimir Ilic, is indeed an insult to you who wanted to let him know that he should follow and, of course, in your sometimes funny, and once to a cynical manner, he told him that with all due respect he followed the meeting, which he didn't really do. He, who now said that at 18:07 p.m., leaves because he doesn't want to listen, doesn't deserve to be a representative of the people here, for the simple reason that such people should neither be found in any political party, let alone the one who in any way gets the opportunity to delegate their representatives to this highest legislature. If someone thinks that in such a way they will talk to the MPs of the SRS or in such a way as to insult these other colleagues from the ruling structure, who want to stay and patiently listen to our amendments and exhibitions, then let it be your honor, Mr Markovic, because such a Rules of Procedure you have proposed that one of the 250 representatives of the citizens behave as arrogantly and inappropriately as Cirkovic did. I really don't know his name.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19140	Thank you for protecting the dignity of the National Assembly. I remind again, according to the Rules of Procedure, of the similar interest in the topic on the agenda and in accordance with other obligations, in order to participate in the revision of the laws, MPs and their parliamentary groups, in accordance with the internal organisation, shall be elected during the debate when they will attend. I can't in any way influence what they're going to do. I only ask that during the presentation of the MPs, all due respect be paid to those present and not to be disturbed, according to the Rules of Procedure, by the exposure. We're done with article 21. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that this amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19141	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr Balinovac had to adopt this amendment without any reservations. In order to make it clear to the citizens of Serbia, I will read both the member of the law and the proposed amendment. Article 24 says, "The civil servant must not receive a gift in connection with the performance of his duties, except for a protocol or an appropriate gift of less value, or any service or other benefit." etc. National MP Petar Jojic has tabled an amendment saying that in Article 24, the words "or an appropriate gift of less value" are deleted in Article 24. So he must not receive any gift, not a proper gift of less value. In an explanation of why the amendment of MP Petar Jojic was not accepted – the amendment is not accepted because the bill accepted the concept, in the case of the receipt of gifts, contained in the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, except for a protocol or an appropriate gift whose value does not exceed half the amount of average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia. The average monthly earnings in the Republic of Serbia for July were 17,200 or 300 dinars. That's 200 euros. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and you citizens of Serbia, when you go to a civil servant, given that the law allows it, you fine 100 euros in an envelope, but I underline – in an envelope. Because if you give him money this naked it will be a bribe, and if you put it in an envelope, then it will be – a convenient gift of less value that does not exceed half of the average personal income in the Republic of Serbia. If, for example, you went to take four or five credentials, permits and the like four times a envelope and four times a hundred euros in each envelope, and all jobs will be completed legally, because the law allows a state official to take a gift – a suitable gift of less value, not to quote, whose value does not exceed half the average personal income in the Republic of Serbia. The state invites you to corrupt her clerks. Apparently, around these large investment trade procedures were the peaks of individual political parties, or most political parties, that I do not insult everyone, so there is no left for civil servants, but the law allows them to, at 100 euros, times ten permits today, full of hats. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment must, if Mr Balinovac does not adopt it today, be adopted in a voting day, in order to at least remain a little legality in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19142	Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19143	Thank you, Mr. President. The title of the head we are currently discussing is – Preventing conflicts of interest. In order to prevent conflict of interest, the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, relating to officials and to whom a member of the 16th official may not receive a gift in connection with the performance of his public office, except for a protocol or an appropriate gift of less value. The Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, in accordance with legal authority, then sets out criteria for the assessment of protocol and appropriate gifts. It was on 18 February 2005, and he wrote: – A protocol gift, within the meaning of Article 16(1) of this Act, is considered a gift given in accordance with the relevant act in the protocol of the body which gave the gift, if such a type of gift is provided for in that act. Then it is written: – The assessment of whether the gift is considered suitable is based on the value of the gift or on the impact the received gift may have on the impartial and objective performance of the function. A gift in terms of the previous position can only be a moving thing whose market value does not exceed one half of the average monthly earnings in Serbia, at the time of receiving the gifts. So this isn't me making this up. About what a convenient gift is, what a protocol gift there are already regulations. Secondly, to receive an appropriate and protocol gift, all who are present-day regulations are officials, including MPs. Chemical pens, calendars, etc. are considered under the appropriate gift. The question is whether there is any moral justification for one civil servant, one civil servant, being denied one right by a MP, who has a minister, who has an assistant minister, all those in office. This law seeks to level their position as a result of this keeping on this formulation. And what is a suitable gift and what is a gift of less value, it is determined by sublaws, which were passed by the Republic Committee to prevent conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19144	This was an explanation of the position of the legislator of the law. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Markovic. Please try to really address the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19145	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 104. - He misread me, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19146	Mr. Markovic, wrong interpretation, ground for replication. We explained that this was not an interpretation of what you said, but an interpretation of the position of the legislator and that is why it was quoted as being governed by the legislator in formulating his position. It's not right to lead the polemics. Say briefly what you thought you were misread, but it's not the basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19147	You know, at the time of Milovan Glisic, they were appropriate gifts. It wasn't gold pencils back then, Mr. Aligrudic, but it was "Head of Sugar," so it was reselling "Head of Sugar." Besides, you probably read it. If someone hasn't read it, I'll give him the book, so he can read it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I'm supplementing my proposal that when a citizen goes to a clerk, don't just give an envelope, it can also be interpreted as a bribe, but when he binds his bow over an envelope, which contains 100 euros, well, it's a convenient gift.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19148	I warn you, calling for corruption and explaining how it should be corrupt is punishable. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19149	Of course, it offends the dignity of the MPs, Article 104. In particular, Mr. Markovic mentioned my name, putting it in context with some kind of pen, I guess he insulted me. Mr. Markovic, when you find anyone in this country who will confirm that I, from anyone, have ever, as a state official, received any gift of no less or greater value, then you will mention my name. Otherwise, if you don't know it and you can't prove it, then you'll be silent, as is the order and you won't mention my name for the pay phone. That's the first thing. (From place, Momir Markovic: It is a threat. ) Of course I have the right to say this, because I have the right to stand behind what I say, and what I'm saying is true. The second thing, when it comes to the arguments that you made, and they have to do with what I'm talking about anyway, you, as a MP, had to object when we passed the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. (From the place Momir Markovic: I rebelled. You're not. You should have rebelled in that part when it came to receiving gifts from state officials. You must have a lead on that. You have to document it here and show it. The fact that you're here pro-forming against every legal proposal, if the law has 100 members, you put 100 amendments on each member, you ask that each member be deleted, to discuss. It's your right. Please, you here have to talk to me about things. So, you're not talking about things argumentably here, you're trying to tell us that a state official has the right to receive a gift of less value, and that a civil servant, who works for 25,000 dinars a month at best, if he has a high level of expertise, can't even receive a rubber, even though he may need it to work or represent a sign of attention. So let's be very correct here when we talk about these things. You don't need any amendment, no argument, and you don't need what you just said, mentioning my name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19150	Thank you. In accordance with Article 27, I am chairing the session. There is no reason to qualify each other for a valuable presentation of the MPs, because they choose their own argument, which is why they will participate in a debate. I don't think there's any reason for this tone. I ask you, to carry out each other's consultations. So there wouldn't be that kind of tone, a five-minute break. Thank you. (Pause at 18.20 hours.) ) [[After breaks – 18,40]] We're going back to work. People's MP Momir Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know which MP has the right not to mention his name in the National Assembly. I haven't named anyone for corruption, and if anyone's identified, it's his stuff. I won't talk about gold pens, I won't talk about boards, I won't talk about much I know, it's irrelevant, I'm just going back to the fact that Mr. Balinovac misread me when I spoke about the amendment, when it was said that civil servants have the right to receive a gift of less value, and in the Law of Conflict of Interest it's unequivocally said to be less than half of the average personal income in the Republic of Serbia. The average personal income is 17,260 dinars for July, 100 euros is 8,400 dinars. So what you provide for these civil servants is that, for each of their certificates they have to issue, for each document they ask for a gift of less value, and the Law on conflict of interest said that this is over 8,500 thousand, means that for each document they can automatically ask for 100 euros, or a gift equivalent to 100 euros. Whether it's a gold pen or a lighter, let those who seek gifts see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19153	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I think we're clear on that now. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19154	The cause of all these replicas and these exposures to Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment submitted by the SRS is primarily incomprehensible. When the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of SRS Interest was passed, it also challenged a similar provision concerning state officials. Believe me, it's not correct in this story and this argument that you're defending yourself with rubbers, calendars and pens. It's perfectly normal for business partners to exchange such gifts around New Year's, whether it's a lighter, a calendar, etc., but it's not a matter of law. Why would that be law matter? I want to tell you that there is a serious difference between a civil servant and a civil servant. I also dispute the right of a state official to receive, even appropriate gifts. If I dispute that right with him, I have even more reason to dispute this right to a civil servant who works directly with the case. A state official can have contact with parties in the process, and he doesn't have to. State officials, by definition, have contacts with the parties. It is not appropriate in any way to make a provision in one law governing the state administration, (and this one also regulates the state administration and that is one aspect of this personal, humane,) regardless of whether in a negative or positive form, as regards a gift, whether it is of minor value, greater value, an appropriate gift, etc. No one's gonna call anyone because they got a calendar or a pen. You know for a fact that what Mr. Markovic said doesn't apply to these things. But we have a situation where a civil servant normally receives as a convenient gift a bottle of whiskey, so since the parties know about his proclivity and habit, so what party brings a bottle of whiskey he goes across the street to the cafe and takes the money. Item 3 is terrible, where you give criteria, some criteria, etc. Simply, this member almost doesn't exist, should he not exist in this form, but should exist as a provision for a ban. It's like we're making some regulation now, and it's like none of us have ever gone to any counters or some office where his class is, where he's waiting in some drawer, so now we're talking about something on ideal terms. People, this is Serbia, don't you get it? He washes the scribe, you know. (Frislav Peric, from the place: What is Albianic taking? ) That's what you're going to go out to eat, so you can explain what Albianic is taking, and what Aligrudic, I don't know, but I'll be glad to hear you. (Frislav Peric, from the place: Why do you attack them when you don't know? ) However, since such a really important regulation where we can give a lot of, for me, quality discussions, whether the amendment is deleted or something is changed, as you can see, all the amendments that have been found on the agenda are not "clear", but some correction to improve the text. Since this is really losing any sense, I don't know who to convince. If I'm supposed to convince Ljuba Kragovic, then I'm doing an unnecessary job. It is not good that at the time of some transfers, both the Assembly and this debate loses any meaning. Most of them are gone. She won't listen. We have such a Rules of Procedure, if one MP of the SRS were to remain and explain all the amendments, the president of the National Assembly would have to sit here right now. Since some "spirits" happened after lunch and, apparently, endangers our work and the purpose of our work, we are going to leave this session. We're hoping that you'll, as old as usual, roll over those amendments, by the calling system, and no one will answer. I know we won't bother you in the discussion, because this really loses all meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19155	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to Article 24? No, I don't. Thank you. The 28th Amendment is jointly attended by the mid-national MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerovic jointly submitted to the 32nd amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Milorad Buh. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 55th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Petar Cvetkovic. The proposer's representative and the Justice and Administration Committee have accepted the amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment, with correction, is legally possible, so I find that the amendment, with correction, has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted to the 55th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Milajic. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 63 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. National MP Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 67th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Mit Avramov. The Government and the Committee on Justice and Administration have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljubomir Kragovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, no, no, ) On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, no, no, ) The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 86 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Mircic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 89, the People's MP Gordana Pop-Lazic submitted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milovan Radovanovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 103 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Radic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatko Radic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 125 of the amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 147th Amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 152, the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Stevica Dedjanski to Article 165. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 169 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Dimitrijevic to Article 169. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic to Article 171. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 178 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vojkan Tomic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 190, the amendment was submitted by MP Igor Mirovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Justice and Administration accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic to article 191. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Justice and Administration did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the draft law in particular, does the representative of Proposer Zoran Balinovac, the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for legislation, want the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19156	Just to thank the MPs at the discussion, both in principle and in particular, I invite them to vote in favour of this law confident that this represents a major step in the development of our country. So much, I wouldn't take any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-09-06-0.u19157	Thank you, Mr. Balinovac. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. That's what we ended today's work day. Tomorrow, at 10.00 hours, we continue the 11th session, with discussion in particular, the third item of the agenda.
