ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12238	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, after 24 hours of waiting, I have the opportunity to explain the amendment to Article 243 of the Law, which I have filed. I just have to realize that in the course of yesterday, for everything that was happening, I only have one comment, if you allow me at the beginning of today's debate, I followed closely what was going on waiting for me to get a word and explain, in my opinion, the most important amendment to the bill, because as the minister himself said, to me, and also to national television when he was visiting two days ago – if you accept this amendment, he will withdraw the law. So, the law is not "good", and with this amendment and a few before that, it could be fixed. What happened yesterday is really something that I only have words of confirmation, not to praise, of course, but I do, given that I've known you for many years, that all of what you said about each other is absolutely true. I believe you were right when you were talking about each other yesterday. As for the amendment to Article 243 -- it is a request from the Serbian Radical Party, and before that by the Socialist Party of Serbia and New Serbia, MPs in the voting day decided to help the citizens of Serbia, workers. This is what you are asked today by the representatives of the union in the Serbian Parliament, all citizens and all those who know that their rights would be severely violated by the failure to adopt this amendment, i.e. by failing to participate and denying the Government of the Republic of Serbia to sign a general collective agreement. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am protesting today on behalf of all citizens, and above all the workers of Serbia, which is not the presence of Minister Lalovic here. President, I warned you yesterday, or I asked you to tell me where the minister is, and you said in a funny tone that you didn't know from that perspective whether he was ahead, because you're looking ahead at us. I found out he drank three coffees and walked three hours down the hall, so much so the citizens know. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Serbia needs to be guaranteed to sign a general collective agreement. What makes me say that? Not because of such an argument that is totally unacceptable, but because of the fact that many large systems in our country are not privatized. I'm going to tell you today, since other Serbian radicals will be presenting numerous examples, let's say, of the Kragujevac flag group. It is totally unacceptable that the minister, after two days, if you remember what it was then, since yesterday we had the day for each other's accusations and reckonings, but the day before that, the minister is, on my invitation to Article 35. The Constitution – that the collective agreement is a constitutional category, because Article 35 says that employees can stop working against their will, under conditions and in a manner established by law and collective agreement, and even after the presentation of other MPs, the minister went out for a pay phone in four minutes to 18 hours and said – all this is meaningless and pointless. Three hours later, in a conversation with Mike, as he calls him, the president of the Independent Union, he said that he believes that workers of the flag, i.e. the Employment and Education Service, which, among other things, is seeking the signing and guarantee of the government for a general collective contract, "in September of the month have nothing more to ask". Those are the words of the minister. To warn the union president that major waves of strikes are being prepared, that is, the fact and that social tensions have increased, the minister said he was not interested in "lapping" about the strike, that the bill was approved by the International Monetary Fund and that he would not accept amendments that are the demands of all employees in Serbia. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is today, in addition to all the troubles that the state of Serbia has, is it normal for us to have such a minister for labour and employment? Is it a normal situation for the minister to solve the problem with the ugliest words and ugly expressions, which he suggests to Serbian workers? Is that man ready for that kind of social dialogue? Is it possible that the minister, who has taken responsibility to address the country's burning issues, says that "the Serbian people who do not like to work," he also said on the show and "who would prefer at 18 to retire". No one has ever offended Serbian citizens in such a way. The job of the minister and this government is to create new jobs. It's a job and Boris Tadic. He also promised it in the election campaign and we cannot, and because of the fact that workers are watching this transfer and every MP, above all the MPs of the SRS, to protect their interests and rights, to accept that this amendment and at the expense of Lalovic never entering the government building again, which I would like most, because it does not deserve the place. Accept in voting day, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this amendment. As things stand today, which is probably why he's indisposed, not to say the depressed minister who received support from the IMF and therefore may not appear here, the amendment will be accepted in the voting day. We will at least sort out the law that DOS has brought to the Assembly by stealing and robbing and restoring fundamental rights to workers, which is that, in signing and guaranteeing a collective contract, the Government assumes responsibility. If you're not ready, and first of all I'm talking to the DSS MPs, then let the government resign. The future government, in which radicals rule, will be ready to take on this kind of responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12239	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12240	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to welcome the members of the Independent Union, Article 243. The draft labour law concerns participants in the conclusion of a collective agreement. This is one of the key members of the Labour Law proposal, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. The SRS, or my colleague, Natasa Jovanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 243 on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, asking for the words "locking" to be added to the words "Serbian government". Basically, this is an amendment that addresses the issue of protection, above all, of employees in this country. The government, failing to accept amendments by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic, has shown the essence and nature of this draft labour law, railing from this key member and the SRS amendment to Article 243. It is explicitly required of the SRS MPs to accept this amendment, I appeal to all MPs in the Serbian Parliament to vote in favour of the amendment to Article 243. The bill, submitted by Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. In this way, what you have committed to Serbian citizens in the election campaign, you will meet. The government has committed itself to be guaranteed in all these social events in the country, in the economic situation in which the country is located, where most citizens are on the verge of social existence. Exactly, this article 243 is very important. The SRS therefore insists that the amendment be accepted by the MPs, given that the government of the Republic of Serbia received a negative response, and in its explanation it was clear that the Serbian government is not a member of any employers' association and therefore should not be a participant in the conclusion of the general collective agreement. The government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, is the government that promised citizens, when it took over to rule this country, that it would fulfil its obligations, especially the DSS, which is the holder of the government in Serbia and which is the holder of the government in the Republic government, assumed that responsibility. Given that the previous DS government humiliated all employees in Serbia, we in the SRS expected you to solve this very injustice that has been done to employees and workers in this country through this bill. With that in mind, we were expecting a bill that would protect employees' rights. However, it is obvious that the minister is not here, so I cannot speak to him indirectly, but I hope someone will pass it on to him. The essence of his exposure during the day before yesterday was that the government proposed a law that goes forward. I think the government has proposed a bill on work that will bring Serbia back, and it is not as he said, that the law goes clockwise, but the opposite of clockwise movement. This law is favourable to the employer. That's what you can spot on article 243. We insist and appeal to MPs in the National Assembly, especially the ruling majority, who make up the Government of the Republic of Serbia and support the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to vote for this amendment to Article 243 submitted by Natasa Jovanovic, because if you do not accept this amendment to Article 243, the nature of the Labour Act, which is now in force, will not change anything and you will not be any better than your previous coalition partners, with whom you have been making the circus in this assembly yesterday, deviating the topic, probably on purpose, to not talk about this draft labour law. Our theme is to talk exactly about this draft labour law. We expected all MPs at yesterday's session to talk about the bill's proposal and try to, of course, talk about the law in their own way, not about what wasn't the subject of yesterday's session. (President: You're out of time. ) We insist and appeal to MPs, particularly the ruling majority and the DSS, to accept and to vote on the amendment to Article 243 submitted by Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12241	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12242	This amendment requires the government of the Republic of Serbia to be a mandatory participant in the conclusion of a general collective agreement. In order not to repeat the reasons why it must be the government and, in most states, the government is a mandatory participant, I would just remind myself of the promises. So, institutions are being made, security is being sought, the state needs to be guaranteed. That's what the parties of the democratic bloc promised us when they built this government. If we narrow it down to numbers and some meaning, it looks like this: the government's socio-economic council has a third, that would be 33%, something it wants to do to be an institution. In collective bargaining, when it comes to the general collective agreement, the government does not want any participation. So, the definition of the democratic bloc's parties to bear responsibility, to rule, comes down to an incredible 18%. In this area you want to rule only 18%. It confirms, even mathematically, that you don't want to have touch points with this area. To remind you of legalism, to remind you of promises. Yesterday, in that stream of emotion, caused by a pathological need to point out the truth, we found out that you were both right when you described yourself as who you are and what you are. But let me remind you now, not to cut down, but to remind you. In 2003, a law was passed. Under the law, Serbian citizens should pay a TV subscription. Either the postman will inform them or that vice president, Zarko Korać, will go from house to house, write down and make people pay for a TV subscription. That law doesn't apply. Now the government will not participate in the conclusion of a general collective agreement, and of course, the director of RTS wouldn't even perform what happened in the National Assembly yesterday. There's been a decommissioning of a community. We heard you were accusing each other. I would not be surprised if this law were passed if DS representatives went to the OSCE and sued the DSS, as the DSS did against the DS, while it was in power. Is that because the government doesn't want to be in the general collective agreement, and then I ask you, who runs this country's economic policy, which is why you're going to run a tax policy, which is why you're going to run all the other sectoral policies that have any touch points with what's called a value, as an economic category? No, even, the value of the work, but the concept of value at all, the criteria, on which you think you're measuring if you don't want to be responsible for any of the things. No wonder this is happening. They protest people, strike, demonstrate, the government sleeps, it doesn't touch the government. The railroaders rebelled, the government failed to keep its promise. What could the government have promised? How can the Government conclude special collective agreements unless it is one of the contracting parties in the general collective agreement?- I'm sorry. Then could the government, with its special collective agreement to conclude when it comes to public service employees, violate what is in the general collective agreement, and it does not want to participate in the general collective agreement. How does the government think to calculate what the basic price of work is?- I'm sorry. If you are power, be power, bear responsibility. You're responsible for the state of affairs. As irresponsible as you are, Karic will probably prepare you for demonstrations and strikes. Remember, perhaps for the first time in history, they will strike both employers and employees. Think about your coalition partners, think about what you're doing, think about whether this concept of "authority without authority" is "the concept of government organised as an NGO".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12243	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12244	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still under the impression of that sketch on state television two days ago, it was called "Mika and Lale." I see Lale is not here, but in the role of the minister in the TV show he said so many ugly things to the MPs, he said so many things about the work of the MPs under the draft labour law, that I really have to comment on, especially that it has a direct connection with Article 243 on which the amendment was submitted by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic. The minister said the day before yesterday that he was not surprised by the way the amendments are explained and the amendments are jointly explained by representatives of the SRS and the SPS. I must say, the minister has told a great lie. We Serbian radicals have our amendments, colleagues from the SPS and other colleagues have their amendments, each explains their amendments; but, for example, to Article 243, which we are talking about today, there is an amendment from the SPS Group, the SPS - New Serbia, the SRS. Our amendment is somewhat different because we have just added "Government" to this existing text, and the previous amendment has been such that the existing member has changed, but it is essentially the same. It's an amendment that makes the minister not even in the O.R. yesterday. It is an amendment that the minister also said on the show -- if the amendments are adopted, he will withdraw the law. I ask you, who is the minister, where does he draw from his authority that he will withdraw the law? That's why yesterday, with two hours of delay, you started this session, convincing him not to do it in this assembly! So whoever I've talked to from my colleagues, everyone says this amendment should go through and they're surprised what's going on in the minister's head, why he won't let this amendment not be accepted. Even he conditions the withdrawal of the law if this amendment is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, don't let the minister, remember, it wasn't long ago who founded the minister's party. You remember it was Bogoljub Karic. May the minister of his obligations to Bogoljub Karic otherwise regulate, not through this parliament, not through the citizens of Serbia, not through employees in Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the minister didn't know how to answer the questions we asked him here, asked him directly, what he thought of those 300,000 employees going to work, not receiving salaries, what he meant by those 300,000 employees he's planning to, under this law to cancel. And I wrote down a minister's pearl, he said he'd get 300,000 parasites in public enterprises. If he's also from the minister, it's too much. In such a way as to insult the employees of public enterprises, Lalovic, it is an honor to you! (Natasa Jovanovic from the place: What an honor, he has no honor. Of course, you wouldn't say that. So, I can say on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group that I am very proud and that we are all very proud of our involvement in trying to fix this draft labour law, because the power of our arguments is such that the minister cannot oppose, regardless of what many amendments he has refused, he is obviously afraid that the assembly majority will accept a good part of these amendments, which would mean a much-so-better position of employees in Serbia. This amendment relating to Article 243 is extremely significant and if it is not accepted, then I really don't know what it is. If we leave the collective agreement to the employers, then collective agreements, dear colleagues, will not be. Then he'll do whatever comes to mind, then he'll cancel, then the people will... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... to declare surpluses without the possibility of compensation for severances, etc. I'll continue on the second amendment, since it's similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12245	Thank you. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12246	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a few sentences in favour of this debate, that the Government must be a participant in this procedure. I'm going to remind you of the recently adopted Business Society Act. By adopting that law, he ceased to apply the Company Act, except for several provisions relating to the part of the job where the Government banned the provisions of that law from the directors of the company, where the majority owner of the capital of the state or where the social resources are concerned, the availability of funds to reduce or increase capital, even estrangement of basic assets; it is forbidden even to rent a business space without the consent of the Government, or a certain privatisation agency. I would remind you that the government in companies such as RTB "Bor", the parent company that has several subsidiaries, suspended management bodies, set up RTB committees, which is the government's body, on the line of management of companies that are government people. We are practically in a permanent session, workers organized into two unions, independent and independent, with company directors who are actually government officials. Why, then, the Government would avoid continuing to participate in this business, if it is already in that story, if the director of a large system such as RTB "Bor" can do nothing without first obtaining the consent of the Government, or the Privatisation Agency and cannot do any business, in terms of increasing capital or reducing capital, restructuring, privatisation or anything without the Government. In this story, the government did not want to, until the moment until the social property was abolished, that is, until the state-owned enterprises were privatised and otherwise resolved by the surplus employees. And it's the only guarantee that this job will be done well, and otherwise it's not possible. The moment when there is no longer social property, when everything is private property, then it will be a completely different story and a clearer relationship of employer – employees, where the government only needs to determine the environment, determine the conditions and rules of the game, and then the employer and employees know exactly what rights they can count on, in which frameworks all it takes is for a social enterprise to function and to hire workers or to fire workers, in accordance with the regulations that apply. I don't know why the government is so defensive of the obligation and the need to participate in this business when it is inevitable, until privatisation is completed, or preparation for bankruptcy and liquidation of enterprises that are in social property and enterprises where the state is now a majority owner. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12247	The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12248	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I'm not going to mention today the debate you were in, both of you, right. I think the citizens of Serbia realized you're no good to each other. Today I won't talk about who's when, who and how many mandates he stole. I won't even talk about the damage the Democratic Party suffered with former Democratic Party of Serbia MP Djokovic, is that what Mr Aligrudic is called? Because 50,000 euros, which the Democratic Party paid off on the hands of Djokovic, were spent. Djokovic is only a member of the Democratic Party, and let Serbian citizens assess whether that could cost one member, since the mandate remained for the Democratic Party of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing this labour law for more than a week now, and it is obvious, and to the citizens of Serbia, the paranoia of Minister Lalovic the moment someone from the Serbian Radical Party appears behind this speaker, to defend his amendment, or to explain what he thinks is wrong with the law. I propose either to the Government or to the ruling furniture, or to this shortened DOS, it is quite irrelevant, to carry out the education of ministers and to tell them how they should behave when they come before us with a legal project; that they are obliged to sit in this place, so this place stands freely, to listen to what the MPs have to say to them, because the MPs, their votes, or adopt or do not adopt a legal proposal, or it becomes law or returns to some archive. And if it becomes a law, only Serbian citizens can feel whether or not the law works. This "cuckoo egg" you have called labour law only when it is considered this amendment submitted by Ms. Natasa Jovanovic to Article 243 and the reaction and Minister Lalovic, as well as many from the ruling structure, clearly indicates that the government is not ready for any moment, from the moment this law is passed, to protect workers. He leaves them in the wind to make deals with employers themselves and to arrange how much, not – how much, but "how cheap" that slave is called "work force" and which he has to sell to that employer. Given that the law of supply and demand is already largely, as labour forces as goods are present, and that much more than demand, thanks to you, because so far you have left several hundred thousand people out of work, this law, restructuring public enterprises will leave at least three hundred thousand people out of work, and with generations of young people finishing schools and arriving, calculate how much it is. Well, the state has to stand behind those unemployed. The state must protect their interests and negotiate i.e. to be a third member, i.e. to negotiate with employers. As far as the restoration of these public enterprises is concerned, I can tell you that there is already a major robbery of the property of public enterprises. The aim is for the capital from these public enterprises, in various ways, to be drained from public enterprises, so that the next day enterprises can be sold for two or three euros, as those from previous authorities sold to their godfathers. Was that, uh, Mickey Kostic, someone else's best man?- I'm sorry. I don't remember exactly. Last year, for example, in NIS, the Serbian government approved 7 million dinars, director of public relations; in those 7 million dinars, all lunches and all dinners and all printed material had to fit in. In NIS last year, director Nisevic spent 57m dinars. ... (speaks - theme) There's, there's a little bit more, but you'll spend it too. With a figure spent by Zeljko Popovic and Smiljka Nicic, of 33 million, walking around the world to see oil being sold there, it is over 100 million in one year and only in one part of the NIS. And then your tycoons will come and buy and these public enterprises and workers are fired, chicanized, harassed, given the poor diaries, and you as a state are not ready to protect them!- I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12249	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12250	The minister said if this amendment was adopted, he would withdraw the law. I've got a better idea for him. Let him resign. Let him clear the place. Although I doubt a better one will come, considering the humane structure of the ruling furniture can only burn, but he - this is not the place where he is - is not the place to sit. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs on behalf of all those who are on "bero", on behalf of all those who will go to "bero" in restructuring the economy and implementing this law, whom I see you are ready to adopt, I ask you to adopt this amendment, to force the state, to force the government, to be the third negotiator in all the relations that will be put between workers and employers tomorrow. Without this, everything is pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12251	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Milajić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12252	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 243. The proposal for this law is extremely important and it is also seen that three parliamentary groups have tabled three amendments to this member of the law. The amendments are very similar. It is said that the government's involvement in collective bargaining is sought. Why does it matter? There are at least two reasons that are important for the government's involvement in collective bargaining. – The first reason would be that the government has to be a guarantee of macroeconomic conditions of governance and general socio-economic conditions so that employers and trade unions can conclude this general collective agreement and the government can guarantee its macroeconomic measures that it is a general collective contract and enforceable. Because if there are no guarantees that the general collective contract provisions will be implemented and that they will be enforceable at all, it is pointless to sign that contract. Who can only guarantee in this country what conditions will be of order and what socio-economic conditions will be. Well, no one but the government. Given that the external trade deficit was over six billion dollars in 2004, that the country's external debt is over $11 billion, that the unemployment rate is over 305, these are extremely difficult socio-economic conditions in which all citizens of this country live, unemployed, employed, pensioners and youth and children. Only negotiating between employers and trade unions makes no sense if there is no guarantee by the government that the deal will be respected. It's millions of human destiny. It's bound to the widest possible population. In developed countries where unemployment is not a problem, where there is no problem with the external trade deficit, where there is no problem with the country's debt, where countries have had a stable growth in social products there for decades and there is no need for the government to participate as a guarantee of signing general collective agreements. However, in transition countries such as our country, which has huge problems, which I mentioned earlier, simply, the government must appear as a guarantee that this general collective agreement will be respected. Another very important reason for us, which is why the government should be involved in collective bargaining and be one of the signatories of the general collective agreement is that in the social sector, in the sector of social activities, public services and the state administration, over half a million people work. The employer in these people is the Serbian government. This means that employees in social activities, public enterprises and state-owned law do not have their employer with whom to conclude a collective contract. So they're excluded from this kind of protection. We think this amendment should be adopted, regardless of the minister's threats to withdraw the law from the procedure. It is his personal position and the ruling majority should not succumb to the pressure of a minister who himself was a union activist and union manager and who is more surprised by his resistance to the amendment and the government's involvement in general collective bargaining. I think we should adopt this amendment which, in the SRS' view, is extremely important for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12253	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rankic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12254	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why we insist that the general collective treaty be signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I would remind you that recently the same minister, who is not present here, swore that everywhere in Europe and in the world, in all the work-related tripartism, that they must be included in all types of negotiations and contracts and governments, i.e. the executive authorities of local self-government and autonomous provinces, representative trade unions and employers. And when a law was passed on the peaceful settlement of work disputes, it was said that there was no enlargement, nothing, because it was exclusively a requirement of tripartism. Now that the labour law can be passed without that tripartiteness, the signatories of the general collective agreement can only be representatives of the representative union and representative employers. I'm going to give an example of why the government is trying to avoid signing a collective contract. I'm going to remind you of the strike of employees at the "Rada-Topička Basena Bor" last year. It's a company that owns most of the state. If the government shows up as someone who is not a signator of a general collective contract, and has a role to play to settle work disputes peacefully, then it is in a very comfortable position. So it was possible that last year to stop the strike, they promised $30m, or the euro credit for the "Radar-Topier Basen Bor", of which there is nothing to date, of course. Even in the local election campaign was in Bor and Minister Bubalo, I think Minister Lalovic, who promised that it was a matter of days or weeks when the 30m euros will arrive. And, of course, they've been cheated again. Nothing's arrived!- I'm sorry. RTB "Bor" business has two years ago claimed that it has no economic logic to service the processing of copper concentrates. However, when Mr. Drakulic, 50,000 tonnes of copper concentrate, gave to the service processing of RTB "Bor", it suddenly became economically very rewarding and after a very short period of time processed concentrate into copper. Bakar was delivered to a light wire factory, also in Bor, which is part of the "Riodra-Topiar base Bor", but the $500,000 deposited for the concentrate was now worth $700,000 in the form of copper and you can see that, when it comes to Mr. Drakulić, it was very easy to achieve an economic cost of $200,000 in a short time, and when it comes to the loan that RTB "Bor" would have to do such a job itself, then it is for the management of RTB "Bor" is practically economically invaluable. I am telling you this because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is setting up the Governing Board, or the RTB Board "Bor", setting up and resolving the directors of RTB "Bor" and it was not possible to do any of this that the Government of the Republic of Serbia did not stand behind it. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to stand behind such things, then it must assume on itself and be responsible for being a signator of the general collective agreement. For confusion to be complete, some time ago, one of the local union leaders in Bor said that employees of RTB "Bor" would not have the right to free action in changing ownership because they practically took part in a strike last year. We in the SRS state take it much more seriously and we can't believe it, and that's what the union said on the orders of some government people, that state and state enterprises can function in such a way that someone will say as kids when they play football, like that kid that's not on the team, and his ball, so that someone tells the workers -- well, now you won't have the right to free action, because you took part in the strike. In order to avoid this in the future, you must in the voting day, or you do not have to, but you should adopt the amendment to Article 243 of the Law, MP Natasa Jovanovic, and, thus, make a commitment to the government that it must be the signator of the general collective agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12255	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Zoran Antić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12256	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just a few words to say about this amendment that is extremely important to us. I think the key word in our society is even trust and trust depends on the success of the transition, and above all the privatisation that is most important in the transition itself. Trust, unfortunately, is not enough between institutions today: between the government on the one hand and employees, including employers on the other, and the reason why the SRS submitted this amendment is precisely to speed up this trust. Trustfully, mutual understanding will depend on the future and the success of the transition at all. Unfortunately, we don't have fully legal associations today, and these associations didn't have enough time to build, and even around the unions, it seems to me that there are some unknowns. If we have negotiators who are not well-founded enough, it is quite understandable that the government appears as a guarantee of that contract. We have many examples of privatisation, where social programs are not respected, where there is a great conflict between employers and employees. This is another reason for the SRS to seek and demand that the government be one of the signatories, because, obviously, when, on the one hand, we already have one government institution, the Privatisation Agency, and on the other hand, employers, there is not enough seriousness in these employers and they do not take this institution seriously enough. I hope and believe that signing by the government would give us a much better situation and significantly more trust between these two sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12258	The amendment to Article 243 submitted by Ms Natasa Jovanovic, and there was quite a lot of discussion, and very briefly I would like to say and to refer to several members, Articles 155, 158, 189 and 243. I claim that these four members are the most important in the whole of the law, and all the other members of this law are makeup; Article 155, which we have talked about a lot, talks about the resolution of extra unemployed (in EPS and other public enterprises), Article 158, talks about the purchase of past internships, too, and Article 189. (where workers are fired) and Article 243 speaks of the government's participation in the signing of the contract. These members I've listed really solve the whole situation and are key to this law. On this occasion, I would like to say that I appreciate and respect my SPS colleagues, SPO-NS, who have also submitted a number of decent amendments to this law, and it is necessary that we all "seriously" to realize that Mr. Minister does not come into a situation to withdraw this law, because this would cause the greatest damage and punishment to our public sector workers and all private sector employees. So I appeal again from this pay phone to everything – you don't have to wait for Mr. Aligrudić this time, as he presses the button, so the rest of you. Try to convince him, before the day of the vote, to support these amendments in order to come to a very correct and fair law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12259	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 255 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic and MP Bozidar Koprivica together submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12260	Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of SPS fellow Petronijevic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 255 of the Law. We think it's about the essential and the amendment and the member of this law, practically, which determines the fate of this law in terms of whether it's quality or not. Because, no offense to the motion that this law be changed, that is, in relation to some of the existing ones, so that if this amendment was not accepted or if the direct application of collective agreements was not accepted, we do not think that the law will have the meaning that some want to see. Namely, my colleague Petronijevic and I have proposed that this member be changed and that there be a provision that, general and special collective agreements apply directly to all employers. Why do we feel that a general and special collective contract should be binding on all employers? First of all, from the solutions provided for by the legislator that these collective agreements only bind those employers who are members of the Union of employers. At this point, the number of employers who are members of the Union is small and the consequence is that a huge number of employees remain outside the facts of these collective agreements. Therefore, their position will be different from those employed by employers who are members of the Union. And if there were, let's say, an orderly economic system, that there is a obligation for employers to be members of the Union, then, frankly, this story of mine would be pointless and then certainly shouldn't be a direct and general application of collective agreements. Until we build such an economic system, I think this solution absolutely makes sense. The second reason why we think there should be direct application of these collective agreements and obligations for all employers lies because the envisaged legal solutions that provide for the hypothetical possibility of the minister to extend the fact of collective agreements are practically inapplicable for both formal and real reasons. For formal reasons – as Article 256 states, the minister may decide to apply a collective contract or certain provisions to employers who are not members of the Union of employers, based on the opinion of the Economic and Social Council. When the composition of the Economic and Social Council is known, and the opinion can only be reached if it is reached by consensus, then it is logical, realistic to assume that 18 members of the Council cannot reach consensus unless one of the partners wants the consensus to be reached. In this case, if employers won't, then the consensus is gone, there is no opinion, there is no formal legal basis on which the minister can apply the provision of this law. This legal solution remains in the sphere of good wishes without a real background. I must say that Mr. Minister, explaining Article 243 of the Law, explaining the inability of the government to be a signator of a collective agreement, has practically admitted that this article will not be applied. I read the minister's argument very carefully, given the day before yesterday, to this member of the law, and he has repeatedly said that, "The government doesn't and doesn't want" to have anything to do with collective agreements. The minister is the government, if the government doesn't want to have anything to do with collective agreements, then, of course, the minister doesn't want to have collective agreements. Surely they won't even apply this hypothetical possibility to extend the fact of collective agreements. Why? For different reasons. We have even, in discussions on this law, proposed one solution – that general collective agreements have direct application, and that the minister be able to free certain areas and branches or employers of the application of this collective contract and that we go with another logic, not that he can expand, but that he can free up, and that it applies to everything. That solution has not been accepted and we've come to this. Since we believe that this solution is not good for employees, and that the law in the way it is written will not be applied, we have proposed an amendment that provides for the extension of the application of the collective contract to all employers, not only those who are members of the Union. The practical situation is such that few employers, still, who are members of the Union, are many employees of non-Union employers, and that the provision of a collective agreement, and hence the status, will not improve, until, or all employers are members of the Union or the fact of a collective contract is extended that their obligations apply and are applied by all employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12261	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12262	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as has already been said, we have submitted an amendment to Article 255. The draft labour law, which provides for a general and special collective contract to be applied directly and binding by all employers who are members of the employers' association at the time of conclusion of the collective contract – a participant of the collective contract, employers who later become members of the association and those who leave it after six months. We have proposed direct application and obligation for all employers, i.e. employees. By adopting this amendment, which we are proposing, and these solutions have also been adopted in many countries of Europe, we believe that a system of collective agreements would be re-affirmed, all of us would be interested in negotiations so as to ensure that a better collective contract, encourage employers to join and participate in a collective contract, bring them all in an equal position, provide protection for all employees, not just one and not a very small number. Look at the draft labour law:the intensity of the draft labour law is that collective agreements are given priority in the regulation of labour rights and obligations in relation to the labour rules, which is certainly commendable. Even a large number of members of the bill lays down a minimum, and collective agreements say greater rights can be established. The problem, however, is that collective agreements become mandatory only for "the representative associations of employers and trade unions" and this provision of obligation only for "the representative association of employers and trade unions" is the biggest flaw in the proposal. If it had stayed that way, a large number of workers would have lost their protection. In a large number of collectives there are no trade unions or only 10% of employers are involved in associations that need to negotiate a collective contract. It means that 90% of the workers will remain outside of the collective contract. To this day, employers have not legitimateized themselves, nor have they proved their representativeness. The question is whether they'll ever do it, if they're even interested in doing it, just so they don't have to be obliged to a collective contract. It doesn't make sense that workers depend on it and that's why they stay out of protective custody. When I talk about the protection of workers, I mean not only small businesses but also large ones, because in them or the unions are quarreled and divided, or if they have a "jak" union employer says it is not representative. Therefore, he is not obliged to conclude a collective contract and is therefore not obliged to apply it. For these reasons, the SPS argues that the labour law must contain a solution to which the obligation of collective agreements applies to all employees, not only those working with representative employers. Just a few more words about a very important collective contract, a special collective contract and, say, borderline. For the most part, there is no association of representative employers. Therefore, there are neither the conditions for the conclusion of a special collective agreement nor for the application of that collective agreement because they are not concluded, nor for the extension of the facts provided for in Article 256. If it is accepted that there are representative associations of certain groups of employers in the Union, the largest number of workers in the branch and activity will again remain out of protection, as there are very few employees in that employers' association, and for example employers with a large number of employees are not involved. Of course, when we look at a procedure that's very complicated, "expansion of facts", where one participant needs a collective contract, the minister wants to do so and needs the opinion of the Social-Economic Council. I have no doubt that this minister would do so, but God forbid he returns Dragan Milovanovic, who passed that law in 2001. He's not interested in it, he'd end it, let alone extend the fact of a collective contract. For these reasons, a special collective agreement would be eliminated for a longer period of time from the collective bargaining system as an irreplaceable legal act in equating labour conditions, and hence the socio-economic position of employees in a particular branch or activity at Serbia's level. For all these reasons, and the importance and support of the draft labour law – to give priority to collective agreements – we believe that this should also be a legal solution to enable them, i.e. collective agreements to be applied directly and to bind all employers, not just a very small number of employees. That is why we propose that this amendment be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12263	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12264	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected members of the self-region of Serbia's Independent Union on behalf of Socialist Party of Serbia counterparts Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic submitted to Article 255. The draft labour law, the amendment, which reads: "General and special collective agreements are directly applied and binding on all employers"... For us, one of the most important assumptions of collective bargaining is "equaling" working conditions for all employees. This amendment, if accepted, would guarantee it in the most acceptable way for the largest number of employees and, I dare say, for the largest number of employers. I don't see anything wrong with that. If we were to ask the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, one and the other, or the regional chambers of commerce, they would say about this colourfully, depending on what impact it has on these chambers; I have had these days to contact the representatives of the two regional chambers of commerce who understand this amendment and who support it to the extent that it is applicable, and it does not oppose the government and employers in the way that we have had the opportunity to hear it here. We also cannot accept that such experiences do not exist. They exist in several states. My colleagues have already listed what this is all about. I am surprised that some of the participants in writing this law, who have signed their signature on a harmonised draft or foremark of this bill, have now changed their attitude. Last night, I had the opportunity to listen to the dialogue between Mr. Cank and Mr. Ninkovic, the Union's employer. I must say that he is completely the opposite of what was offered in the media earlier as a coherent position on this issue. In fact, I don't know whose name they're talking about, what affected them to change their attitude. For me, these two participants are very important because they used to be advertised, too. I see their advertising last night as a public statement of attitude that is completely or partly contrary to what they said about this solution a month and a half ago or two months ago. For us, it is also an important question to whom Mr. Ninkovic represents. So, without any intention of being maligned, Mr. Ninkovic is the head of the Mason's Lodge Orient. All posts that operate between the Union of Employers and these mass lodges circulate to the same address, to the same mailbox, to the same fax box, and I really have to ask – do secret societies in Serbia have an impact on certain legal projects, how do they lobby, whose interests they work for and who they really represent?- I'm sorry. Serbian workers, Serbian employers deserve to be represented by someone who is not organised in secret societies. In this regard, there is a mystic that is interesting for the media, for a number of people who convince it, etc., but I remind you that we had a past government where the Rotari Club had a majority in that government: seven vice-presidents of the government or ministers wore the Rotari Club badge. Not to count them, not to make them an ad, because I don't do it for reasons I challenge their right to be, but I oppose the concept of being " ministers" in one government. This is a very important question for us, and the fact itself assures me completely that this amendment should be accepted, because when Mr. Ninkovic defends it in another way, I am absolutely sure that the arguments made in this amendment are such that they should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12265	There's an MP named Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12266	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Lalovic, we clearly advocate the direct application of the general and special collective contract to all employers, means those in the economy as well. Minister Lalovic's claim that if this amendment and amendment is adopted where the government is a direct participant in the conclusion of the contract, it will deter foreign investors from investment, it simply does not stand, at least in our opinion. The most important thing for foreign investment is political stability, the stability of institutions and the rule of law. After all, we had the Labour Act, a valid, today's law, where employers were "all" where employees had no such rights, so there was no investment, if we didn't count on only this money that came and went into the budget, from the companies sold. So the most important thing is political stability, the stability of institutions and the rule of law. But we had a situation that the previous government was a government without credibility. Why? What political stability, what stability of institutions, what rule of law?- I'm sorry. One vice-president of the government has been resolved and removed for a spy affair, the second prime minister of the government has been replaced because of a sex affair, the minister has been removed because of footing on the streets of Belgrade, half of the government has been hanging out with criminals, drinking whiskey in Schillerovo, according to Nebojsa Covic, the mafia has paved the roads. They say the mafia exists in all states. There are mafias in America, but they never paved the way for America!- I'm sorry. (President: Mr. Bushettic, please talk about the amendment. I'm talking about the amendment, Vice President. I am talking about the most important issue for foreign investors is political stability, the stability of institutions and the rule of law, and all this is missing. I'm talking about today. What's the situation today? And today the situation is very difficult, there is no political stability. Former government officials Ceda Jovanovic, Beba Popovic, orchestrated and chorusically attack the most important Serbian institutions: the church, the military, the Serbian Academy, and both politicians and the media in all of this. How do politicians do that? Our most prominent politicians are just talking about our country's international obligations, supposed to be. Let it be that there are those obligations. Has anyone in Serbia, from the president of the federal state, told the ministers about the international obligations of the international community? Why don't Solana conduct direct elections in Montenegro? We all know Solana can order it in half a minute. Why isn't Resolution 1244 being implemented? In that course are all our media, so to speak, all of them? What are they writing, what are they saying? There are only affairs on the agenda, scandals, lies, in all the newspapers, and in the Courier, in News, and on all the TVs! Here is Bogoljub Karic, who has taken over this Open Studio these days, what Soros is funding, while at the same time declaring itself to be for Serbian hosts! Does anyone think that the Serbian host is for Soros, for the International Crisis Group?- I'm sorry. Therefore, without this general political stability and without everyone on the task, both politicians and media, there is no luck for Serbia. But we are deeply hoping that there are politicians in Serbia, exactly that there are few, who are serious about this country, who think well of this country. For that very reason, we remain to hope that everything didn't fall apart, "when everything fell apart," as the great writer said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12267	The word is from Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12268	Dear People's MPs, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 255. Labour law, which concerns the issue of applying collective agreements. Articles 254, 255 and 256 constitute an essential part of this law and will depend on its application, practically, the success or failure of this law. Therefore, Serbian radicals are in favour and are against the selective application of the law, i.e. a general collective contract to individual employers, regardless of when the employer has signed or joined the Union or when he has signed the contract. I shall quote my amendment, this article shall be deleted whole and shall say, "The general and special collective contract shall be applied directly and binding on all employers". So this would be the maximum protection for employees. You protect employers with this law, and you put employees in an inferior position and, practically, don't protect them. In this next article, which will explain my distinguished colleague Petar Jojic, you are trying to enforce the so-called law. deregulation of relations, so that you can adopt something that you shouldn't have the law telling you, which will require the minister to decide which part of the collective agreements will be required by a certain employer. I think it's really incomprehensible and I've never seen it before. This amendment to the SRS is meaningful, rational and good. I see he's supported by others. So I ask you to vote for him in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12269	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, this is one of the most important members of the draft labour law submitted by the government to the National Assembly. Article 255 refers to the application of the collective agreement: "The general and special collective contract is directly applied and committed to all employers who are members of the employers' association – a participant of the collective contract at the time of the conclusion of the collective contract". In point 2, the following is said: "The collective contract under Article 1 also obliges employers who have subsequently become members of the employers' association – a participant of the collective contract, since the date of accession to the employers' association". Paragraph 3 states: "The collective contract binds the employer from Article 1 and 2 of this Article six months after leaving the employers' association – a participant of the collective contract". The SRS, or colleague Bozidar Koprivica, has submitted an amendment to Article 255 and we ask that this member be changed and it reads: "The general and special collective contract are directly applied and binding all employers". So, this section is deleted further, as I read in Article 255 behind this point, and the reasons for such an explanation – this amendment "increases the protection of employees". The draft law was attended by government and union representatives and they also insisted that such a member covering the application of the collective contract be the same as the SRS amendment. With this amendment, we also wanted to appeal, given that the government did not accept the amendment of Coprivica, or the SRS parliamentary group, to the parliamentary majority, that, in the voting day, if it wants Serbian citizens to do what it promised in the campaign, then, votes for the SRS amendment. It is not the essence of the amendment that the minister is constantly called in his presentations when he defends this law, the demagogue stories, that there are some forces in the Assembly that are backward, etc. First, all the amendments we have submitted, for the reason this law needs to be fixed, an existing law that passed the previous government and reversed Serbia's entire economy, has turned black. To speak in this way about amendments submitted by MPs, by the minister, is not correct. You can defend this bill, it is your task as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but the fact is that this law is not a law that protects employees. Of course it should protect employers, but mostly employees. Since we are a country in transition and you are referring to the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the directives, right here, in the case of an article. In 255 you could bear in mind that one of the strongest economic countries in the EU – Sweden has applied such a solution as the SRS suggests. You can't say that's not something that's not advanced. When you speak for this speaker, I think you use words that are not suitable for one minister, first of all, given that we are elected here by the citizens of Serbia. Respecting the ruling majority and you as minister, the SRS MPs, as the strongest opposition parties in Serbia and the strongest individual parties in Serbia, we have the support of citizens and we represent the interests of these citizens in this parliament. Our goal is to make this labour law look different than you suggested to the National Assembly. I hope that MPs of the ruling majority, especially the DSS, will vote in favour of the amendment tabled by counterpart Bozidar Koprivica. In addition, Articles 255 and 243 show the essence and nature of this bill. He doesn't change anything... (President: You're out of time. )......................................................................................................... does not change the nature of the applicable law. The essence of this bill is that this law should enable employees to protect their interests rather than protect only the interests of employers. You didn't refer to the government as having to be a guarantee of employees. Did you tell the truth when you were one of the leaders of the union organisations or are you now speaking as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? When did you tell the truth, now or then? Your task should be to bring bill proposals here, namely to propose to the National Assembly quality laws that will be in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, and we have submitted all these amendments to protect, above all, employees in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12271	The word has been given by the People's MP Vukjević.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12272	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment submitted to Article 255 speaks of the inevitable adoption of the amendment to Article 243. - that the government is a signator of collective agreements. Of course the government needs to be a signer. The amendments to Article 255 submitted by New Serbia lawmakers, as well as other parliamentary groups, require those who are not signatories of the treaty to respect the basic provisions of the collective agreement. Why do I say that? Because there must be basic criteria in this collective contract, that is: length of working time, minimum personal income, length of vacation and perhaps some other parameters for which the Government must guarantee that employers will meet them. What happens if the signatories of the collective contract honor the collective agreement and if there is an optionality of all those employers who did not sign the collective agreement? Then these employers can say – because of the difficult situation in the company, the minimum personal income or personal income that we will pay will be 3,000 or 4,000 dinars. That is why we believe that this assembly, we MPs, should adopt both the amendment to Article 243, and this amendment to Article 255. – that there is a general obligation of all employers to the basic criteria to be owned by one collective contract. Whether an employer will be a member of a Union or not, whether to pay a membership fee or not, it is a personal matter of the employer, but basic parameters of the collective contract must be respected by all employers and thus we will in a very good way protect the basic interests of the workers. That is why New Serbia will absolutely support this amendment and we will vote for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12273	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, here you are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12274	I'd really like to hear what brilliant mind this completely pointless 255 has come up with. It's a draft labour law. For the sake of the public, I will read this article, he says: "The general and special collective agreements are directly applied and committed to all employers who are members of the Association of Employers – a participant of the collective contract at the time of the conclusion of the collective contract". It's a very simple and very simple question - what about those employers who are not members of the employers' association? Who's going to make you, Minister Lalovic? You're not here. (Minister leaves the O.R.) Who's going to make employers join these employers' associations, so that as a consequence, they have an obligation to conclude a collective contract?- I'm sorry. Imagine what the government and this minister are saying, leaving the minister - yes, (responsibly to the comments from the hall) that the amendments are not accepted because "the collective agreement only obliges employers who are members of the Association of Employers of the collective contract, which is in line with IOR No.91's Recommendation. Now, this is really very offensive! Well, we're looking for this and he's explaining to us why he doesn't accept this amendment! Well, that's the same thing in this 255th article that the government has proposed, in the bill of this law! It seems to me that the minister thinks we're not smart enough, and it seems to me, but this is not the first time, that he brutally insults the intelligence of the Serbian people, and that could certainly cost the minister, and also the government that represents such an opinion of the minister. The other day I hear from a company in Rakovica, although I can't say the name of the company or the name of the person who told me that, because probably if I told you about it tomorrow, I wouldn't be at work -- this company sold out, a new employer came in, and, the woman who's the union president, when she's getting to know the new boss, she says: "Good afternoon, I'm the union president, and he's "what kind of union, what do I have with the union, go do if you want, if you don't want me to hear from you anymore, that you're the union president, otherwise you're flying from this company." Now, that is, my dear colleagues, the relationship of new employers, new owners in relation to employees and union organisations, which should protect employees' rights. And we legally legalize exactly that state. If this amendment and the amendments related to this area are not accepted then really nothing good is written to employees in Serbia. Who's the one who's gonna protect their rights? Who is it that will protect workers in Serbia, if this parliament will not, if it does not, if the Serbian government does not? Minister Lalovic says he spoke to the World Bank, the World Bank, when drafting the bill's proposal, with the IMF, everyone seems to except Serbian citizens, and everyone said this was an ideal solution. And then I remember that last one, Dragan Milovanovic, who has been here for days telling him that the same IMF and the same World Bank have said that his bill -- it's never been better done in the world, I guess, and beyond?- I'm sorry. Now, that disastrous law of his had disastrous consequences; I just want to remind myself that this law is still in force today, and that Serbia has never been brought into Parliament!- I'm sorry. Because it was voted in by the vote, from Thessaloniki, Borislav Novakovic, and it's simply something that they don't like to mention here. When it comes to stealing votes then it is said about Bodrum, and this Thessaloniki, which has done invaluable damage to the citizens of Serbia, primarily to the employees and those who remain unemployed in the meantime, is taboo – topic!- I'm sorry. That's why we Serbian radicals last February, or 4 February, asked the Assembly officially to put out force to "never bring" or "never legally bring" the Labour Act. Until today, our proposal has not seen the light of day. We expected this government, at least as bad as they talked about this law, which is still in force, to suggest something better, something smarter, but what was proposed is, my dear colleagues, catastrophic. Obligate employers to conclude collective agreements, otherwise our employees in Serbia fail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12275	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12276	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is obvious that Serbian citizens do not understand and accept the progress made by the Democratic Party, or DOS 2000. One way was the long-distance vote from Thessaloniki, which is now gone. I expected Radosavljevic to disappear in these elections in 2003, however, he remained still, but I suppose in the next elections, which will be this year, neither will he. I hope there won't be one of these, or ministers like this, but after these elections, because all that they've suggested so far is better if they didn't. However, I must commend the minister, he said during the debate on the work of three truths. The first is that he had moved that law to the employers. And, uh, there's kind of a slaughter stuck there. This law supports this slaughter towards employers, so that workers will literally remain unprotected. The second category, which the minister should be on, thanks to the fact that he is sitting on a portfolio that regulates it, that second category remains unprotected. The other truth he said, and I fully agree with him, at least 300,000 people will lose their jobs with this law and restructuring of public enterprises. The third truth he said is different concepts. Well, of course there are different, completely different concepts of us from the Serbian Radical Party, which we want to protect the workers, and him who protects the employers. Because this law is protecting employers from the first to the last member. National MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted this amendment asking for a general and special collective agreement to be applied directly and to bind all employers. This means: for employers who have entered various unions and employers who have entered various associations of employers, such as Karic, and for employers who have not felt the need to join themselves anywhere. He owns it, he bought the factory, and since he bought it, it's a different story now. How many workers were employed in it, and how many are left, that's another story again. Which he would even be involved in some kind of union, if the next day some normative acts of these unions bound him. The man has invested his capital, wants to pull out the maximum and draws the maximum. The argument given by the Government states this way: "Amendments are not accepted for the reason that the collective agreement only binds employers who are members of the Association of Employers of the collective contract, which is in line with the IOR Recommendation No. 91". Furthermore, "The fact that a special collective contract is applied can also be extended to employers who are not signatories of a collective contract, which is in accordance with Article 5 of that Recommendation. This decision can be made by the minister, if there are reasons set out in Article 256." Therefore, the IOR's recommendation does not say that only the members of the employers' union must, but the minister will decide. That means - trust me on my word of honor, because I'm a minister, my parliamentary group has proposed, the ruling coalition has chosen me, and you have to trust me. And Karic already announces that he has 40 and some MPs, mostly from the ruling structure. Now you gentlemen ask each other who made the deal with Karic. If he can buy MPs, why can't he buy a minister? However, they will give a little more, because the minister is one at the job, but he will surely buy it, especially such a minister, who gets picked up and comes out as soon as someone has anything to say against him. His narcissism doesn't interest us at all. It will lay down the reasons for whether employers who are not in the Union should also sign a collective agreement. How many green bills, though now there are oranges, these euros are at stake, how many orange bills will be able to convince the minister that he finds that I don't have to sign a collective contract as an employer. Let him give the pricer, so he knows all of Serbia how much it costs. Who guarantees that he will perform honestly. We see how fair he is and how honest he listens to all Serbian citizens. We were sent here by the citizens of Serbia, and they sent him here, and he is obliged to sit here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12277	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12278	It also began on the second day of the debate on a fundamentally one amendment, which includes several members, and this debate today, and especially yesterday's, is essentially a time frame to reach agreement on the parliamentary majority, i.e. the parties that are in power and those who support them. Is the law gonna fall or something? Since those who follow this debate can be somewhat mistaken, what is the point here? It is that collective bargaining and bargaining involve associations of employers and associations of employees who are representative and in this representativeness sees their power and power that what they sign becomes binding, has the form and name of the contract, and is essentially a single general act. We also ask that the government participate in the general collective agreement, and when it comes to the special collective agreement, only that representative representative of employers and trade unions. The question is, what is the legal nature of these legal acts? They were created as a result of consensus, negotiation, negotiations and are in the form of contracts, but it is essentially about general acts. To remind the promoter, probably in 50 before this, and especially in the reasons of the government's opinion, which refutes our amendments, the billmaker has clearly put a sign of equality in many places or an approximately sign of equality between this law as a minimum of rights and general and a special collective contract, and even individual acts that also regulate individual issues from working relationships. What is prescribed by a general collective contract in a broad sense belongs to what is called business conditions. I guess all economic operators in our single market should have the same operating conditions. Business is a security of labour and guaranteeing the rights of people who are employed. There is no excuse that one who was not a member of the Employers' Association has no obligation like all other employers. As there is no excuse that one who leaves the Association of Employers can only have six months to have an obligation regarding what his association, while being a member, has signed. So the collective contract is a matter of form and manner of how the general act occurred. This general act obliges all, as it enters into business conditions and all economic operators, regardless of the form of organisation and form, must have the same conditions. On the other hand, employees cannot be in unequal conditions just because they changed their employers. And that is why the general collective agreement must have a binding power towards everyone, and the authority of this act is obtained by having the previous provisions of the Government convinced us that it comes to who is the representative representative of employers and employee representatives. It's just a miracle the government didn't accept this. I understand that she is running away from being one of the signatories of a general collective agreement, but why this amendment, which does not concern this status, but concerns the legal position of the contract as a general act, has not accepted and thus does not disrupt its concept.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12279	The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12280	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in principle, I criticised the resolutions of this law and how the debate was under way, and in particular the address of the Secretary-General, I became even more convinced that I was right when I said that the bill was a step forward in relation to the current Labour Law. However, when it comes to Article 255 of this law, I now see that this is five steps backwards. The amendment submitted by the People's MP Bozidar Koprivica to Article 255, should be accepted, and here's why. The application of collective agreements under Article 255 of this Act is determined by the Convention of the International Labour Organisation, which is number 98. The Convention is simple and clear, as is the amendment proposed by the MPs of the SRS. At the same time, he understands both for workers and employers and as such acceptable. Who is he not acceptable to? Of course, for the proposed law, for the government, for the competent ministries. The law hasn't been passed yet and they're afraid. From who? They fear dissatisfied workers who will lose their jobs, regardless of the collective contract, and of unprofessional and unsuccessful employers. The minister listened to his ignorant advisers who certainly had no idea and "lyo crocodile tears" and convinced this parliament and workers that this is the best law and that it offers the best solutions for workers. He can't defend that thesis for sure. I wonder who the crocodile is here, me who mentioned the workers "October 14", "Tradila", "Zupe", or the minister who can swallow workers and trade unions and employers all together. Gentlemen, MPs, the government and the minister must know one thing, and that is certainly true, that work in many businesses in Serbia is based on the "go-get". The class is busy, the class is gone, and especially in construction, the processing of forest, agricultural products, and until yesterday, solid companies. The work takes place for 20 or 30 days, then the interruption, then 15 to 20 days again, and the interruption, so on and so on. It's a reality. It was all the former regime's fault from 2000 to 2004, which was attended by the former minister, and he did not mention the time. Finally, behind the workers' association, employers, unions, should stand a stable government and strong, but with the SRS at the helm. Since the minister is not here, here he comes, I have to tell him that Serbia is not a wonder country, but that he is a strange man, Serbia is a country where the sun never sets, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12281	Thank you. Here you are, MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12282	Ladies and gentlemen, by amendment to Article 255. The proposal for this law regulates the situation of an extended fact of collective agreements. Does the provisions of collective agreements also apply to non-signature employers? Two things should be pointed out here: in a situation where employees are not members of any union obligation taken by the union under the provisions of general or special collective agreements, they also refer to those employees who are not members of the trade union, on the other hand, the possibility is given to employers that only the provisions of collective agreements apply to those employers who are members of the representative employers' association and do not apply to those employers who are not in that association. We come to an absurd situation, that the provisions of a collective agreement refer to employees who are not members of any union or are members of a union that is not representative, on the other hand, the provisions of that collective contract do not apply to its employer at all. However, in the next Article 256. (which will now be after the debate over this Article 255) The decision to extend the fact of the collective contract to employers who are not signatories of the collective contract is left to the Minister. However, there is a kind of problem, in my view, insurmountable to the minister, which is that he must obtain the opinion of the Social-Economic Council, and this, a positive opinion, in order to decide that he has an extended fact on the contract and on the employer. The Social-Economic Council consists of six representatives of the government, six representatives of representative trade unions and six representatives of representative employers' associations. Decisions are made by consensus and in practice it will be simply inexecutable. It will be an insurmountable problem for the minister to get a positive opinion that the Social-Economic Council gives a positive opinion that it could decide on an extended action of collective bargaining. We think the amendment proposed by the SRS is extremely important and needs to be adopted, because it will have negative consequences, and above all, for the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12283	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12284	Now I just realized how dangerous it is to sit in the back rows, half an hour ago I answered my word. The SPS and MPs Zarko Obradovic and Misa Petronijevic have submitted an amendment to this member, and we believe the moment has come when the minister must say whether he wants this law or not, and especially after Mr Vukicevic, a representative of the NS parliamentary group, who said he would vote for this amendment. In fact, it creates a condition for this amendment to be adopted no matter what the minister says or not. As far as we're concerned in the SPS, of course, we have no dilemma that, even though this amendment is not adopted, and if the union doesn't agree, then we won't vote for the law. We think this law is much better than that "anti-worker" or what they call "salonica" law, which has been in force until today. Of course, the Thessaloniki fronts and laws have always created problems in Serbia and it's been difficult for us, but this "Solun" law has made life very difficult for many workers. I don't understand the occasion and the rush, and so much forging at all costs that the idea of the employers' association is being advocated, when it comes to Zagorec and Ninkovic and the like, when there is a simple form to resolve the issue. The Chamber of Commerce is a force that should represent the employer, of course, the minister will tell me immediately, but may disagree, because they are a professional association, and more specifically, by law they are mandatory and not voluntary. How do we solve this? Let us now pass the law and end their obligation. Otherwise, they are now involved in politics, so when they become voluntary they will not be involved in politics, they will deal with workers and businesses. Therefore, I ask you to propose at the next session of the Assembly that we amend the Law on Chambers of Commerce, that we abolish the obligation of their organisation and payment of membership and that they simply drop "hunts" without meaning, as they should, and they are not even obliged to care for workers. Then why do we need a Chamber of Commerce? What's protecting this Chamber of Commerce? What's it for? For nothing! He can't deal with collective agreements, he can't represent employers, so who does he represent? He doesn't represent anyone, except he collects income and makes political speeches, this director over there and the president of the Chamber of Commerce. So, please Minister, if you really want to have representatives of employers, then take those who have strength. The Chamber of Commerce has power, and it will have even greater power when they are on a voluntary base and base and when they are interested in the real owners of capital and employers being tied up and grouped in the Chamber of Commerce. So, on the one hand, we're holding, I don't know, like some growing turkey, for Christmas, the Chamber of Commerce, and on the other hand we want to negotiate with the chickens and that they represent the workers. You can't do that. It's totally imaginary. There's something you won't tell us. Then you have a personal interest there to be either to support the Chamber of Commerce or to force Zagorec or this Ninkovic. As the previous government at all costs forced Milovanovic, he had 10 workers and four boards of directors. Then they forced Chanko to shut down the Independent Union. That's not possible. You can't stop something that exists. You were trying to shut down the SPS in the last government. We had 700,000 members, and you say you're ashamed when you're asked, you say don't ask me that, says, that's an offensive question for me to ask if I was a member of the SPS. We took care of who we took to the SPS, Mr. Minister, we took care of it, so the Independent Union kept an eye on who they were taking to the Alliance of Independent Unions. Those who went to Milovanovic's, it was a completely different structure and anti-work structure. That's how it is when it comes to the Chamber of Commerce. Come on, suggest amending the law and that we have really three pillars: the Independent Union, the Government and a Voluntary Chamber of Commerce, not a professional one who only takes money. Then we'll have a law that's enforceable. Like this, any law to adopt, especially if the amendment is adopted, and I hope it will be adopted, then we will have problems with the rights of workers again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12285	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 256 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12286	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that the MPs of the SRS questioned the provisions of Articles 254, 255 and 256. We have also had the opportunity to hear the MPs from other parties, which contributes to the claim by the SRS that it is necessary to protect the interests of workers and not make any difference or discrimination. Under the provisions of Article 256 of the proposal for this law, if adopted, we would have great discrimination, we would leave the possibility for employers and ministers to decide what needs to be decided by employees. If this amendment is accepted, and it seems that MPs have figured out what this is about, that the fundamental change in the proposal is necessary and important, otherwise, in practice, will cause great damage and will result in catastrophic consequences for employees, or workers. So, if the power remains to have the minister decide on it, it is not a constitutional category. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to fix this text and the minister has the opportunity to accept this amendment and the amendment to the Koprivica Bozidara, as this introduces effectiveness in the application of the Labour Act in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12287	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12288	Article 256 The draft labour law is particularly dangerous and I'll tell you why. I will quote only the first point: "The Minister can decide that collective agreement or certain provisions of it are applied to employers who are not members of the employers' association – a participant of the collective contract". This kind of authority to give to Minister Lalovic, another minister, this is really amazing. Why are we particularly afraid that such authority should be given to Minister Lalovic? It was because of that Industry Association, because of Bogoljub Karic, who once founded a party whose member is a minister, due to the likely obligation of the minister to Bogoljub Karic. He's got a lot of obligations, but I don't mind him making his commitments to Karic and so on. "industrials" meets, but I repeat what I said earlier, not through the law, not through the National Assembly, and at least, not through employees in Serbia. It is inadmissible, and otherwise the position of the Serbian Radical Party on every law when we spoke, wherever it was envisaged that the minister was given individual powers in addition to what was provided for in the Government Act, we were always against it because one man must not have such authority, without control, and especially what was talked about by the towers yesterday while we were waiting for the minister to decide whether to withdraw this bill or, however, to approve himself and to let this law be discussed until the end, it was heard that the minister had done this bill without consulting with representatives of the parties forming power. It is their business and their problem, but the problem of ministers is that it is obvious that in this room the majority of the commitment to vote for this amendment of the SRS and for all amendments relating to mandatory signing, the conclusion of collective agreements. I hope that the MPs, at least those who support such amendments for this speaker, will show it in the voting day, that they will vote in favour of these amendments and thus force the minister to do what would be logical, because if the National Assembly, and I hope so, adopt these amendments, then that means that the concept of the law that the minister has proposed is completely changed. And everywhere in the world, the most normal thing is if the Assembly doesn't accept the concept of a minister's bill that the minister has a nice resignation, he says -- thank you, goodbye, I don't know how to do the will of the people. I am convinced that Minister Lalovic will do the same, because I am convinced that you, dear colleagues, will also vote for this amendment of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12289	The word has a folk MP, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and Momir Markovic, Zoran Krasic, and Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group, has tabled an amendment to Article 256, i.e. counterpart Petar Jojic, MP of our parliamentary club, where we are asking for a membership of 256. The draft labour law, which the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to the National Assembly, deleted. It is absolutely clear that, from all this that we have put behind this speaker when it comes to the members of 255 and 256 of the Labour Law, the SRS believes that by refusing the SRS amendment, it has shown that there is no desire, no will to repair the existing, valid law, or to propose to the National Assembly, which would correct the injustice committed by the Democratic Party as the ruling party in the previous government; which, ultimately, has brought all employees in Serbia into a humiliating position and did everything in yesterday's Assembly to make a circus out of this assembly and to remove the topic from the main problems that affect all citizens of Serbia, which are: social problems, economic situation in the country and all that this government has to solve. She made a commitment when she agreed to rule Serbia, to rule in the interests of Serbian citizens, not at the expense of employees, or all citizens of the country. The essence of this Article 256 is precisely the essence of this bill. It can be seen that the nature of this bill is not going to fix much of the existing law that applies, the Labour Act adopted by the Democratic Party, which destroyed the economy in Serbia and brought Serbia to the brink of social misery and all citizens of Serbia, and especially the economy that has completely wrapped in black. The objection we can make to the government about this is that it has not shown a desire to make this bill in a way that will protect the interests of the state's employees, which will protect the vital interests of all citizens in Serbia. It is absolutely unacceptable for the minister to decide on individual rights, and we cannot agree on that, that is, the application of a collective agreement, which is referred to in Articles 255 and 256. I will read Article 256 because the public should pay good attention to this, what Article 256 says, and what all the Ministers on the basis of this proposal proposed by the Government to the National Assembly should do: "The Minister may decide to apply the collective contract or certain provisions of the National Assembly to employers who are not members of the Association of Employers – participants of the collective contract". So, the minister is given some rights that are absolutely in collegiate with the interests of the employees. In any case, the minister should have proposed a far better law to address staff issues, i.e. to protect the interests of employees, and that is the aim of our amendments to the National Assembly, and the government simply rejected most of the SRS amendments, did not accept them and showed no desire to fix the existing law, which has passed the former government of the Democratic Party, which has reversed Serbia for 33 years, and is constantly calling for it to be the one leading Serbia to Europe. You may bring Serbia to Europe in 2099 with your policies, especially how you work at the levels of local self-government from Belgrade, so wherever you were in power, you destroyed that there was no stone left on the stone. After all, if you do not accept the amendments to the SRS, you will show that you are the same as the previous authorities of the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12291	MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12292	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will continue reading this article for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. We have information that one of the greatest ratings yesterday and today is just transferring the session of the Assembly, for the simple reason that citizens are interested in deciding on this law. He says this: "A decision under Article 1 of this article may be taken by the minister if there is a legitimate interest, and in particular: 1) in order to achieve economic and social policy in the Republic of Serbia, in order to ensure equal working conditions that represent the minimum rights of employees" etc. ... and "2) to mitigate income differences in a particular branch, group, subgroup and work that significantly affect the social and economic situation of employees resulting from unfair competition, provided that a collective contract whose fact is extended binds employers" etc. So, "non-national competition". Two employers, same subject of business, same product. One managed to take off its workers' salary below the existential minimum, its product is cheaper. The other one has a slightly higher cost of production, its product is a little more expensive, and the minister "can decide". Therefore, the Minister is entitled to decide whether parts of collective agreements, which bind employers, although not members of the Union, especially if they are not members of the Union, will be equalised to the remuneration of employees. The Minister will decide or he won't decide! Isn't that, ladies and gentlemen, especially when it comes to this segment, isn't that a lot of rights to one man, especially when we know that most of those who today represent the industrial power of Serbia, as they tend to say, those who represent a group that literally through privatisation during the previous period robbed Serbia, who today have incredible funds, who bought for three or four euros in factories and who can now buy the 40 MPs that I spoke about a little bit?- I'm sorry. Won't they be in a position to ask after she's a kilo of the minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12293	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12294	This amendment to Article 256 constitutes a logical continuation of the previous amendments, but also affects Article 257 and what is required by the amendment to delete Article 256 makes it logical to delete what is referred to in Article 257. In order not to repeat the argument and the reasons that my predecessors gave me, I'll only use two moments. The first moment is that one cannot, no matter what function it is, be above the general act. It's not appropriate to our legal system. Whoever pushes it this way, he sends a message – that he was not serious when he talked about the socio-economic council, that he was not serious when he talked about the contract as sacred. It simply shows that he's been in this operation in layman's way. Then no wonder there are two days to talk about a few of these amendments, until an agreement is reached on what will fall or what will be withdrawn. This is obviously a failure. This whole operation called the Labour Law bill is a failure. If the law withdraws from the procedure, then someone would have to compensate for this misdemeanour that has been going on for five or six days, and if a bill like this was forced to pass without taking into account such amendments, then both majority and minority partners in this government or those supported by this government, they would have to come out and explain what they've done. They would have to explain what they've done, because it's just amazing that the parties that the left-wing parties propose this kind of labour law run over everything they've been called on, not only during the election campaign, but I guess it's also a feature of their ideology, as political parties. It will likely be a problem for those parties who support the minority government, which also wants to be a member of the Socialist International, as well. Don't you on the left, arguing, to question both the government and the bill, and I must say this perspective. Here, for 50 years, we've had a condition that occurs as a result of a left-wing fight. However, there is one saying in Western Europe, which says, "They fight as social Democrats". That's the usual statement. We need very precise and clear solutions. No one can put out of force something that, through negotiation, negotiation, in the form of a contract, was created and formed as a general act. If this logic were accepted, then it would mean that the treaty and the accession agreement, which you are seeking, could also be put out of force by some minister and said it would not apply, so it will not be applied selectively, so it will not be applied like this or applied like this. Then why is this power in the hierarchy of the government of the minister, when the government does not want to participate in collective bargaining? From where the right of someone to put a general act out of force or to selectively apply, that is to say, to allow selective things not to apply, all drawn up by the story that this is necessary because we are being followed by investments. I must remind you, you who are the original DOS, DOS plus - minus, as it is called, you forgot one promise in 2002. We're in 2005 and now we need to start importing labour. That's a promise. Well, the presidential campaign and 500,000 new jobs. Don't get all worked up about this now, how to stop it. I'm just letting you know that you've stepped deep into that phase.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12295	Is anyone else answering for the amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 283 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Member of the 283rd amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12296	Article 283 reads: "Selection of the Fund's body, in accordance with the provisions of Art. 283. 129. – In 136th of this law, it will be implemented by 1 January 2005 at the latest." It will be adopted on 1 January 2005. A year?- I'm sorry. I really think that the government, that President Kostunica would have to buy one calendar in each ministry to put, that people would know when it was January 1, 2005! Secondly, we are again in a situation where red tape, thanks to the laws that we have passed, which we are going to bring, is expanding. The agency will no longer be called because it is not a proper name, but it will be called a fund and we will again have tens of thousands of employees in Serbia in that fund and again someone will draw money. And I'm asking -- where were the social money so far, where the money was, and what was wrong with the money still staying there, and what was wrong with the fact that if the money was passed by this law, that the money would be distributed there and distributed to those who needed to be distributed?- I'm sorry. What it means to form a fund, then a fund manager who will have 200,000 to 300,000 salaries, so he will have his assistants, deputies, and work bodies and so on to the lowest clerk. How much will the establishment of the administration that this fund needs to serve cost the state and from which money will it be compensated? It's from the money this country is devoting for social issues. I don't think there should be a fund. If you wanted to form it, it passed on January 1, 2005, take a look at the calendar.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12297	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Serbian citizens, Momir Markovic, the SRS MP has tabled an amendment to Article 283. It's a bill of law. The government has not accepted the amendment, but has given reasons, for reasons, "because the education of the Solidarity Fund bodies takes a certain time, which is also proposed in Amendment II of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the same member of the bill", which will say that the government has proposed, in a way, an identical amendment to Article 283. It's a draft labour law. I am speaking from this speaker as a national MP from the SRS and I will again appeal to all MPs of the National Assembly that our amendments, which we have submitted to the Law on Work submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, had a clear aim of making this bill, which was not harmonised and done in the way that the public expected it, especially the employees in Serbia, to fix, to make it more favourable for the employees and for employers, in the end, for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia. I hope that all MPs in this assembly, the ruling majority, taking into account that during these few days, speaking about the amendments to the SRS, will defend attitudes above all, not only of the SRS, but of all employees in Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, we will vote in favour of amendments that are key and submitted by the SRS. I'm not going to list them by the members again. I think you've had a good chance to hear it. We went out for this pay phone, using the right to do business, to point out to the public and the minister for the moment that we're all in, where the state is. Our goal is to, by adopting these amendments in the Assembly, if you vote for them, do this law that is not good for you, and if you do not vote for our amendments, you will not change the nature of the previous law, which has been passed by previous DS authorities, I stress once again, which has brought the citizens of Serbia and all the employees down, to the edge of Serbia's social existence, where several hundred thousand people are left without a job. We insist that you pay attention for this reason in the voting day and support all amendments to the SRS. That way you'll show that you're different from the previous DS government. If you do not do so, you will be just as they are. Therefore, that bill will not change anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12299	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12300	It is likely that, thanks to this amendment, this fund will be formed within some period that applies to the future, not the past, as it is written in this bill, but this amendment best shows what the bill is all about. He is deliberately sloppy, legally unspeakable, confused so that the government and the authorities can always eskicipate. The culprit is always as far away as possible, not in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which functions as an NGO and thus appears to be financing. That conclusion states what is stated and written in Article 277. – as this shows great concern for employees, and on the issues of how deadlines are set and thus shows attention. Article 277 states: "The employer is obliged to close a contract with employees who have established a working relationship until the day of entry into force of this law, and they do not have a final working contract", but it is true, "to conclude a contract on the regulation of mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities", the right to the nature of this contract is not known and I am not opening that question and it is not important for what I am going to say at the end, he says, "which contains the elements of Article 33(1) of this law, except from the point. 4) – 8).’ Article 2 - "The contract of Article 1 does not build a working relationship. "In what time is the employer obliged to do so? Since it's not an important deadline here, it's a basic question for an employee who doesn't have a work contract. The government admits – there are employees who do not have a contract on work, but work, they are in a working relationship, there can be no contract on work now because only a working relationship is based, because they have previously established, we have a special contract on each other's rights, obligations, etc. from the Socialist Self-Government Society, etc., mastering the working class through the overall reproduction, etc. But there's no time limit for an employer to do that. This is in transitional and final provisions. There's no sanctions, there's no deadline, but it's a "important deadline" in which a fund is to be formed. So, where there's money, that's important. Where the rights of the employee are, it doesn't matter, it doesn't interest the promoter. The promoter had a basic concept to make a bill, to take away from their previous government, to say our law is not ideal, but it's better than that bad law, so here's a dead race between the two laws that is worse. The media, take care of the workers, the RTS, the letters or the pictures yesterday about how you shot yourself here, because it doesn't matter, until the day the government informs us that we don't have a state. That's the whole point. Then it just appears as a single manner, you'll see it on the next item of the agenda, where relatively good rules for discontinuity change, and even at the risk that what it offers is bad, that it will change again, maybe even go back to what it was before. It is probably not necessary for Serbian citizens to have such a government, with manners like this. No matter how much you eskicipate your commitment, you spread capillaries, funds, directorates, governmental, non-governmental, formal, informal, who knows what other groups, your concept – "government without government" has failed. It can't live in Serbia. Make sure Karic, the richest man who cares most about the poor, shares his shirts with his face and inscription, and believe that he is able to control the media. He'll probably get into a situation where he'll reprove you slightly and warn you, and then he'll ask you where his people are.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12301	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word for the People's MP, Marco Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12302	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, indeed this law was released into the procedure, i.e. reached the Assembly on 26.11. last year, means in November, and there was really no possibility of a regular assembly procedure being adopted and announced, so that it could be applied this provision to take effect from the first entry into force, and to choose the bodies of the fund. That was impossible. This is the proposalr's failure and the promoter has corrected this failure with the amendments. However, I have the impression that somehow the climate is being created that it is not good that the state takes care of workers whose companies are bankrupt. I think that's very good. I don't think that's what the state's been worried about so far and it wasn't right. It is very good that the state takes care of workers whose companies are bankrupt. It's very good that the state will pay nine salaries, nine earnings to those workers whose companies are bankrupt. I think it's very good for this law and we need to support one of these provisions. I think that the state not only assumes obligations in relation to this, but assumes the obligation to pay compensation for damages, severances, and all that from state funds. So, the state does not rely on the employer, but itself takes that risk and wants to pay the salary to make it easier for these workers to have a material position. I don't see what's wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12303	Anyone else want a word? Here's a word from MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12304	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in yesterday's presentation, I tried to say what would happen if the state decided to launch bankruptcy in a company where the state is a majority owner, to solve the problem of paying back the earnings, and as they say in one provision of the law: "earning fees in nine months". If that company hasn't paid more than nine months' wages, and if this profits are paid in minimum earnings, it's a fraud. It's the robbery of that number of workers working in that company where the state is an employer, and that's the danger I see. If a state which is not able to address the business restructuring problem in the best way or in the desired way, where the state is a majority owner or where the social capital is at stake for this solution, in accordance with this law, then it is a very "unfavourable solution" for all those who have had the misfortune to work for the last few years in these enterprises, and the employer – state, owner or some social enterprise did not pay, I hope, the earned profits of a greater number of months than the state now offers through this solution and this provision of the law. It's not practically good because a huge disproportionateity in which the state, an employer, was supposed to pay the worker through profits compared to what is offered by this law, through minimum earnings. We'll see if that happens soon enough. if they reach for such a solution, one of the worst solutions, especially in that part if the state does not cover an internship in that number of months where pension and disability insurance contributions have not been paid. It will be one of the worst situations for all employees who have had an accident in the last year, two or more working in these companies, where these relationships have not been solved faster. The privatisation is not done quickly, the restructuring problem is not resolved, it's slow going, there's a lot of problems in the state, there's a lot of systems, there's a lot of companies, there's a lot of employees, and I know that there's no way to do it in some time, or how we'd like to do it, but we're in a situation where the state owns the company, doesn't invest in crafts, there's no business, there's no production cycle running, all the problems are very slowly solved, and all the laws that are being passed in terms, and we've praised that we've passed a good bankruptcy act, that this is going to be quick, that it won't wait long, it's going to be shorter, but it's not going to go, then, that licensed managers will be experts who are going to do it better, it won't be expensive. It's all slow, it's not enough for our misfortune, it's not what we'd like it to be. I don't see any good solutions or fast solutions, but if this happens, you run a bankruptcy on these companies and start applying, a large number of workers will be very bitter, dissatisfied and never forgive you for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12305	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 285 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted the amendment to Article 285. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the bill in particular, does the proposing representative, Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy want the final word? Here you go, Mr. Lalovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12306	Thank you. I think it deserves at the end of this multi-day debate to say a few words about what we've been doing these days and what we've done. First, I would like to point out one thing that speaks of the manner in which some laws are discussed in the congregation. It seems to me that a lot of what has been said, so repeatedly the same, has a direct connection to the degree of ratings rather than the quality of the law or the interest of work... So here... [[growls]] (speaks au... )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12307	Please, just a moment. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse the Ministers, please, Members of Parliament - in the closing statement, the minister, of course, also responds to the remarks made. The presentation of one MP referred to the ratings data, and I understand that it was mentioned. Please allow the Minister the final word. Be kind and thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12308	Thank you. And that's how it shows, for example, when the government's amendment to a member is commented. In 283 or another where it says that the Government in the proposal has made certain things happen since 1 January 2005, and then the calendar is mentioned, in an attempt to create such an atmosphere and images, that is the idea, everything remains irrelevant. And it's a fundamental thing that, when you do the bill, in the autumn of last year, and you refer it to Parliament for adoption, it's logical to set some deadlines, so when you see that the law goes later, it won't arrive, then the government, which is normal, intervenes with its amendment and settles these things. So it's not about any calendars, it's about the tendency to create an atmosphere and a particular image, which has nothing to do with reality when it comes to this law, or reality in Serbia. On these small examples, in fact, this approach is shown, which, in my opinion, is not at all in the interests of Serbia's employment, which has been talked about so much, but in other interests. As regards these concrete amendments, which have been the subject of special attention here, this is the question of the government's participation in the conclusion of a general collective agreement and the issue of direct application of the general and special collective agreement. I have repeatedly pointed out in my presentations why it should not be accepted. And since this was the subject of the debate today, also in an attempt to create a picture of Serbia's citizens and the employment of Serbia, which is a complete error, and I will show that adoption is so in their interest, which is trying, however unsuccessfully, to do. So I'll repeat a few reasons or arguments why it's wrong. Between these two amendments, which are important here, where one speaks of the government being a participant of the general collective agreement and the other, to ensure direct application, law enforcement, general and special collective contract to all employers in Serbia, regardless of whether they are members of the association or not. As far as this first one is concerned, around the government as a participant, it's basically just too much. He is, of course, the opposite of Convention No 98 of the International Labour Organisation, but it is obviously completely irrelevant to some MPs in this House. Of course that's not what's crucial. So, if these two amendments were to be ranked, this first one when it comes to a government participant, it's simply pointless, and when it comes to direct application, it's a direct harmful action. So it's a different quality. If theoretically, and I'm sure that's not going to happen, the Assembly would adopt an amendment that the government would be a participant in the general collective agreement, there would be no direct damage. So there'd be no condition here or there, no special momentary significance at all. But when it comes to direct application, it is a direct vermin amendment, because as a direct consequence of the adoption of such an amendment, in fact, would be justified remarks, which I have listened to for several months from the employer's side, that this, this bill, would be an obstacle to investing in Serbia. So, if the MPs adopted this, then that opposition from the employers would be fully in place and then I would agree with it. So, if something like this is adopted, the immediate consequence of direct application is that it would worsen anyway not a good situation for investing in the Serbian economy. We are very dissatisfied, as you know, with the level of investment in the Serbian economy, and the question of investing in the Serbian economy is the question of the life and death of the Serbian economy. So if, in such a situation, something that makes it more difficult and makes investment conditions worse, it is in the most direct direct relationship with the significant deterioration of the positions of those on which tears and concerns have been shed here today. Simply Serbia's citizens and workers in Serbia should know; if what happens, that MPs here adopt an amendment that determines the direct application of the general and special collective contract, the direct consequence of this, and the short- and medium-term, will be the deterioration of the economic and economic situation in Serbia, will be the reduction of the number of jobs, will be the inability to create new jobs in Serbia, as this is directly linked to investment. Of course, every MP is left with the will and conscience to plead on this amendment, but it is my duty to warn the MPs of the consequences of such an attitude or behavior. There's been a series of arguments about why it needs to be done one way or another, whether it needs a Chamber of Commerce or not, etc., so let's simplify things. I have already said that, but once again to say -- if the Serbian Chamber of Commerce were an organisation that would not provide income from mandatory membership and everything else, then we could include the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in social dialogue. This way, it's simply completely impossible. I talked, in my own time, about it and the people of the Chamber of Serbia, but that's a special story. So we simply have to accept those employers and those voluntary associations that exist. Now about that one little note, although, of course, I won't go down to the level that was partially present here, where it goes to the person of the MP or minister, it's below my level. So, I'm not going to comment at all, but just one fact that can point to something about that remark. So, the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy in the process of establishing the representativeness of employers and trade unions established the representativeness of the Union of employers of Serbia, and failed to determine the representativeness of the Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, because they delivered some 30,000 "malinaires" in their papers, which we could not accept as employers. It's just the truth works and the citizens of Serbia are doing it, and I certainly won't go "ad personam" like some MPs used to, because that's not the level to talk about. So, when it comes to direct application, more things are said about this, and the concept proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on solving the problem that we are, of course, aware of and because the Government of the Republic of Serbia is aware of this problem, we have foreseen a mechanism that knows the normal world, because we believe that Serbia should belong to the normal world, not to the abnormal world. Because we think that Serbia deserves to be part of the normal world, then we have foreseen a mechanism in the Labour Law proposal, which solves the problem that exists and which is partly indicated here, but it cannot be solved and cannot be solved by direct application. It's a key thing and it's a key difference in concepts. What do we say? Of course, the collective contract concluded applies only to participants of the collective contract, those who were in the Employers' Association, who participated in it, who could even ask about it. This is the first position, every collective contract, I repeat again because of the citizens of Serbia, and also because of you to hear it again, every collective contract is a "contract" and it can commit the parties that have concluded it. He can't commit to parties that haven't concluded the contract, so that's the elemental thing, besides civil law. Then what are we doing? How to solve a problem that exists realistically, that not all employers at the Association, etc. So, by respecting what the normal world knows, that's attitude one. (Art. 256) What do we say in Section 2? At another important point? But because it can happen, it is stated in the law what can happen and what are the reasons for it to happen. First of all, there are two reasons to prevent unfair competition between employers who are not subject to a collective contract and those to which it is applied while at the same time equating the position of employees working with employers to whom it is not applied. In order to overcome this solution, it is envisaged that it can be defined, the decision is made on the expanded action of such a concluded collective agreement. And in a way. By predicting the conditions first, which is not in the current law, so it was possible – complete arbitraryness. The conditions under which this could happen, and then we said that the Economic and Social Council should deliver an opinion, should have the minister, i.e. the Ministry, get an opinion. He's not saying positive or negative, he's saying to get an opinion. Secondly, it's not binding. And the third most important, binding, not binding, most importantly, I speak formally, now I'm going to say the point. In the Economic and Social Council, who is located? Who are the members? Representatives of those associations who have concluded a collective agreement. Representative trade unions, representative employers and government. What the minister will never get is consent. So it's a completely inappropriate remark. It's logical that it's an interest, so those who have concluded a contract to expand to others. I think the situation will be reversed, that they will propose as many decisions as possible on the extended action, and that the minister will have to stop it a little bit, not that the minister will not be able to decide, for God's sake, they will not agree. So the elemental fact is out of sight, who's in the socio-economic council. So this whole story is completely inappropriate when it comes to this. Once again here, we will either look like normal countries or we will not, and therefore choose the MPs of this assembly. The choice is free, but the consequences are what they are. Another piece of information for MPs, because it has been mentioned several times that something does not require or cannot allow the minister as an individual to decide on an extended action, which is in itself a problem. So, you should know that in countries such as France, Belgium and other countries, there is a mechanism everywhere to bring a minister, but in order not to call on France and Belgium, I would refer MPs to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, those who are interested in seeing little how this matter was arranged before 1941, in the city of Belgrade, so that we do not go to France, it is far away. So, in the city of Belgrade, to inform you, conditions were determined how much employers should be covered by a collective contract – 51% and how many employees they have with them, so, if met, the Belgrade city's town's governor could decide on the extended effect of a collective contract on Belgrade's territory. That's all he does, yet something here to say that has something to do with some reality and life. Once again, I would like to appeal to MPs not to do harm to Serbia and the citizens, when it comes to direct application. You will vote on how you will vote, and it is my duty to warn you that you will directly hit citizens and workers in Serbia. The next thing you know, there are a few things I think are still important here. In the comments that were moving here, it wasn't just the law, it's very often said here, MPs are not talking about an amendment to a member of the law, they're talking from Kuline Ban to the day here. So, in this regard, the "Bor" was mentioned, and one of the MPs mentioned that some of the money was promised, so it was not respected. So, as for "The Bora" and what was agreed and discussed: as far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, money has been provided. What they need to do is deal with Jugopetrol, which is to run the Board of Bora with Jugopetrol. That money is secure, as far as it's concerned. Of course, I don't want to go back to the story so I don't want to go back to why "Bor" is the way it is, in this state where it is and why it's such a "Maydanpek" and not to talk about it. We've talked more than once. I'm sure of the Bora when I was, several times, citizens of Bora, no matter what, they know why Bora is in a state where she is, but I won't talk about it. There's one thing I think is important. It's connected to this labour law and the problems we're living with. In a previous debate, one of the MPs mentioned that, in some context, the minister -- due to some of my statements about Serbian citizens, would be happy to retire, etc., to insult Serbian citizens. I'd just like to say two or three things. So I think the citizens of Serbia insult, humiliate and underestimate the one who supports them in error, the one who actually cheats on them. I think the citizens of Serbia are underestimating, and the best proof of it is that this remark could be directed to me, and it could also be directed to another man. Now I'm going to mention him, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, and that they know what this is all about. I'll mention Mr. Archibald Rice, the Swiss, and you MPs got his books. He was a friend of the Serbian people in the First World War, and his heart was buried in Kajmachalan. This great friend of the Serbian people in that text that you could read, and then everyone would be less engaged in demagogue, and much more in the interests of that people, he wrote that, "The great problem of the Serbian people is that it is not working enough, which is not working enough." That's what our friend said. So it's not friendship when you tell someone you're very pretty, you're very smart, you tell the enemy. Archibald Rice, who was a great friend of this people, said to the face what needs to be said and so do I. So, in Serbia, there must be much more work to be done, to be much more productive in order to live better in Serbia. Another thing Mr. Rice said while watching what happens here after World War I, he said – a big problem, my people Serbian, is foreigners. Then a nice man wrote what it was really about. Very often when I look here and listen to the debate and when I'm not here, what he wrote in 1928, it's absolutely 2004. A party that completely ignores the general interest of Serbian citizens and all comes down to how my party will profit, I don't care about the general interest. I think it is very important that the citizens of Serbia know that it is not said by the enemy of the Serbian people, that this people must work much more and that this people must respect the common interest much more and that it must be largely neglected that we all feel better. In this respect, this law on working in general is an act, and I repeat this once again, which is the result of a balanced balance between interests, rights, obligations of employers and interests, rights and obligations of workers. What was the goal of this government is to improve the position of workers, and simply because they are weak, thank God, there is a law to protect the weaker, but at the same time not to endanger investment in the Serbian economy, because if we had done something like that, and some of the amendments you mentioned would have produced it. Then we're actually destroying and finishing you up. I would therefore once again urge MPs to take this into account, independently of political commitment, and to reduce the experience of partying and to have little more general responsibility for Serbia's general state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12309	Thank you. The MPs have a sense of responsibility, and since it is not in this exhibition, in addition to the occasional indignities, I have followed closely, neither the injuries of the Rules of Procedure nor the insult of any group. Mr Krasic, as an authorised representative of the SRS parliamentary group, reported for replication due to misreading in commenting on some amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12310	This was all about amendments to the SRS, and New Serbia and the SPS, which also had similar amendments, came as collateral damage. So, when you consider this bill, keep this in mind, and I didn't think it would take any godlike replica after this extremely modest opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He doesn't deserve a comment no matter what they say here, the harmful action of our amendments. I would just draw attention to a thought process that we had the opportunity to witness here and notice that there is a hole in that expert opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It says, the contract obliges those who have concluded the contract and those who are members or members of and one of the Contracting Parties. It is a direct call to employers not to go to any association, because then no collective agreement will apply to them and it is a direct call that no employee goes to any union, because it will not be bound by a collective contract. It is not a matter of whether a contract can change into the realisation of an individual – a minister rather than a court. When the contract is changed, the contract is terminated, etc., it appears as a competent authority of the court. No, this is the minister. That's a top-notch opinion. It is probably in line with that law of the assembly, that is, the town of Varoshi, the 1941 Belgrade. Lucky for us that this is still a little limited duration of discussion, so we haven't heard what it was like at the time of Mehmed Pasha Sokolović, it was probably a contractual obligation, something was achieved and something was concluded. Please, this is where you twist what's the alphabet. It's the MPs who submit the amendments, it's the MPs who are calling for the Constitution, the MPs who are calling for the International Labour Organisation conventions, they're all guilty, but there's no one to blame. There's not one who shouldn't be caught with the problem, but one cheap demagogy, a demagogue that should fool those who may be following the others in this room here. If this is a position and a modest expert opinion of the government, then you who form that government should consider whether this is your opinion. If this is your opinion and your position you have a majority and you will vote. If that's not your opinion and your attitude, say it now, because tomorrow might be too late. You who have fallen from power before, no wonder who was with you in the coalition. You had to fall for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12311	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm taking a break from one hour to 14:30, so we're going to continue the search of family law. (The session continues at 3:30 p.m. ) Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue to work towards the agenda. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE FAMILY LAW (principles) Please determine the quorum at the beginning. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic system found that 94 MPs, of 145, were present on official record. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Leila Ruždić-Trifunović, Anita Beretić, together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, Momir Marković, Natasa Jovanovic, Milovan Radovanović, Petar Jojić, Bozidar Koprivica, Vjerica Radeta, Branislav Blažić, Sreto Perić, Zlatan Jovanovic, Paja Momčev, Zoran Krasić, Milet Posurica, Miroslav Nedeljković, Nemanja Šarović, Dragoljub Stanović, Goran Cvetanovic, Vojislav Milajić, Miljko Četrović, Milan Stević, together Bojan Kekić, Milan Janković and Zvonimir Štović, together Branče Stojanović and Živodarka Dacinić, together Bojan Krajnić, Milić and Miliš Petrović. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Gender Equality. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. National MPs Branca Stojanovic and Zivodarka Dacin, written on February 1, 2005, withdrew the amendment they submitted together to Article 2. It's a bill of law. Also written on February 3, 2005, amendments were withdrawn by the MPs: Brance Stojanovic and Toma Busetic on Article 66, Bojan Kekić and Hranislav Peric on Article 68, Brance Stojanović and Zoran Angelkovic on the amendment to propose the addition of a new member of 84 and Brance Stojanović and Rajko Baralić on Article 139. It's a bill of law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 136(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. I would like to inform you that representatives for this agenda item are the following: for the SRS parliamentary group Miroslav Nedeljkovic, for the DSS parliamentary group Svetlana Stojanovic, for the parliamentary group DS - Boris Tadic Anita Beretic, for the SPO-NS parliamentary group Nikola Jovanovic and for the SPS parliamentary group Zivodarka Dacin. Does the representative of Proposer Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, want a word? Here you go, Mr. Lalovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12313	First, I would like to express my satisfaction that, finally, after a quarter of a century of law that is now in force, we have the opportunity to consider in the Serbian Parliament today the Bill of Family Law, which, according to my information, has been being prepared backwards for years, because there was a social and real need for our legislation in that area to be in line with all those changes that took place in those 20 and change years. For these or those reasons, however, it has remained, so after the quarter of the century, Serbia, I am sure, will get a new family law, which is a completely modern law, with a modern approach. A few important things I'd like to say. In this legal text are the provisions, firstly, that bring our legislation into line in this area with ratified international contracts. Some of those contracts we signed, some of them we didn't; essentially, there's been a kind of harmonisation and alignment with everything that's changed in the world in this area in the last quarter of the century. Another important thing is that, in accordance with international contracts, certain new legal institutes have been created. The third question - reformed to some extent some of the existing family law institutes and changes in legal systems, style and terminology. When it comes to harmonising with the provisions of ratified international contracts, I would point out, just for example, what happened in this matter in the meantime, and where we didn't comply with it. Here are just a few very important international agreements or conventions. These are: United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, The Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in Interstate Adoption, European Convention on the exercise of Children's Rights, European Convention on the adoption, European Convention on the Legal Status of Children born outside of Marriage, etc. There are many such conventions and international agreements, with which we have not harmonised our legislation during this period. I will now meet the MPs, in several segments, which are the new legal institutes contained in this family law, which so far did not contain our family legislation. First, I'm going to point out the part about the child's rights. It's the right thing for a child to live with his parents. That right can only be restricted by a court ruling when it is in the best interests of the child. We will have in this law this new legal standard – in the best interests of the child, which will often be repeated. In fact, it's the introduction of one of these new legal standards. Second, when it comes to the rights of the child, the child has the right to maintain personal relations not only with a parent he does not live with but also with other relatives with whom he is associated with a special closeness. The motivation of such a solution is clear. It's quite possible that the child has a special relationship with Grandpa, Grandma, uncle, uncle, etc. Now we define it right here and we build it up when it comes to a child. Then, it is very important to define the right of the child to express his opinion freely. In general, in this entire segment of this law, when it comes to the rights of a child, the idea is - far greater respect for the personality of a child. It's the central idea of this law in this part. This view of the child's right to free expression of opinion is expressed by means of a solution and by defining the right of the child that only or through an intermediary can address the court or the authority of the administration and ask for help in the exercise of one of its rights. It's a brand-new approach. Then, it is the court's obligation to pay particular attention to the child's opinion, whenever it is able to form and present its opinion. Then, the right of a child who has 15 years of life to decide which parent he will live with, how and how he will maintain contact with a parent he does not live with, therefore, the child’s right to define his position in this regard. Then, the right of a child who turned 15 and who is able to reason that he can give consent to a medical procedure; the right of a child to decide which school he will attend. If a child is able to form an opinion, he has the right to express his opinion freely. In addition to this part or chapter where the rights of the child are spoken of, and you see from what I've listed as a completely new approach when it comes to the child and when it comes to his rights, what is also new in this law, and what I would also like to point out, is, firstly, a joint exercise of parental rights. So, starting essentially from the best interests of the child (I said that we are now introducing this standard into our legal system), we are for the first time introducing a provision in our legislation that parents can continue to exercise parental law together and when they stop living together, provided that they conclude a written agreement on joint enforcement of that right and if the court assesses that such agreement is, again, in the best interests of the child. He's made it perfectly clear that the legion of this new solution was at war. Always, and above all, take care of the interests of the child and certainly, it is better for the child that, if possible, parents exercise parental rights together, even when they split up, than that they cannot do so. What's completely new in our family's legislation and which can cause certain reactions and controversy, but I think it's about time and we should have brought it in a long time ago, it's a matter of protection against domestic violence. So this law now makes it that protecting against domestic violence is no longer a private or personal matter of an individual, no longer a family matter. This is becoming a social matter. This becomes a matter of society and all of us. Starting from such an approach in this part, when we talk about protecting against domestic violence, it is, of course, difficult to determine or define the real situation of domestic violence in Serbia, but they are certainly large, unfortunately. We only see, according to some news headlines, the tip of the iceberg, when something terrible happens, and beneath the tip of the iceberg is a huge space where, in silence, every day, domestic violence is committed, towards whom – well, according to the weak, towards the woman, towards the children. It is something that is a major problem in Serbia and we actually want Serbia's society to finally deal with this phenomenon. We know the consequences of domestic violence and our idea and the intention is that the Serb society that pushed it constantly under the carpet finally removes that carpet and starts cleaning the room. What are the measures that this law provides for when it comes to protecting against domestic violence? We have five important measures. The first measure is the issuing of an eviction order from a family home or house, regardless of the right of property, or the lease of immovable property. This is one of the key things. In fact, we all know that in Serbia, when it comes to ownership of real estates, houses and apartments, 90%, if not more, are probably close to 100%, owners are actually men. So, what's essentially going on? That bully, that bully who commits violence, he owns a house or apartment, and the victims, so women and children, can't protect themselves. Either they get out of the house or the apartment and they run out of roof over their heads, or they're forced to suffer unlimitedly long-term violence, to severe bodily injuries, not to mention worse outcomes. So, this proposal of ours (I am sure that all MPs in this assembly will support it) we say that, regardless of the right of property over real estate, in that house or in that apartment, it will remain a victim of violence, and that whoever commits violence will not be kept here further. So it's one of the key things, given the real situation in Serbia when it comes to property over real estate. A second important measure is the issuing of a move-in order to a family apartment or a house, regardless of the right to property. So it's connected -- the right to throw a bully out and the right to move the victim inside. I think it's going to be a key thing in practice and we're going to start thinking about what they're doing. It's the only thing that can make them smart, not the appeals, that we're often inclined to talk to. The following measures are: a ban on approaching a family member at a certain distance; a ban on accessing the area around the place of residence or the work of a family member and a ban on further harassing a family member. So, this is a set of five measures, regardless of the comments or throws of those present in the hall, which will put an end to the behaviour of hohstappler, thugs and bullys, who have multiplied to incredible proportions in Serbia. These measures we're talking about are being expressed for up to a year. What's very important, and not to remain well imagined and never realized, which in this country is a tradition for at least the last 60 years, is that we are predicting a special litigation process here, and that's one of the key things about protecting against domestic violence, which enables it to be realistic and accomplished. It's one new thing when we talk about what we're doing. In addition to protecting against domestic violence, a process of mediation or mediation is envisaged, which is in fact an alternative mechanism for resolving disputes in relation to court or constitutional proceedings. The idea is quite clear: if they can agree, it is better to agree, rather than to conduct endless judicial or administrative proceedings, but it is clear that it is only an alternative mechanism, thus not denying the right of one who cannot agree, to judge and sue or do what he thinks he should do. What's also a newspaper in this family law is predicting a marriage contract. You know very well that we have regulations that regulate the availability of property, the availability of property. This law regulates certain regulations. So, what exactly is being said here? It is said that marriage contracts can also regulate it differently from mandatory regulations and everything else. So we can make a deal at the beginning about how it's gonna end. As a matter of fact, this institute is designed to protect the weak, which is by the rule of wife or wife. Also, there are new solutions to the gift contract, the right to live, but I would draw attention to a newspaper that is of broader importance, which is emancipation or gaining full business ability before the age. It's part of when we talk about special regulation or giving to the importance of children's rights. In order to achieve business ability before age, which is emancipation, three conditions are foreseen: that a minor is 16 years old, which is a minimum, has become a parent and has reached the physical and mental maturity necessary for the self-preservation of his own personality. So that would be the Corps of the brand-new institutes, brand-new issues that we now regulate in family legislation. The second newsroom to be passed by this family law is those institutes that have suffered significant changes. So they exist even now in our family's legislation, but we now foresee significant changes in this law. They refer to several important institutes. First of all, it's adoption. The changes provided for in the Bill's proposal concern, first of all, the age of adopters. Certain changes have also been made when it comes to age differences between adoptors and adoptors. The paper also presents the possibility of adopting a child by out-of-marry partners, under the same conditions that apply to spouses. Then, centralisation of data on potential adoptors and potential adoptors through a unique personal adoption register run by the Ministry of Family Protection. So, by introducing this unique personal register, we will have, on the one hand, all those in Serbia who want to adopt a child, and on the other hand, all potential children who can be adopted. I believe that by establishing this unique register, we will make adoption much more effective than before, and of course, the best solution for a child if there are no parents to be adopted and to grow up in a family. So the whole idea of these changes in this area is to create optimal conditions to allow the adoption of as many of our children without parents or parental ageing as possible to grow up in the family. And what is also a newspaper, precisely because of what I said, is the introduction of a special programme for the preparation of future adoptors for adoption. So we raise the standards we require of those who want to adopt the child. It is also, to repeat that phrase, a legal standard that and how it will have consequences for what is in the child's best interest. Next thing you know, we're talking about a new out-of-marriage community treatment. First of all, I'm thinking about the circumstances of what the partner's intention is, is their intention to keep the community permanent, not how many years it's been going on. It's simple, it goes to quality, to essence, not quantity. The papers have also been carried out in the case of divorce agreements; in determining and challenging paternity and motherhood; in determining and disputing motherhood and paternity in the event of conception with biomedical assistance. So, all these institutes have made important changes. Although they have existed before, they are now modernized and important changes have been made. When it comes to support, I think it's a very important institute. In support, we have introduced the following important newspapers, and I am stressing them: firstly, the introduction of the legal standard of "obvious injustice" for the maintenance debtor, in all cases when reasons are obtained to deny the right to trust legal support. What's this about? You know, as a rule, one who has to pay for maintenance avoids paying for it in this way, one or who knows what way, always has both the paper and the evidence and all the living, only it's lying, it's just the problem. So by introducing a standard of obvious injustice for the debtor, we essentially create conditions in which the court (and at all a decision-making body), independent of such or such paperwork, assess the real situation and make a fair decision. It's a qualitative shift over the current situation. Also, what is important as a newspaper, it is an extension of the right to support the child's mother, then, limiting the right to support spouses after the end of marriage to a maximum of five years and a number of other rights that, together, in terms of maintenance, should remove one of the humiliating situations in Serbia. I say again, as a rule, it is a woman who is humiliated when someone in every way possible avoids answering her obligation, and when there are children, then all the burden falls on a woman with children, while a team of cheaters watch her escape her obligations. In the end, I'd say one more thing. In order for this law to be properly applied is necessary, and we will do so as soon as it is adopted, it moves in this procedure (in any case it will be adopted, although I know you are wrong, but it will be adopted), so that judges from regular courts can be tried in these disputes. They need special knowledge to do so, so after the adoption of the law, we are expected to have a period during which judges from regular courts will especially train us to conduct these proceedings, and that is a very important thing. All in all, it seems quite clear to me that this family law is a very quality text that regulates family relations in Serbia in a modern way. I expect that through the debate MPs will improve the text somewhat, provided that the amendments are wise, and that they will eventually adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12314	Do they want the word of the committees responsible, the Committee on Health and Family, Dr. Pai Momchilov? No, I don't. President of the Legislative Committee Milos Aligrudic? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary clubs want a word? Yeah. ) Authorised representative of the SRS Miroslav Nedeljkovic, followed by MP Zivodarka Dacin, followed by Anita Beretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12315	Dear People's MPs, here comes this long-awaited family law. Under the circumstances, we have the same minister who defended the Labour Act until today's afternoon debate, and I really didn't expect the minister to fall into the fire, but when discussing family law. During the defense of the Labour Act, we listened to difficult words, expressions – crocodiles and crocodile tears, demagogues, and here we heard about the bitangs, hohstapplers, frauds. I really think it is absolutely not appropriate to disqualify, not replication, but rather disqualify all those citizens of Serbia whose family law concerns all citizens. While the Labour Law concerned a large number of citizens, family law literally concerns all Serbian citizens. Prior to the release of the assembly procedure, the family law drew attention to the general public because the ministry, I suppose, made an effort to promote this law quite aggressively. A few months ago, there are almost no days without television or daily or periodic newspapers presenting some of the chapters of this law, mostly in the affirmative tone. Very often, this law is said to bring about major, revolutionary changes in family relations. It is even said that through this law we will enter into modern European civilized peoples. The most often said is that the current family law was passed back in 1980, life ran over him, time ran over him, etc. However, whoever compared this, read the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, which was adopted in 1980 and the Family Law proposal that we are considering today, will come to a frantic conclusion – that these are very similar laws; it is likely that more than 90% of the provisions are prescribed, not literally, and some exceeded terms are eliminated: socialist morality, self-government, self-government, self-government, self-government communities etc. These changes are purely termological, editorialal. As for fundamental changes, the only fundamental change is that family law now has a new chapter, which is a chapter -- protection against domestic violence, which both I and other SRS MPs will look back on later. So this law does not lead us, the Serbian people, into civilised Europe. The Serbian people are an old European people and we are always there. And the old Law on Marriage and Family Relations absolutely did not go beyond high European standards. We do not dispute the need to pass a new law. This need is the most dictated by our desire, the need for our legislation to be adapted to EU legislation as much as possible, but these changes are more cosmetic, termological, and more so is the need to explicitly state what was meant by the old law. All these conventions should not be mystified. Conventions aren't something that fell on us from the sky, so now we need to adopt it and get used to what they're predicting. The conventions are the result of a cultural civilizational development of peoples, states, societies, and the Serbian people have long been among civilized peoples. As for the concrete analysis of the law, I'm going to go about the order the minister went to; of course, now I'm going to try to shed some light on everything he's given us here. Real kids, they're like new legal institutes now, because in the old law, we weren't supposed to protect the rights of a child. This chapter - A real child, full of general, declarative formulations that absolutely mean nothing and do not bind us. He is a typical member of 65th who says: "The child's opinion must be given due attention in all matters concerning him and in all proceedings in which his rights are decided and in accordance with the age and maturity of the child." No one can object to that, such a provision existed before, and it is nothing new. As far as the new provisions are concerned, let's try to get all that light from another angle. He says it's a big change that a 15-year-old will just decide which parents to live with. In practice, it worked more or less that way. A child at the age of 15 can only decide how to maintain personal relations with a parent who does not live with his family. What can be controversial about it? It may be disputed that a child at the age of 15 can sovereignly decide that he will not keep in touch with any parent he does not live with. Is that okay? Should the right of the child be absolutely sovereign 100%, whether the parent with whom the child does not live is unable to achieve the right to have any personal relations with the child, if we know that the child is a very often instrument, a tool in the hands of the parents with whom the child lives, and very often the former mates continue the war with each other through the child as a tool. The parent with whom the child lives, entrusted, has this powerful instrument in the fight against another parent. So this right doesn't have to be such that the child, allegedly, decides with his own free will that he won't see his father or mother. It shouldn't be so explicit. As for maintaining personal relations with the family of the parents she does not live with, so far the law has not been regulated that the family of parents with whom the child no longer lives can, by law, exercise the right to communicate with the child, with his grandson primarily. Now the legislator has introduced that change, but if it hadn't been for our amendment, it would have remained a declarative provision. The government, or minister, has accepted the amendment, so the provision will indeed be guaranteed, not just declared. As for the sovereign right of a 15-year-old child to just choose the high school he's going to study, I don't think the law should get in the way of normal families. The law should intervene where family relations are disturbed. Why now instruct children of 15 that their parent, father, mother have no right to suggest and interfere with the choice of future professions. It's absolutely no place for the law to intervene. Anyway, the family, not just with us, but in the world, is in the disintegration phase. A parent has less and less authority, as with whom, I agree, but globally, it's one world trend. It is not by law to cement and give wind in the sails of such processes. There's still a child's rights at 15, let's just say he's just deciding on medical procedures, and that's very discreet, we'll discuss it later, probably in particular more. As for the joint exercise of parental rights, it is listed as a major change. It is good if divorced parents continue to live, get circumstances, under one roof, and then the court does not have to rule that the child is entrusted to one parent, if the parents are already living under one roof. There's a clean manipulation here, if parents don't live together anymore, the court won't make a decision to entrust the child to one parent. What's that, then? This means that the court's decision will neither specify the amount of cash compensation, the way in which personal relations are maintained, and this is, like this, a colorful lie. The mediation process, it's a double provision; members that regulate divorce and reconciliation and settlement are already contained in all of it, and here is a novelty, the sausage is now something new, some new guarantee. A marriage contract, a gift contract, it's a novelty, and it's a tribute to the time we live in. This will not apply to normal people, normal, average couples. This will refer to those marriages that we read about in the newspaper, which, as a rule, last for a short time, and which are concluded not for the sake of living together, but for some kind of media halabuca. Protecting against domestic violence – no one is normal against getting in the way of domestic violence. However, the SRS is already expressing a large reserve and fear... (President: Mr. Nedeljkovic, are you using... I'm continuing... Because the Institute of Protection against domestic violence will certainly be abused. We're not saying that it might be misused, there will certainly be attempts at abuse. One marriage mate can also have motives for staying in a home, an apartment owned by another marriage partner, and just deprived of that mate. Violence in the family can be deliberately provoked, can be staged. However, there is a fortunately planned litigation process, but he is very concerned that abuse will occur and perhaps some of the measures, especially the distance from the apartment, will only provoke violence. So, a marriage mate who has been given a measure of distance from his own home, if he is intimately experiencing this as an injustice, can only then be motivated to commit violence against the marriage mate who has done this injustice to him. I think the application of this institute will just open up problems, but, let's not be misunderstood, we're energetic about coping with domestic violence. As for legal institutes that have undergone changes, it is in the area of a contractual divorce. Here's finally some ministry representative to hear these remarks. As for the contractual divorce, you can see what it is -- according to the current law, the contractual divorce requires a divorce agreement, a child's trust agreement, the amount of monetary separation to support the child and the model of continued personal contact between parents with whom the child does not live. All of this remains under the new law, but in order for this divorce to be agreed, marriage partners must agree on the denominations of the common property before the divorce. You can defend an idea like this. Of course, it is much better for all the issues to be regulated, so that as people, there will be fewer consensual divorces, and many more marriages will be divorced in a divorce suit. Why? It is much harder for ex - spouses to agree on a share of assets, and it is now a dilemma whether it is better for them to agree in peace on parental rights over the child, so that after the dispute over the property or to immediately argue about the property and then cannot agree on the exercise of parental rights over the child. It is my opinion that it should remain an old provision that the contractual divorce does not include an agreement on the division of common assets. The Institute of Perception is a painful act of the old law and will remain a painful point even after this law. There are about three times more couples in Serbia who are interested in adoption than children without parental ageing who are in the adoption process, and homes for carefree children are full. Why is that? Among other things, due to legal provisions. The child who is for adoption is practically the "ownership" of the Social Labour Centre. The Director of the Centre for Social Labour has discretionary rights, the possibility of whether or not it will proceed to adoption and bring it to an end. The Social Labour Centre often won't let a child go through adoption procedures, although it can be chosen by extraordinary adoptors; I don't want to hurt the vast majority of honest ones, but there is a purchase of children who are for adoption. When we were in the government, we fought hard to make some legal changes, but because of the mixed jurisdiction between the federal state and the Republic, we didn't get to do it. We had an idea to centralize this process, to get as much of the jurisdiction out of the social work center as possible, and centrally do all that. The promoter did one thing that was only a first step or a prerequisite -- the introduction of a unique personal register, and it stopped there. You'll see later when we talk about the amendments, we've put one amendment here on Article 317. Unfortunately, it wasn't adopted. The fact that there's gonna be a central record can't help if someone at the Social Labour Center isn't motivated to use the central register and go to the adoption institute. Otherwise, these changes in the sense that now there's only full adoption, it's just fine, and that's what we've been up to. This law is good to the extent that it's no different from the old law. All newspapers are less or more controversial. Some are not controversial, some are, and for some, we claim that more will produce problems than things will improve. Otherwise, when it started to talk about going into the process of changing family law, we were all a little afraid that this government, all rushing to Europe, might now predict the possibility of a marriage between members of the same sex or homosexual marriages. Fortunately, that did not happen, and I know that many MPs prepared to welcome such suggestions with dignity. That former government was seriously dealing with the idea. If you remember, there was even a trial public debate on the streets of Belgrade, in Belgrade's squares. It was a public debate called the Gay Parade. That's where the arguments were crossed by the supporters and the opponents of that idea. Opponents of the idea were far more powerful, as they were in the normal Serb people. They had much stronger, sharper and firmer arguments, so the first round of this public debate ended as it ended and I hope that some other round will end the same way. The Serbian Radical Party submitted 33 amendments to the bill. Six amendments have been adopted and the extent to which these amendments have been passed is something improved, but most of the amendments have unfortunately not been adopted. Some very important amendments have not been adopted without even giving any explanation. Not that it's unsatisfactory, but quite no explanation, so depending on how the proposer refers to our amendments in the Assembly, we will define our final position on this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12316	The word has been issued by MP Zivodarka Dacin, an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12317	Dear fellow Members of the People, I must notice something. In this meeting of the Serbian Parliament, this is certainly the only draft law that has practically reached political consensus at the meeting of the Health and Family Committee, or rather, in principle no one voted against. Of course, this does not mean that all MPs will vote for the adoption of this law, but it simply speaks of the consciousness of all of us that we are safe and necessary one such law. Of course, all parliamentary parties have made amendments to this law and I must say, since I was a member of that committee and I was present, that all amendments really had one positive wish, which is to make this good law even better. We are aware of the fact that there is no ideal law, as there is nothing ideal in life, but so let us really make one move better and adopt one of these laws in this assembly. I have to say, this isn't the first writing of family law. The first writing of the family law of the newer date was in 1994, when the Socialists were in power, but the bill did not see the light of day and did not enter the congregation procedure for one single reason, since then marriage and family relations were in the jurisdiction of the federal state. Today, we have more reason to be obliged to adopt one of these laws. First of all, there is the Constitutional Charter, which, practically, obliges Member States to each one to have its own laws. Then there are a series of ratified conventions, of which I would especially single out the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which probably, as signatories, at least in a way, binds us. What I would say is, we all strive here, no matter what political option we belong to, is that we enter international legislation and that at least with one such law, if nothing else, by harmonising with international law, we can unearth the door of the European Union. This law certainly has a number of good and quality newspapers, which are why the SPS parliamentary group will vote for this law, but I would say there are also certain shortcomings. The law is very large, it has 360 and some members. Of course, if we really wanted to discuss this law in studio, it would be too little time to discuss it, given the parliamentary time each of our parliamentary groups has. So I'd single out just a few things that seem very important to me. First of all, there are children's rights, because of course the child, whether they have it or not, is the center not just of all of us, but the center of the world and the center of all normal people. It may be the impression that these rights of the child here are more increased declaratively, just because we don't see any basis, possibly, sanctions, unless they are consistently implemented as such, but I would say that what is really important is what is given to the child, some increased independence, after the age of 15. So far, we've had a case where social work centres and courts... Depending on who the child belongs to, the child stays with the parent, and now the child has the right to vote after 15 years to say which one of his parents wants to live with if there was a divorce even earlier. After 15 years of life, of course, a child has the right to just think and decide on his further education, means to enroll in high school. A child, even after 15 years of life, can decide on his own and, let's say, if he wants to be exposed to a medical procedure, and so far, absolutely could not think about it. But what's very important is that after 15 years of life, the child has the right to have complete insight, first, into the birth certificate and then into all the complete documentation that speaks of the origin of the child. There's always a question here to say or not to say. It is very important here, if it is children who have been adopted (and whether adopted or not), that they can carry out this check in their home books, of course, after the 15th year of their lives. What is very important, and it is new, is likely that everyone will underline it in their presentations, it is that there is legally possible parental ageing in children and after divorce of marriage, of course, by a contract signed in court and if the court defines that it is the best thing for a child. In one of our normal families, in normal conditions, is there anyone who can do better than a parent to raise a child? I'd say no, because raising every child requires the presence of both parents. If you had contacts, and it is certain that, with children from divorced marriages and with those parents whom the child didn't belong to, you know that one weekend during the month, which until now, the center for social work has defined that the child is seeing the other parent, with whom he doesn't live, can't be enough for normal psychophysical development of the child, but not for anything else. In any case, this is a healthier combination, because I am one of the first proponents of the attitude that is a better healthy divorce, because in a healthy divorce, with normal parents dedicated to their children, children will certainly have normal psychophysical development, rather than, say, stay in a sick marriage, which brings back everything that is back to this law. I'd like to point out one more thing here. It concerns more emancipation, because here we are no longer talking about children who are 15 years old, but we are talking about persons who after 16 years of life, if they are psychophysically healthy and have become parents, with the permission of the court can be entitled to self-employed employment. In this way, there is someone who will be able to provide the material existence of the family. That's good. Now let me say something that we haven't said enough yet. What is very important in this law is a regulation that speaks about preventing or at least reducing domestic violence. Unfortunately, domestic violence is very present. No matter how much we're willing to talk about it in public, however, there are some statistics that say that mostly every fourth woman suffers domestic violence. Of course it's understood that it doesn't have to, as a rule, always be a woman. They can be children. Be assured that often domestic violence suffers and is old. In fact, there's a question of what kind of social mile we live in and what family means to us at all, that basic cell of society. Unfortunately, there are more and more broken families, and there is an increasing reduction in marriage. I'll give you an exact example. I come from the city of Kikind, where in 2003 there were more ruins than marriages made. It is a city in which, practically, the institution of the family, as well as in all other environments in our country, loses in that traditional sense, which we believe and how we were raised, what it is to be a family. On the one hand, if we were to say that the family doesn't have that weight because the economic situation in which our country is bad, our standard of life is bad, mostly in families one member works or none works, and that all of these are situations where the family doesn't have its own existence, I'd say maybe that's not the case. Because the exact data suggests that even in families where the higher standard of living is a smaller number of children, where families with lower material status are born many more children and, practically, they are the ones that extend our species. Or, not just to observe our country, which really lives under difficult material circumstances. If we look at the countries of Western Europe, and if you want America, where there's a very high standard of living, and there's a reduction in the number of families where children are born. We had a criminal code on the agenda in the last term. For the first time there, thanks to our colleague Leili Ruzdic, an amendment adopted by the Assembly in the past term, it was introduced that there was a crime - domestic violence. This crime is punishable by a prison of up to three years; I would say, very drastically, not because I would want anyone who misdemeanors any person, not a member of my family, to protect, but simply, a fundamental question is raised -- which the mother will condemn to three years in prison of her child's father. I'd say a very difficult decision, unless it's really some kind of excessive violence. In these unhappy situations and environments, various NGOs have developed in our country to shelter victims of domestic violence, regardless of whether they are women or children. Or, we have various SOS phones that could be reported by victims of this violence, but the question is whether it is realistic to expect help from such organizations. The question arises who is behind such organizations and how professional and competent these people are. I don't want to doubt anyone's good will to protect everyone at risk, but I think that all these regulations are much more favourable with this family law than to resort to this other necessary need that has gone wrong in these years of transition everywhere, even in our country. We've heard, not to say again, in which all ways can protect the victim in the family, for example. The bully cannot approach either the place of work or the place where he lives; thus, regardless of who the victim is, he will be protected maximumly, because in one safer way there is protection of both the mental and physical integrity of every endangered person. I think it's something that's good in this law. There's another newspaper in this law, and that's a marriage contract, although I'd rather say it's an association to a prenup. So far, we have been able to see it mostly in movies from the West and reading about making marriages of public and very rich celebrities that these premarital contracts are made exclusively for material reasons, because anyone who has brought great wealth into the family, and if there is a divergence, does not want to remain damaged. I would say that we have a very small number of families who would make a prenup, but it seems to me that he is and how important it is because if a divorce occurs, there is some possibility that the more vulnerable side of a divorced marriage can be protected. Not to mention, there are still a number of members who are very well regulated and some other marital relations. As far as adoption is concerned, I think it's good, no matter what we may have to do about it, first of all, that there will be a single register in the ministry, which will be a record of all potential adoptors and all potential adoptors; at any moment, it will be able to track the child that was adopted, and there will be best recognition there with each other. There is no longer a limit, a limit for adoption; the current law has provided for up to five years, and now there is a limit to the lower limit, that no child can be adopted under three months, but that is why the upper limit has been increased, so the child can be adopted until the age of 18. There's even a clause that even after 18 years, if it's about a person who needs adoption, and for that psychophysical, for medical reasons, he can't live on his own. What is very good, to eliminate some social anomalies that are present in modern society, including with us, and to establish a correct relationship between parents and children, is that a reasonable line has been made between adoptors and adoptors. The difference between adoptors and adoptors cannot be less than 18 years old, but it also cannot be more than 45 years old. I would say that all these are the arguments that will make the SPS parliamentary group vote to adopt this kind of family law and, of course, by applying it to work, to see that, if possible, it is more often to be corrected in this House. These are the reasons for this, but there are also reasons against it. First of all, it is in the law, why this family law cannot be applied immediately after adoption. We have also heard from the minister himself that there is a need for some education of judges, and we are all familiar with that and there has been a very broad debate on this law, why parallelally, if we know that it is a quality law and that it will come to support in this Parliament, there has not been any education of all these judges who, by adopting this law, will have to do new jobs. There is a question of competence of equipment, and staff and technical, social work centres, which will be necessary as well. It takes financial support from the government to make everything we've talked about, unique registers and everything else, really come alive at other levels. Finally, if all this is the case, and it is, I am asking one open question to all of us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia -- what will our family law do if we no longer have a family and we no longer have children? Is this family law, and I'm sure it is, the first and primary motive for us all to think very seriously about what it is to make all of us Serbs, as a people, not extinct. We're getting older. We have to do something to improve the birth rate. I'll just give you some information. If we're taking some really relevant data, that's why I'm going to quote them from the last list and from 1991, no matter what happens between us (wars, large numbers of refugees, displaced persons, etc.).On the last list, population numbers are much smaller. One-third of marriages are childless. Think about it, we're talking about family, the relationship between parents and children, all of it, affirmatively, and we're one-third childless marriage! Then, a couple comes to 0.9 children. A long time ago, the white plague was characteristic of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, where I came from. Today, the white plague has ruled Serbia, and we all must really do something about it. If Serbia's entire population is 0.9 children per family, it is 0.6 in Vojvodina, and if we look at another population, let's say in Albanians 6.9 children per family. What are we experiencing? So far, we've had the opportunity to watch a variety of reports and see how the villages stay with one kid who attends school, so the teacher holds regular classes, or two and three, and we've all been surprised, we were all disgusted, but today it happens to us in cities as well. There's only one class less in kickinda every year. Well, because we don't have kids, we're going to have a surplus of educational staff, which we've never had before, because we've always said we're broke in that. I would quote on Alojz Fischer von Eger -- from the beginning of the 20th century to today all Balkan nations have increased, Turks by 400%, Romanians by 45%, Bulgarians by 38%, Albanians 700%, Greeks 35%, only the number of Serbs decreased by 10%. So, do we really not think this is the last time we have to worry about restoring the population in Serbia? I believe we're about to have a new meeting and something like that that we really need to talk about. Otherwise, once again for the end, the SPS parliamentary group will vote to adopt such a proposal for family law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12318	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Anita Beretic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12319	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after several opening statements, are clearly indisputable (and at the very least there will be no topic) the need to pass a new law that will regulate the subject of family and family relations. Already, the fact that the current law dates back to 1980 shows that social reality has changed significantly, that we do not remember all the events now, that much has happened to us, and of all the international documents already mentioned, it is sufficient to remind only of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which also formally imposes on us the obligation to comply with all relevant domestic regulations with these and other international documents. After the first reading of the text of this law I gained an impression, underlining - the impression, because I like to read, and as a common reader in the first encounter with the law, I also experience this legal text. So my first impression was language scurvy, and then the question was whether it was good or bad. The lawyers will, of course, say that the language of law is such, and that is not at all questionable. Legal style is a specific, special style, which seeks precision in defining situations, actions, participants, causes, consequences etc., as well as the factors themselves in certain actions. I understand that it's always hard to define and regulate human relations when it comes to emotion, and it's basically all the relationships that are the subject of this law, and I believe that it's even harder, so somehow I find it laity and space for certain freedoms to establish all the countless possible life situations that we can practically find ourselves in, and I can become the subject of this law. What is already pointed out is that, in our opinion, some of the new legal institutes introduced by this law are very important. This is where I put the members from 59th to 66th in terms of the rights of the child. It is a qualitative shift, because the practical right of the child is defined and guaranteed by law, i.e. simply moving the angle of seeing the social community towards that being. I honestly believe that it is fully open to the intention of the child not only being the object of declarative social care for himself, but to experience and engage practically in social processes as an active entity. That's absolutely right. So, a child, by some of these members, of course, has the right to know who his parents are, has the right to live with his parents, the right to maintain personal contact with a parent he does not live with, has the right to provide the best possible living and health conditions for his development, the right to education in accordance with his abilities, desires and tendencies. It is particularly important to me, and I would like to highlight it as a matter of importance, a 65th member who practically develops and determines the right of a child to form and freely express his opinion, and even these articles provide for certain mechanisms to ensure it. The next good thing is a joint exercise of parental rights. It is good that in our legislation there is a provision under which parents can continue to exercise this right together, and if they stop living together, either practically in the marriage community, or if they divorce, provided that they make up a quality agreement, whose quality the court will assess. The theme that will obviously be very much represented in our discussion in the coming days is surely domestic violence. The legal institute in this law is also very important. Violence in the family, unfortunately, is our reality, but often in the range of sometimes hypocritical or false expansion of the value of family relationships, up to criticism, but still often only at the theoretical level, this social problem, which is not a personal problem, is not a family problem, it is a social problem, it remains too often invisible, despite numerous statistics on domestic abuse, which is not at all pink. Articles 197 to 200 define domestic violence and protection measures. With this important and close relationship, members 81, 82, and 83 should also be observed, which determine the conditions for disfellowshipping parental rights. Article 81 defines the causes of full parental right deprivation, and Article 82 partially deprives parenting rights. We need to think about it, and we'll probably get through the debate of that, whether a parental right can be returned to a parent who was completely deprived of parental rights, who committed a crime, because we just heard a whole series of acts that he had already defined and the Criminal Law, so he did it, for example. the criminal act referred to in Article 81(2). The reminders are done, this article 81 in paragraph 2 defines what is the abuse of rights from parenting rights, followed by point 1: "if a child is physically, sexually or emotionally abused", point 2: "if a child is using it to force him to overwork or to work that threatens morals, health" etc. This law allows for the return of parental rights when the causes resulting from the deprivement, in part or in full, have arisen. I believe that there are such acts after which executions should be considered not to return to parental law, since never, for example, ever. can't stop the cause if the child is sexually abused. It's a trauma for life. What is essential to us, but also a political issue in this law, is Article 5. In the draft law, Article 5 reads: "Everyone has the right to freely decide on birth." Let's start again a little bit of language. The word "everyone" is a general noun. It is used when it refers not to individual beings, but to a multitude, often very diverse, beings. Once again, the lawyers will say it's a common legal termology and I know it is, but at the same time I think that every legal provision and every law in general is as good as it paints and defines or predicts a life situation. I have to ask, is there any more life-threatening situation than birth itself? In the title of this article stands - birth, mother and child. And there's only one member with those two attitudes. So, the first point – that everyone has the right to freely decide on birth and the second point: "Mother and child enjoy special protection of the state". In a magical way, a very specific "mother" directory from the first position in the second position appears. We believe that the use of this deputy avoids the legal definition of a natural human right for a woman to freely decide whether, when, and at what time, she will have children. So we suggest that this attitude fully reflects this natural human right and that it is - a woman freely decides on birth. There is no need to experience aggression, there is no aggression in this article, if this is how we reform it, nor is the partner in making a decision excluded. On the contrary, We shall present to you a series of evidences and arguments. (President: Excuse me, are you using...) No, here I go. Since I've quoted the text of the law, please don't count on me for three minutes. (President: Done, here you go. ) I think it is important to make an important civilizational step and at least to admit that women are rarely free to make a birth decision, that this decision is often limited to social, cultural, economic, traditional and other factors. They usually cannot decide what they want, but they decide in the way they are expected or, very often, how they have to decide. Control or reduction of that natural right of a woman is a dangerous kind of discrimination and it is important to define ourselves as a society according to that subject. Women need this right not only to participate equally in society and social processes, but primarily in a fair way, which would allow them their own natural diversity. The Democratic Party can and wants to contribute to the development of the family relations and values of our society towards family and family relations, to participate in all processes that will improve the quality of life of our family. But we insist and want a part of this process to respect the individual, that is, the individual, and his or her opus of natural rights and acquired rights, because the basis of every free democratic society is, above all, a free individual.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12320	The word has a folk MP Svetlana Stojanovic, and let it prepare for the word Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic, the authorised representative of G17 Plus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12321	Honorable MPs, proposed by family law, are governed by family relations, family rights stemming from family relations, protecting family life, and primarily protecting a child, a child in a family and a child without a family. This law primarily protects the most physically weak members of the family – wife and child. It protects them from domestic violence, which means physical and sexual abuse, but also from emotional abuse, from inflicting mental pain. I would point out that mental pain is not protected by men either. This is best known by divorced men, whose wives took their children to other cities or other countries. The law prohibits the cause of fear in a child, the restriction of freedom of a child, the insult of a child. It is given the right to decide the things that directly concern him – where he will live, who he will live with, who he will see, which school he will attend. The weakest member of the family, the child, the law protects the parents. It provides for parental custody, when a parent abuses his rights and neglects his duties. In such cases, the custody authority may introduce preventive or corrective supervision. The court can also completely deprive parents of parental rights. The relationship between a child and a parent is defined as a relationship based on love, trust and mutual respect. Love, trust, and mutual respect cannot be prescribed by law, but the law can protect a child who, instead of love, trust, and respect, is exposed to violence, abuse, physical or emotional injury. I care very much about this aspect of the law, because it protects against physical and sexual abuse and the Criminal Code, and from emotional abuse until now, it seems to me, the weaker family member was not adequately protected. The child, after this family law, has been protected from a painful divorce by a new legal institute, which is a joint exercise of parental law. So parents don't have to continue living together, but if they still love a common child, they can agree before the court that they are fully equal. The child is no longer in a position to choose between the mom and dad he loves equally. Protection against the consequences of disturbed family relations may be requested before the court. It is very important that the court is obliged to settle such charges by emergency procedure. A child in court can only be protected through an adult whom he trusts. He's protected by custody, but he's also protected by a public prosecutor. The court, under the proposed law, may, as we have already heard, issue an eviction order from the family apartment, regardless of who owns that apartment, an immigration order, when a child or woman, or any member of the family, is compromised. The court decides all of this in the best interests of the child. It can also ban the physical approach of a woman or child at risk, which we have only seen in American movies so far. We see here how delicate family law really is. On the one hand, the law is intruding into something that is the domain of man's privacy that must be sacred for every country, and on the other hand, it rightly obliges the state to protect those members of the family who feel threatened. So the threat in the family isn't anybody's private business anymore. The best interest of the child is defined through all members of the law, in accordance with the standards prescribed by international conventions. And in this case, as in all other cases, when we introduce international standards into our legal system, I would recommend caution - not to run ahead of the ore, not to prescribe something that is contrary to our culture. If this does not apply, the best family law can turn to its opposite. I'm also referring to the case of a family of our origin who lived in America and who, by Western standards, was taken from two children three and five years old, because they had bruises, and it wasn't discovered in time that the bruises were due to a rare blood disease. When it was discovered, the mother acquired the right to undergo transfusions every two months to keep her children alive. The proposed family law, in my sense, did not best define the child's age when the child acquired certain rights. For example, it seems to me that it's 15 years late to give a child the right to decide which parent he's going to live with, because by 16 he's given the right to marry, marry, and has a business ability. So, just a year, he's been sharing the right to choose his parents and the right to just make a living. The adopted child, I think, is too early to give the right to gain insight into his biological background at 15 years of age, when his psyche is upset with puberty anyway. I think that's why it was supposed to wait for full maturity, adulthood. I am particularly concerned when the child's age has not been determined at all and when "collession guardian" or "temporary representative" of the child's interests leaves the right to determine the child's ability to form his own opinion based on the relevant data that must be provided to him. I think it would be better for the law to determine when a normal, healthy child is able to form an opinion – whether it is six, seven, nine years old. As far as adoption is concerned, the state is obliged to allow a child without parental ageing to grow up in the family. Such a child, a protection facility will help to be adopted, to have a foster or foster family. The law allows the adoption of a child who has no living parents, whose parents are not known or are unknown to their residence, a child whose parents are deprived of parental rights or of their business skills and children whose parents agree with their adoption. The missing category of an abandoned child, a child that biological parents don't care about, and they won't sign approval for adoption. In practice, these same parents, when a child grows up, earns some money, show up with claims of rights to apartment, maintenance, care, etc. The court would have to, in the shortest procedure, take away the parental right from the parents who left the child, and would not want to give him up for adoption. Otherwise, the state will not be able to fulfill its obligation to provide a child with a healthy family to grow up in. There is only complete adoption in the new law. The incomplete adoption that applied to a child over the age of five no longer exists. It is prescribed that the difference between adoptors and adoptors cannot be less than 18 or more than 45 years old, which is normal if a parent relationship is to be maintained. However, I am not convinced that it is good that a child can be adopted only after the third month of his life. I know it's a shorter period than in the previous law, when adoption was allowed only at six months, but that's when a child who doesn't have living parents whose parents don't know each other, or they don't know their place of residence, was sentenced to three months of living in a hospital or an orphanage. Even when living and well - known parents want to give consent to adopt, they do not have the right by law before the child ends two months of life and is given a 30 - day period to withdraw his consent. Again, the child is sentenced to live outside the family, which is contrary to the spirit of family law. As we know, the child has prenatal experience, and the first three months of life are of paramount importance to his development in a healthy personality. Who are these provisions of the law protecting? I'm guessing a biological mother, but if it's some kind of psychiatric problem of hers, if she's suffering from postpartum depression, she can protect herself by finding a psychiatrist whether she's healthy or sick, that she's sick of a disease that she'll go through, so she could think differently. If a mother decides on such a step for social reasons, it would still be better if it were solved by the finding and opinion of a social worker who would determine whether her problems were relievable and how. There's no doubt that a child is, as a rule, the best thing to do with biological parents... (President: Excuse me, Mrs. Stojanovic, do you want to use another 10 minutes? Until I'm done, a little bit more. As a rule, the child is best with biological parents. However, the purpose of this law is to protect a child when it is not best with biological parents or without parents. In the section - The marital status of adoptors, I find it unfair to discriminate against women or men, although they are, as a rule, women who do not live in a partner relationship. If the marriage and extramarital community are fully equaled, if the rights of the extramarital community are not obtained on the basis of the duration of the community, but on the basis of the intention of the community being permanent, why does the law prescribe that women (because in practice they are primarily women) who are not, and may already be, in a marriage or an extramarital community, only have the right to adopt a child on the basis of the discretionary right of the competent minister. Women who are not in a partner relationship, women themselves, have a biological family that would accept a adopted child, have blood relatives with whom they live, parents – grandparents of the adopted child, brothers and sisters – future uncles and aunts of the adopted child. Among the women themselves, we would have great mothers adopted. I hope that the minister in charge will often benefit from his discretionary right. On the other hand, I hope that the minister will not often use his discretionary right to allow our children to be adopted by foreign citizens and that protection institutions in very rare, truly exceptional cases will approve foreign citizens. I think we have enough of our families waiting to adopt the child. I find it very important to establish a "single personal register of adoption", however large and demanding a job it is. I hope that the ministry will quickly establish such a register, hence a centralised data bank on potential adoptors and adoptors, and that sublaws will define clear and fair criteria for the award of adoptors, because precisely because of the lack of previous law, the adoption of children was both the black market and the area of corruption. Finally, I think we should adopt an amendment proposing to amend the title "family law" in "family law". I don't think the title of the law is particularly significant. What matters is what the law says. Writing the law is often a missed opportunity to cultivate our language. The DSS will vote for family law or family law if the proposed amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12322	The word has the deputy president of the G17 parliamentary group plus MP Snezana Stojanovic-Plasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12323	Dear ladies and gentlemen, in this House we have passed a truly record number of laws in an attempt to stabilise the institutions of our country, to stabilise our country's legal and economic system. The G17 plus parliamentary group voted in favour of these laws with a deep belief that each of them is equally important because it represents an important link in a solid chain. Each of them represents a step that makes our country stable and one step that leads us to Europe. Indeed, it is very difficult to say for some law that it is more or less important, but I will allow myself the freedom to, in part and with a personal aspect, say that I consider this law that we are discussing today to be one of the most important laws. Why? First of all, for personal reasons, because if this were the only reason I had adopted the government that I support, during my political activity, I would think my political mission was successful, because I could go back to my basic job, and that's also child protection. Another reason is that each of us has a family and that is important for each of us to have this area in detail and well - arranged. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also agree with those who say that the law does not regulate family relations, because they are outside the law, because they are primarily in the emotional sphere. I will remind you of the words of the great writer who said – all happy families look alike, but unfortunately all are unhappy in their own way. Of course, happy families and our previous law may not have been important and may never have mattered to know any of the letters of this law. To the unhappy families, to those who are unhappy each in their own way and who face every day the work of that accident, at one point in their life can become important every letter and every point of this law. It is therefore very important to be precise and clearly defined. So I would say that it is very important that this law, unlike the previous one, clearly defines some areas, some things and some concepts that were not defined by the previous law. My colleagues and colleagues from the G17 Plus Group will speak during this debate on the various aspects of this law, which is why G17 Plus this law supports, but I will say those that I consider most important and will try to really be in a shorter period of time. Of course, I'm not going to say anything special if I say that this part that is related to the children's rights is one of the most important parts of this law, not just because it defines some child's rights, but because this is the first law in our legislation that clearly introduces this definition, which clearly speaks about children's rights. Why children's rights? Is that so we can spoil our children? Do children’s rights exist in order for parents ’ educational actions to be marginalized? Is that to reduce the authority of parents and families? No, exactly the opposite. That's because we all know that the child is the father of a man, that's to show that children really matter to us, not only because we are emotionally bound to them, but also because we are aware that the healthy development of a society depends really on the healthy development of children. Why is there even a signing of the Convention on Children's Rights? Not out of luxury and because children need to exercise some rights that may not be so important, but because around the world and today in all the countries of the world children's rights are flagrantly violated, from children being abused in areas of labour, illegal work, in the field of pornographic industry, in the area of child abuse, but also because they are actually used in wars and abused in various other ways. Of course, our country is a signator of this convention and the Convention should be automatically applied, but unfortunately I have to tell you that I know from my long-standing practice that this is not the case. I would also like to say that I consider the particularly important part of this law to be the part that speaks about the professional training of judges dealing with the protection of children's rights and who are judging in these processes, because I really had the opportunity to participate in a study which unfortunately showed that a large number of judges in Serbia were not sufficiently informed about the Convention on Child Rights, regardless of what she said should be automatically applied. That is why this area is particularly important, but I also agree with colleagues who have said that one particularly important part of this law and one that speaks of the abuse of parental rights and which precisely defines what this abuse of parental rights is. I agree with those who will say that normal people don't do such things in normal families, that normal parents have a natural urge to care for their children, care for them and protect them in every way possible, but I will tell you, I believe not the great truth, that unfortunately not in all families and that all people don't have that attitude. Of course, I can support this with a number of data from practice, life, scientific literature. I'll tell you that, unfortunately, in situations where parents are unable or unable to protect their children of the state and society, they are responsible for taking that protection upon themselves. I have to say, that's what's been going on in our society so far. I really know families who can't take care of their children. I know mothers who are severe psychiatric patients, who are single mothers, whose children are left to their speed, which of course is not competent enough. I also know the cases of families in which children died because of carelessness or suffered serious physical harm due to parental care or physical abuse. We often like to keep our mouths shut before that truth or otherwise, sensationalistically, we talk about it, but of course the data is inexorable. I'll tell you that in the world 57,000 children die annually from physical abuse in the family; 93% of these severe physical abuses occur, unfortunately, in the family. What about sexual abuse? The exact same situation: out of four reported cases, three are girls, of five abusers, four are men. Of all reported cases in 39.12% abuser is a father, and in 53.22% of father figures, means someone who replaces father, and all in all 98.25% of those who sexually abuse children are famous, famous male figures. So for girls in Serbia, it's not the most dangerous uncles, it's family. The same is true of physical abuse. In Serbia, only 52 cases of physical abuse were reported in 2002, in order to report 199 cases in 2003. This is not because there has been an increase in physical child abuse, but because there has been an increase in sensitivity, an increased number of reports of these cases. It is therefore very important that all citizens in Serbia recognize the physical abuse of children, that child abuse is reported and spoken of in our society. Here, unfortunately, I have an article that talks about it, but I'm not going to quote it in any part of it now, because I realize that it might be too much at this point, but I want to tell you that it's important that this law clearly defines that physical, sexual and emotional abuse of children, child exploitation, encouraging children to commit crimes, getting used to child abuse, leaving a child is a harsh violation of parental rights, and that in such cases the state has to react. It's an obligation for all of us. I want to remind you that there have been tragic cases in Belgrade alone in the past few months, all of which we have witnessed together. I want to tell you that here I am today in an article quite accidentally, which just says that it's a everyday phenomenon, came across information about family violence. Namely, it says here that when the police patrol came into the house, after there was a lot of noise and momentum, she found a beaten woman and two children, four and eight years old. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, because measures are being taken to protect families from domestic violence, in some cases there will be some abuse, but I absolutely believe that much more abuse is possible if we do not detect such cases in time. I want to tell you that our "batin is out of heaven" absolutely doesn't stand, because physical violence against children is not an accident, because it always repeats itself, because if one child beaten back into his family has a 60% chance of being beaten up again and being exposed to the most severe injuries and there's 10% chance of dying from these injuries. I'll tell you that I've been able, unfortunately, to see footage of the autopsy of these children who ended up with a fatal outcome and I can tell you quite reliably that the beating of children from hell has come out and that she is the worst part of us and our society. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this bill. For this reason, I call on you to propose and adopt a law on children, which will especially protect children, and I will also advocate, of course, that a committee be formed in this assembly that will take special care of children. I think it's an obligation for all of us, because when a child leaves our country with him, as the great writer says -- don't ask who the bell rings, it always rings for you, because none of us are alone, we're all part of the continent and part of the country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with these children goes the best part of us, but we are left with the greatest obligation and proportionate to our obligation in this country remains and the obligation to care for children. That's why G17 plus and I invite you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12324	Members of the Committee on Culture and Information, tonight at 1800 hours, on the fourth floor, a brief session, just to move tomorrow's session and discussion that was scheduled. So there's a need for presence. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, they are in conformity with Article 89(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, until the opening of a search for a written word application, with a number of MPs, submitted all MPs. I give my word to the People's Messenger, Dr. Zarko Obradovic, and let the People's Messenger Vladan Vukicevic be prepared, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12325	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, in a debate that has so far been heard about the Family Law proposal many times and by several speakers the word "family" has been heard. I think the discussion of the Family Law proposal could be complete, meaningful if we tried to give a single answer – what is, in fact, family. The family is the oldest and most universal social institution, in which women and men best meet their biological and social needs, and the social community provides its demographic and economic survival by giving birth and raising children within such a family. I purposely mention this topic and this concept and its content, because it is the essence of both this law and the state that we have in Serbia. I think the discussion of this bill requires that we hear the consequences of family decommissioning in modern culture in European countries and America. If the birth and raising of children is the basic criterion of family validity, then, according to the latest data from the United Nations Population Department, it can be concluded that 60 of the world's most developed countries have an insufficient birth rate. In a document I obtained for this session, a document by the American Association of Demographs, held in Boston in 2004, in April, where these data were released, it is clear that what I just said - that 60 of the world's most developed countries has an insufficient rate. In addition, this document finds that many governments in which the fertility of the population or childbearing rate is below the threshold of the renewal of generations are increasingly concerned about the economic, social, cultural and geopolitical consequences of the reduction and ageing of the population. A growing number of countries view their low childbearing rates and the decline of the population and its aging as a serious crisis that threatens the nation's fundamental foundations and survival. Economic development, defence, pensions and health funds for adults, for example, are areas affected by these facts. In an attempt to raise the childbearing rate, governments are trying to find appropriate programmes to encourage couples, especially women, to raise the birth rate. These are some of the conclusions of this esteemed gathering. I think talking about this bill requires and hearing about the state of the family in Serbia today, what a demographic situation it is. In addition, I obtained a magazine, the "Demographic Review" of the Institute of Social Sciences in Belgrade, in which fragrant data are found for Serbia. I quote: "In the beginning of the 21st century, the population of Serbia belongs to the group of the oldest populations of Europe and the world. Serbia, according to the media age of the population, is among the ten oldest countries in the world." When this finding develops into concrete assessments, of course, supported and factual data, we come to the following: that the growing number of older people in Serbia is amongst the elderly; that there are fewer young people among young people; that there are a growing number of married couples in Serbia; that there are an increasing number of childless couples; that the number of couples who have two or more children decreases, and another finding – that the number of communities without one parent is growing, as a rule without a father. What does this bill offer? I have to say that it contains a lot of institutes, a lot of solutions that represent in this area something called international standards. There are also some things that, in my deep opinion and the opinion of the SPS MPs, represent only mere copying and, compared to what I just said, will not significantly improve Serbia's demographic image. In the light of the law, the Proposer cited several reasons why this law was passed. He quoted four main groups of reasons. Our view is that such an approach, i.e. the idea of family importance, does not reflect the complexity of the various social, historical, religious and cultural influences, which make comparison or attempt to rapidly and radically equalise family status in European countries and Serbia completely inappropriate. Attitudes on the progress of civilization, as explained in this law, with these standards or conditions required by market economy, as well as others mentioned, which justify such changes in family legislation and practice, are objectively not acceptable to us, especially if they take into account vital statistics relating to marriage, family and the birth of children. In fact, the traditional family, as the oldest and most universal social institution that best meets the biological and social needs of individuals of the opposite sex, and by giving birth and raising children provides the demographic and economic survival of the community, is seriously at risk in modern culture. The question is how many acts, like this, take care of these things and how objectively they can change this state. The call for the application of European legislation in this area, if relevant and comparable data in the European countries in Serbia, the rates of assembly and divorce, the percentage of children born outside of marriage, child birth rates and others, as well as the fact that Serbia is exposed to one of the most difficult forms of open depopulation (white plague), is contrary to national and state interests. It can therefore be concluded that the proposal for this law does not meet the basic social objective, which is the need to strengthen the family and relations between genders and generations, as preconditions for the biological and economic survival of our community. What do we suggest? I must say that the SPS will try to propose to the National Assembly in the spring session a resolution on the renewal of the population, which, in addition to other very clear and concrete measures, will also contain a proposal to call a referendum on population policy in Serbia. We think that a referendum statement is very important, because it is a fate issue that cannot be resolved in the present way. This approach is highlighted by one of the leading demographics of the modern world of Paul Demenji. At the document I offered Demenji, I quote: "The insight into the efforts of the governments of developed countries in the state of the depopulation shows that the possibility of raising the childbearing rate or the fertility of the population so far applied to the methods of financial and other social support of the family and the employed woman is unsuccessful, i.e. leaving no hope that they can achieve a simple renewal of the population. There is no hope, according to all the evidence, that unfavorable demographic flows can be spontaneously repaired, i.e. leading to the threshold for the restoration of generations. Developed societies, faced with the depopulation, are likely to reject the domain of economical calculation, so-called. prices of the child and move to the domain of the political economy, i.e. Instead of," he says, "redistributive mangullu, i.e. The transfer of funds to generations from older to younger and vice versa must be made to fundamental changes in the constitutions and laws that lay down the rules of social relations. "These are the words of a man who applies to one of the world's most famous and influential demographics. I must say, the truth is, this law contains a lot of institutes that are absolutely, in our opinion, applicable, which will solve a lot of problems in Serbia, but this basic one - the decline of the population in Serbia, or its ageing, will not. I think there's two more things to say. If this bill is in line with the basic international documents that regulate this area, I think it was also necessary to apply those solutions to a member of the law relating to birth, mother and child. In Article 5. The proposal for this law in paragraph 1 states that everyone has the right to freely decide on birth. I know this is a solution that has been adopted as well as in the current Constitution and that this is a solution that has been passed down from the previous constitution, but since we have a Constitutional Charter that clearly states that international documents have primate over domestic ones, I think there is or at least there is a basis to apply the solutions that exist in the documents relating to this issue. In the basic documents in this area, the UN General Declaration on Human Rights in 1948, the Third Population Conference - Bucharest 1976, Strategy for the Promotion of Women's Position - The Robots in 1985, the International Conference on Population - Mexico 1984, the Recommendations of 19 adopted declarations of population, and the most significant motive of documents - in the programme of action of the Fifth World Conference on Population and Development (Kairo, 1994) explicitly states, quotes: "All couples and individuals have the fundamental right to freely and responsibly decide on the number and distribution of children, as well as the right to information, education and means to do so". The word - responsible lacks this bill and could have made that solution absolutely better. I feel obliged to mention, in my opinion, another lack of this law. It's about a Article 4. It's about an out-of-marriage community. I know it regulates one condition, but the SPS's point of view is that the family is the basic nucleus that needs to bring about the promotion and development of society, and I don't think the solutions that are foreseen here are good. And not perhaps in Article 4, as much as in Article 101, which implies the adoption of a child by an out-of-marriage partner. I think it's deeply inhumane, against nature and other people's culture. The minister himself seems to me, I listened very carefully to him when he mentioned that part of the law and the possibility that out-of-marriage partners would adopt a child, he said - a family. He didn't say - an out-of-marriage community. I think in this way, the minister, consciously or unconsciously, said the essence of this question, that the adoption of children should still be in families, because it is an environment that will contribute to the healthy growth and development of that child. In the end, if we want to survive as a people, we will have to adopt a population policy on a different system of values than we are offered, not in this law, but in general. I think this proposal, which we will announce in the resolution, about the introduction of these institutes into the Constitution and the laws, is something that can bring Serbia an improvement in the demographic picture and that it is fully in line with the world's leading demographics. Until we do, the problem has not been objectively solved, it will exist. I am sure that by adopting this law, we will solve a series of problems in Serbia, but we will not solve Serbia's basic problem, which is to reduce the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12326	The People's MP Vladan Vukicevic has the word, and let the MP Zoran Krasic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12327	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the foundation and pillar of every country is a healthy and happy family. Of course, this family law is one of the most important laws for every country, especially for a country like Serbia. This law respects all those EU laws. Serbia is receiving a modern law on family, which will allow Serbia to enter the EU in a later period. Of course, previous speakers have said much about this law. Many of the old laws have remained in this law and it is normal for certain provisions to remain, but it is also certain that many of the provisions have been complemented and many new members are prescribed by European laws, which will allow Serbia to enter the EU more easily tomorrow and that the family is the sound foundation of society and trustee of every normal state. What should be particularly highlighted in this law is that it is important to change the attitude towards domestic violence, and we cannot boast that there was no such thing in Serbia. It was, of course, going to be in the future, but in any case, it was legally regulated in a different way and it would allow for it to be less and for the family to be more significantly protected. What I would especially point out is the support of a single mother or other parent's child. In the previous period, this was devalued, even in relation to some court decisions and judgments, it was funny what a single mother got, or what she had to survive and suffer to reach what was decided by the court and in some way supported her child, i.e. a common child with a former spouse. However, I wouldn't talk much about the details of this law, it will certainly be in a later discussion and criticism of certain members; and the best law in the world can be criticised, but I think this law, compared to the previous one, is much better quality added, and New Serbia will certainly vote for one such law. But I want to say something else. It is that Serbia has its specificities. Serbia today, as the previous speaker said, is a country of old and weary people, and of course the question arises when we come into the situation to join the European Union, with what and how we will enter the European Union. Whether we're going to enter with a young population or with old people who've been biologically doing their work. Young people are looking for salvation today, looking for ads, looking for opportunities to get out of Serbia's country; they're looking for marriage. Instead of getting married in Serbia, and in Serbia there are fewer and fewer, they are looking for the possibility of establishing a marriage union outside the borders of this country and continuing to live their lives there. Of course, there must be reasons for that. I think maybe this law was meant to cover exactly the population policy, which is somehow always on the side and remains forgotten. We must be threatened by the white plague in the future. There's a lot of talk about the white plague, but it takes a little care how to prevent it. Over 170 schools in Serbia are closed. There are no founding fathers. No kids. There are no young generations. A country that runs out of young people has no future and no perspective. If this way of thinking about marriage and marriage continues, Serbia will be without young people and will have no future or perspective. At times, the position of young people may have been better than it is today. There used to be a possibility of getting, by automation, by job, by getting an apartment. Today, young people are relying on their grandparents, who have completed their working life. It's sad that a young man lives and depends on parents who are 60, 70, maybe more. Of course, it's not just the white plague that's threatening us. In a way, young people behave easily, even spoiledly. I'm a family man, I'm married and I have three children. Nothing in particular took that third child from my home budget, because, of course, there is much left of my first and second child. I just wanted to have three kids. New Serbia is a party where most families have three, so here's our president has five children. Serbia today has a large number of single girls over 30 years of age. Biologically, a woman is the most mature to give birth from age 20 to 40. I'm afraid that in Serbia, if the situation remains the way it is, there will be even more. The attitude and concern of the state are very important for the development of the family. I think that this population policy should have been incorporated into this law, that as a people in the future we wouldn't be lost, lost in the sense that we don't have young, healthy, smart and creative generations, to remain a country of old, sick and exhausted. I hope that, with this law, in the very near future, there will be a law on the population policy of Serbia, which will guarantee young married couples, and of course future generations, that there will be hope to live and work in this country, and that every family and every young couple will be stimulated by the state not to have one child, to just say that, I have a family, I have a son, I have a daughter, but that we have two, three, maybe, like our old, ten children. The one who's with one child... I remember an Albanian who told me 15 years ago, it's their philosophy, "one of the kids is bad children, many children are good children, few are children," he means that one who has one child and doesn't have a lot of problems. But if you know how to preserve and raise children, even ten children are no problem for the family. Of course, it stands before us as one big task, if we want to preserve Serbia, because in many parts of Serbia today, the number of inhabitants has decreased significantly, and if we want to preserve the state then we will have to make one law. New Serbia supports the law, will vote for it. We believe that this is a quality law, necessary for the future development of this society, but we also want that other law, which will in some way stimulate young people to come to the conclusion of as many marriages as possible and, of course, that these same young couples want to have as many children as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12328	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Let MP Miroljub Maric be prepared. According to the Rules of Procedure? (He speaks to MP Leili Ruzdic-Trifunovic. ) At the same time, I am taking the opportunity to give "the sharpest warning" to the MP Stanimirovic, who was due only 38th to contribute to this law, and he gave the first one, i.e. he had a fourth child 15 minutes ago. Congratulations. I hope he's withdrawing the discussion. Welcome to the Rules of Procedure, MP Leila Ruždić-Trifunović. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12329	I have to admit, I went out to advertise Article 99. Rules of Procedure, to object that our agenda is not a population policy, it's a family law. And I wanted to say that in terms of population policy, the Democratic Party has made its contribution today, through one father, a fourth child, and on behalf of our parliamentary group, and I hope all those present, and the mother who had just given birth, congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12330	Thank you, but I apologize to you, it's really not right, please, to insult the dignity of the MPs of the people. I said exactly, God forbid the Democratic Party, but Milan Stanimirovic and his wife. Please, go ahead. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12331	In our parliamentary group, only Democrats are born.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12332	I wasn't talking about birth. I was talking about creation. Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic. Let him prepare himself, if the time remains, MP Miroljub Maric, and once again congratulate Mr Stanimirovic and his wife. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12333	Well, here, for this bill, he probably has the wrong name, because this isn't exactly family law, but it would have to be a law on family, marriage and family relations, or some other variation on the subject, which would reflect the content of this law. But at first, we need to discuss some things. The existing Law on Marriage and Family Relations was adopted in 1980. I point out this because the years of passing this law and all the debates that were conducted on that occasion, starting with the predicate, the draft proposal, up to the very text adopted in this National Assembly, indicate that this law contains everything prescribed by the international conventions that the former SFRY ratified, possibly from 1959 on the rights of the child. If this government truly wanted to regulate this area (I have to remind myself that the existing law has endured changes since 1980, the last change was in 2001), I think it was more correct that this necessary intervention should be carried out through the amendments and addition of the existing law. In what way? First of all, the existing law releases unnecessary terms that mean absolutely nothing today, such as the community of interest, working people, citizens, which represents an ideological omen of a long time ago. Perhaps the second part of the intervention in the existing law would have been something that emerged as some new standard from 1980 to today. And, the third round of these changes would have to cover something in these procedural provisions concerning the fact that we have recently received the Law on Procedural Procedure, and the Law on Mediation, so that these specific regulations should also contain these provisions which are treated here, concerning the procedure in which the rights and obligations under this law are decided. This way, the government went completely the other way, and she mutilated it so much that we practically don't have a definition of family. You don't know what family is in this law. In this law, it is palely given what marriage is. Well, let me remind you of what's generally controversial about this law. We will probably all agree that the family is one of the parents, children, and other relatives, who have mutual rights and obligations governed by this law. We are likely to agree and that it is not enough to define marriage with a simple sentence, but that it is necessary to make it possible for marriage to have the interests of mates, families, at the same time. I'd say that's where society has to stand, because if we just go over this law to the relationship of two people of a different sex - community of life, because here it turns out that the main purpose of marriage is community of life, then we try to misdefined something that is not the essence and content of a marriage, which results from one family. It is likely that marriage is based on some free decision of a woman and a man (of course, the potential of a woman and a man, so that someone doesn't misread it) that they conclude marriage, their equality, their mutual affection, so he's probably not burned to say and to potential that word love, because she's not here, although it's not the law's job to regulate emotional relations. It's probably a place and words like respect, understanding, trust, because marriage is socially verifiable, socially desirable. I'm saying all of this because when you read this bill here, it's completely the other way around. Here, the category of a regulated relationship between a man and a woman called marriage comes down to an extramarital community; as a coincidence, two different sexes happen to want to live together. Someone may laugh, but this is also reflected later on in terms of parental and child relations, maintenance provisions, and what is hereinovtaria – domestic abuse and other things. So the complete inversion is done. Problemary Article 5 might read as follows: "The right to free decision on the birth of children has all the persons who are capable of judgment. The right referred to in Article 1(1) may be restricted in accordance with the law only for the purpose of health protection. "But no, this is where the concept was applied, you hear from our criticisms, long ago recognizable. I don't want to get hold of these amendments, we're going to talk about them in particular, since the 40th Amendment eight has been accepted, the 36 Government couldn't accept it, we're going to explain it, to tell you why it's necessary, but regardless of ideological determination. Article 203 concerns the composition of the judicial council involved in these matrimonial disputes. He says, "The judges of Article 1 must be persons who have acquired special knowledge in the area of child rights. "The conditions for selecting a person for a judge and what it must meet can only be governed by the Law on Judges. It is not by special law that additional obligations can be prescribed, additional conditions, but above all by the law that regulates the area. That law is the Law of Judges. And we don't even know why, we don't know why there's a need for these provisions to change something that's undeniable here to represent the standard, at least the standard of this majority. I reserve the right to make a concrete statement according to the amendments and convince the MPs why it is not good to adopt such a bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12334	The word has Minister Lalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12335	Just a few notes regarding the important remarks that have been made. There was an observation regarding the divorce agreement, which covers the property of that agreement, that it would complicate the whole story. Our opinion, those of us who have done this bill, is that it will not reduce the possibility of a divorce agreement, that the special property disputes that have lasted for a long time have been a problem in itself, which is why the whole situation could not end. We thought it was supposed to be two things that people had a rough deal on. It's our opinion that if they can make a deal about a child, I guess I can also get around the field and the car, so I guess. We don't think this is going to lead to a reduction. We think it's going to be easier to solve that problem in a short time. As for the application of the law of July 1st, and put as an objection, we had to set that deadline, given when eventually the law would be passed over two things. One thing is we have to bring in about 15 sublegal acts for the application of this law. Second, equally important, what needs to be done is specialization, training judges precisely for these disputes. These are two reasons or conditions that moved us to start applying this law on July 1st. As for Article 5, the famous member everyone talks about, the legal formulation is that "everyone has the right to freely decide on birth". That's the formula. This formulation is essentially part of the general human rights corpus. This is the usual formulation – everyone. Here the concept of birth is wider than the concept of childbirth. This provision also covers the issue of family planning and other issues mentioned here. Because of the lack of understanding, it insists on putting the word "woman" instead of "everyone"; simply, it's not a place, it's a whole other matter, or another story. As for several other objections that have been made, and especially when adopted by foreign citizens in our country, we must see the following – when it comes to countries that ratified the Convention, they have an obligation to enable the adoption of children by foreign citizens; and our citizens can adopt a child in that other country, a signator of the Convention. What is important, we said – if there is no interest in our citizen adopting that child for a year, if he has no interest in the child, then a foreign citizen can. A restrictive procedure has been put in place, but the possibility is not closed, because it's in the best interests of the child, when the other can't do it, so that at least live abroad in the family and not in the homes. It's an idea. Also, what's said here about the rights and position of the child, when it comes to a child aged 15, there's an obligation to what it says that's it. At the same time, it was said that it might be too high a limit. The court is always obliged to consider the child's opinion and under the age of 15, where the child's maturity is estimated to have been able to form an opinion, etc. We don't have that kind of problem about it. As for the observation that the amendments to the law were to be made, I must say, in that case, we would have to make changes in almost every member. It's completely pointless to go through with changes to the law if you make changes in each member. That's why there's a new bill here. What was particularly present here, and not regarding this law, is the issue of demographic policy in Serbia, the white plague and the rest. This law is not the place to solve this problem, it is the Law on Financial Support for the Family, in addition, whose changes are being considered in the Government and which should make a certain contribution to this. In principle, I think the problem of the white plague is a broader problem, which this assembly should discuss, but as a special topic, because it is one of the most serious topics, in my opinion, which now exist in Serbia. I would not tie that up on the way to family law, but let's wait for the amendments to the Law on Financial Support for the Family and also an act, which I am working on within the Ministry, on the population policy in Serbia, which will be the subject of the talks and then we will discuss seriously the really biggest problem in Serbia. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-10-0.u12336	According to Article 81(4), tomorrow will be at 10.00 hours, because it will not work on Monday, and there are important laws in place. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours.
