ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22175	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, I am opening the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 210 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Dusan Prorokovic and Suzanne Grubjesic. In accordance with Article 84(2) and Article 85(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called for this session in the working session of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005 and in agreement with the presidents of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, exclusively for Monday, as well as within the deadline set out in Article 84(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, given that the start of political talks on Kosovo and Metohija is expected in a short period of time. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. The government proposed putting the draft resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, which submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2005. I put this proposal to a vote for 124, which was not voted by 95 of the 219 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have made a statement on the proposal to put the session on the agenda of the emergency proceedings, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. For 127, it did not vote 95 out of 222 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. A motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. We'll move on to work according to the established agenda. I'm taking a break from 30 minutes to 10.40 hours. I ask the representatives of the proposings and the heads of the parliamentary groups to hold consultations at the Yellow Presidential Salon, and the Legislative Committee to sit immediately in the small hall. [[After break – 10.45]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again good day, we continue the work of the Sixth Regular Session. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a RESOLUATION OF THE National COMMUNITY OF the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohije You received a proposal for a resolution submitted by the Government. Before the debate opens, I remind you that, according to Article 95. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total debate time for parliamentary groups is five hours, I find that the time of debate by parliamentary groups is as follows: the Serbian Radical Party – one hour 36 minutes, the Democratic Party of Serbia – one hour three minutes 36 seconds, the Democratic Party - Boris Tadic – 43 minutes 12 seconds, G17 plus – 37 minutes 12 seconds, the Socialist Party of Serbia – 26 minutes, 24 seconds, New Serbia's independent MPs 9+9 – 21 minutes 36 seconds and MPs who do not belong to any MP group, four SPP MPs, SDP and four independent MPs, after five minutes, on the basis of Article 93(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. On the basis of Article 160(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a resolution. Does the Proposer's representative, Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22177	Mr. President, honourable MPs, I think we will all agree that today's meeting of the National Assembly is an act of special historical importance. We are considering a motion for a resolution that concerns the future of Serbia and the life of all our citizens. Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, not only part of its history, but also its present and its future. It is, therefore, about Kosovo and Metohija, about our people, about our territory, our dedication and culture, in fact, about our roots and identities. That is why today, honourable MPs, we are deciding on Serbia and ourselves. Decisions of this weight and these seriousness shall be made before the highest representative body of a state only in the crucial hours of the country's life. I have no doubt that in this way today we all understand the nature of the moment in which we are and the importance of the decision facing which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia stands today. At the very beginning, honourable MPs, I think it's more important than anything to adopt these resolutions clearly highlight our goal. That, first of all, means to determine two essential things. First, that Serbia is ready, able and determined to find a compromise historical just solution for Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, Serbia is equally determined to permanently and permanently reject any attempt to impose a solution and take away the work of our country. This means that Serbia is staunchly in favour of compromise, justice and respect for the principle of international law and order. [[Applause]] We firmly believe that these principles are insurmountable and superior to any form of legal violence or resorting to force, as an argument at all. As legal violence and force are not and cannot be any arguments, the principles we call upon, without exception, are those principles which are based on the international order and that all democratic states in the world, when it comes to themselves, are consistently representing and uncompromisingly defending. I am convinced that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would never legalise a solution based on legal violence, any form of coercion and coercion. As you all know, the Security Council made a decision earlier on October 24th of this year to start negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. This decision was made by the Security Council, of course, as a legitimate UN body, implementing its Resolution 1244, which established an international civilian and military presence in Kosovo and Metohija under UN administration in June 1999. The aforementioned resolution, I remind you, has established three basics. First, that the main goal of the international presence in Kosovo and Metohija is to establish peace and stability in the province. Secondly, to confirm the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and now Serbia-Montenegro. Third, that Kosovo and Metohija should achieve the status of essential autonomy within the internationally recognised Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, now Serbia-Montenegro. As I pointed out the essential elements of Resolution 1244, I am convinced that it is precisely this place that the justification for calling on the principle of self-determination, when it comes to the provinces of Kosovo and Metohija, should be fully clarified. So far, in European and world history, the right to self-determination has happened to the peoples, but it has never happened that the right to self-determination and the creation of an independent state has been granted to a national minority. Moreover, there is simply no example in Europe today that one of the same people, calling for the right to self-determination, creates another country besides one already existing. In positive international law, in all existing international documents, the right holder of self-determination is a people, not a national minority. Albanians in Yugoslavia and Serbia, in constitutional and legal terms, have always been a national minority, not a nation. Albanians have their national state in Albania for almost a century and cannot create another country at the expense of any country next door to Albania. The only thing today's theory and practice of state and international relations could accept is their right to political and territorial autonomy within Serbia. It is indisputable that Resolution 1244 is the basis for a solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, and therefore it is particularly important that the document, on the one hand, explicitly confirms the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our country in Kosovo and Metohija, and on the other hand, that no word mentions the right to self-determination of the province. More importantly, there are no words in Resolution 1244 that would even suggest Kosovo's independence, both conditional and unconditional. In the Resolution, to remind you, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro are mentioned on several occasions in terms of essential autonomy, but the words that do not exist in Resolution 1244 are independent, any independence. So today, after more than six years of this resolution, the Security Council, as I said, has decided to join the talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. I would remind that the state authorities of Serbia and the state union have repeatedly warned that the basic purpose of the international community's presence in the province, which had a clear obligation and the mandate of the United Nations, has not been met, to ensure full security and respect for human rights in Kosovo and Metohija. It has made a special commitment, the international community, to create conditions for a sustainable return of as many violently expelled Serbs and non-Albanians as possible. Unfortunately, the international community, primarily decorated in the province's civilian and military presence, has not yet met its part of its commitments. For good reason, he gave us the report, for the first time, by the special envoy of the Secretary-General for Kai Eide Standards, where it is absolutely unequivocally said that the standards were formulated by the group's contact at the end of 2003 in fact unfulfilled, and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija was assessed, quoting Eide's words as "tired and dark". By adopting Eide's report, however, the Security Council has opened the process of defining Kosovo and Metohija's future status, but certainly did not question the remaining two elements of Resolution 1244, which are guaranteeing Serbia-Montenegro's sovereignty and territorial integrity and determining essential autonomy as a framework for Kosovo and Metohija's future status. In addition, the Security Council found that the talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status cannot be stopped, could not be halted, a debate on standards, more specifically, about the failure of human and minority rights standards. The status debate itself will have to be influenced, and how it will affect the real state of the standard, especially when it comes to the rights of Serbs and other non-Albanians in the province. In doing so, of course, it is essential for our country to lead the talks on Kosovo and Metohija under the exclusive patronage and mandate of the United Nations Security Council. With all this in mind, we can accept the Security Council's decision and engage in this process, starting with the clear basic blame of the discussions given by Resolution 1244. We have strong reasons to enter this process as a country that cares about its future and the future of the region. The period behind us, this shortest period of six and a half years, has been long enough to show the true nature and purpose of Albanian secessionist politics. It is simple to use all means to achieve their ultimate and exclusive goal, which is independent Kosovo. This fund-raising policy has been particularly clear since the time of the establishment of an international civilian and military mission in the province on 10 June 1999. Since then, the region has been aware of the policy of ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, with not only Serbs, but also members of all other non-Albanian communities. The facts themselves bear witness to this ruthlessly. I want to remind them. From the province, as we know, for the first months after the establishment of the international protectorate, more than 200,000 people, including most Serbs or about 60% of the Serb population who lived in Kosovo and Metohija before June 1999, more than a thousand Serbs were killed and their property destroyed or adopted. This applies to their houses, apartments, land and other immovable property. 150 Serbian Orthodox churches and monasteries have been destroyed or damaged, the remaining Serbian, and most of the non-Albanian population lives in non-human conditions, without work, without freedom of movement, in constant fear of naked life, except for three majority Serb municipalities, which rely on central Serbia in territorial continuity, where only a free multiethnic life remains in those municipalities. A large part of Kosovo's Metohic territory has been planted with real reserves. The reservation is the right word for Serbs, where people live in unworthy conditions, constantly fearing for survival itself. On March 17th and 18th of last year, the attack was carried out with a thoughtfully-run dissipated mass, with a plan for the work of ethnic cleansing to finally be completed. Such a plan is witnessed not only by the fact that four thousand people from these modern-day ghettos are literally exiled and that their houses are burned down, but also by the tragic fact that 35 Orthodox churches and monasteries have been destroyed in just two days. The pearl of our traditions and the world's cultural heritage, the Virgin of Ljeviška in Prizren, which is not left in peace today, brought down the roof to finish what the Inhumans started. It is clear that all of this is, in fact, the result of violence by Albanian secessionists and their intention to carry out the secession of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro through constant terror. For the purpose of creating an independent Kosovo, ethnic cleansing of Serbs is carried out, making it clear that the idea of an independent Kosovo is fully identified with the idea of a monoethnic and exclusively Albanian state. Anyone who has no prejudice and prejudice based on everything that has been happening in the province since June 1999 must be clear that nothing more than an idea of an ethnically clean state is found in the basis of the creation of an independent Kosovo. So everything else is just a hoax. It follows from all this that our country's task in the upcoming political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status will be multiple. In these talks, no doubt, our representatives must, above all, defend the interests of our country of Serbia and the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. By defending Kosovo and Metohija, however, they will also defend the basic principles on which our country is based, its relations with neighbours, its active policy of European integration, but at the same time defend the principles on which the entire international order rests. Simply put, independent Kosovo would come up with and undo all these principles and cause a major disturbance in the regional but also in the wider international frameworks. Independent Kosovo would, above all, mean that on behalf of achieving unilateral and exclusive objectives of payment and violence, and reckless violation of human rights, and ethnic cleansing and cultural genocide. Thus, it would question many universal values and undermine the very underlying foundations of the world order. No one should be fooled about the seriousness of the possible consequences of such a precedent, which could arise with the realization of the idea of an independent Kosovo. Here's what I'm trying to say, and I'm literally going in a row. For Serbia and the state union, Serbia-Montenegro, an independent Kosovo would actually mean that democratisation and agreement on internal disputes, including conflicts, are not the appropriate means to reach common agreement on basic issues, even if the issues are the most difficult. For the Balkans, this would be a message that state borders can change unilaterally, and this would again result in countries in the region constantly dealing with the issue of borders, rather than improving good neighbourly co-operation and relativeising the importance of borders in the interest of economy, security, culture and the overall quality of life throughout the area. For the European continent and especially the EU, independent Kosovo would mean slowing down integration and creating new security, and this means dividing lifelines. Furthermore, this could not be left without consequences for the entire post-war Europe value system, which is set up both the idea and the practice of all European integration. Finally, for today's international order as a whole, an independent Kosovo would mean an open question of the principles on which the order rests. Not only would this be a violation of the very principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of states, but also a violation of those basic standards on human and minority rights, which are contained in many existing international documents. Moving over such drastic errors would mean a truly dangerous precedent for the entire international community. Therefore, by joining political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status, our country is counting on the principled views that international mediators, the negotiating team of the UN special envoy, as well as the Contact Group, will represent during this process. We have no reason to doubt in advance that they will be governed by the basic principles of international law and act within the framework of binding positions contained in Resolution 1244. The resolution that this congregation today needs to adopt clearly highlights these principles and attitudes, and therefore there is no need for me to repeat them now. What is my duty to point out in this opportunity is the realistic expectation that despite the strength of our arguments, the talks will be extremely complex and difficult. The result that we all need to come to together would have to be a contribution to a comprehensive solution to this difficult and long-term problem. Since there is no one else but to live with one another in the future, we must do everything to achieve nothing less than a historical agreement on the way and conditions of future life together. If the agreement is indeed a key word, then both sides must participate in its construction, but also in its conclusion. It is the only way to guarantee the readiness of both Serbs and Albanians to take responsibility for the life of future generations in the space that historic fate has given us as a common one. Can we imagine that this century will begin by taking this entire space of life together, which is Kosovo and Metohija, one national community will drive the other away and thus adopt this entire space for itself. One who thus imagines the beginning of the century does not understand the most values on which today’s world rests. Serbia has stepped in democratic transformation this century. As a constituent part of the state union with Montenegro, it first regulated its interstate relations with all states and established its status in all international organisations. The process of internal democratisation, institutional and state-level consolidation moves along the upward path, which decisively facilitates the development of internal, economic and social reforms. The recognition that Europe and the world are giving us for this kind of internal change is unequivocally seen through a continuous process of approaching the EU and regulating our status in international institutions and organisations. It is no less important that Serbia-Montenegro become a reliable support for regional stability and a factor in good neighbourly relations. Because of this, the international community, when it comes to a concrete case of defining Kosovo and Metohija's future status, can count on a reliable partner in our country, ready and able to contribute not only to a constructive solution but also to its implementation in real life. Dear MPs, the resolution today to be declared by this assembly is essentially pictured, to point out, the same coordinates for resolving Kosovo's future status and the Metohija that have been established since Resolution 1244. These are the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Serbia-Montenegro, on the one hand, and essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija, on the other. A concrete solution should be found within these clearly defined solid coordinates. I remind this occasion that many European countries, can freely say all those who have sought peaceful, lasting and agreed solutions, have solved similar problems, starting exactly from these same coordinates. There are many well-known examples of this in European history. Such established and developed practice has promoted something that could be called a European solution with full right. Europe, in addition, still has not had one number of unresolved problems of a similar kind, which we are confident will be solved in the near future in a European way, and certainly not through the secession of the work of internationally recognised countries. The conclusion, of course, is that neither in the context of European experience nor in the wider international context, it is possible to find a foothold or a justification for demands for Kosovo and Metohija independence. To add that, Kosovo and Metohija's independence has been unorthodoxly prompted by an alleged argument that the lack of such a solution would lead to a new wave of violence in the province, and violence that would cause a disappointed and hurtful Albanian population. Any team can actually ask itself one question: what would the world look like if they were to begin, that nothing beyond the night of the new state, based on open blackmail or disillusioned violence of individual minority groups? That is why we rightly insist that the highest form of autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija is the only form in which a compromise, permanent and peaceful solution is contained. Such autonomy, guaranteed not only by Serbia, or Serbia-Montenegro, but also by the international community for a certain time, would allow a sufficient number of independent competencies and reliable institutional mechanisms through which the province would manage its economic and social life. In this regard, given the devastating consequences of the situation in Kosovo and Metohija for the Serbian people, it is also necessary to establish an autonomous status of Serbs within the new cosmetical autonomy. This is contained, I will remind you, and it is not necessary, you well know, in a document adopted unanimously by this assembly a year and a half ago as the Serbian Government's plan to resolve the political situation in Kosovo and Metohija, because the goal of a general solution for this province is not only to satisfy the interests of the majority community, but also to create safe conditions for the survival and life of all the smaller communities, of which the Serbian most endangered. The upcoming talks will not only talk about Kosovo and Metohija's future status, but also about the status of Serbs and other non-Albanians in the province. This is actually about the idea of decentralisation in Kosovo and Metohija, which is affirmed in the Kai Eidea report. Finally, honourable MPs, our fundamental views on these issues are well known. I would not like to mention for this opportunity all the words that are in circulation, all the terms used, the policy of Serbia, and despite the differences in the terminology that can be heard, it is the simplest thing that the Serb community must have autonomy within essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. It is understood that our side takes into account the institutional legal elements of this particular content, which will expose, justify and defend during the upcoming talks. The Assembly resolution that you are about to declare today has in mind and the justification for the existence of different modes of this solution, starting with a clear, firm, unchangeable framework for government-binding talks. The existence and acceptance of such modes provides an opportunity for a flexible search for the best possible answers to certain questions, provided that all participants are prepared to do so. Given the one-sided approach of the cosmetian Albanians, we can understand the demand of an international mediator on the application of the so-called so-called "Second Albanian". "A shuttle of diplomacy," but only as a preparation for actual talks that, in our view, can only be conducted in the form of direct talks. We have made that attitude clear on many occasions. Dear MPs, during the past activities of our state authorities and representatives, all relevant actors of the international community, involved in the Kosovo and Metohija problem, are familiar with our principled views and constructive proposals to address the overall problem in the province. In addition, it can be said that they themselves are gaining confidence in our country's ability to make a decisive contribution to the positive deployment of the cosmetian knot. So even in a crucial situation like this, the question is, what is our job or, more specifically, what is our responsibility, what is our debt? In this crucial situation, it is of almost crucial importance that our country, all its citizens and particularly responsible state representatives demonstrate the necessary wisdom, patience and above all the unique will. I am sure that the adoption of the proposed resolution will make a strong contribution to the creation of these preconditions for the successful implementation of the crucial national task ahead of us. In the end, I care about expressing my deepest, sincere belief that Serbia today is not only defending its national and state interests, but representing and defending the principles and values of which the peace, stability and security of the modern world depend. This gives us the right to expect that the Security Council and all democratic states, and at this opportunity, will support those principles, the same one they are strongly and unrelentingly calling upon when it comes to their countries. It's quite clear that, basically, this is about choice between right and force. I really think it's a good thing that Serbia today, according to most of its history and traditions, stands on the side of rights and justice, not force and injustice. That, Mr. President and honourable MPs, I am convinced, means that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its government, defending the right of each force, will be unique and agreeing that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia, that so it is and must remain so. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22178	Thank you. I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want the word. Please, MP Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22179	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that the president did not invite representatives of the recognised religious communities in Serbia to this session, the president of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, or at least His Holiness, the patriarch of Serbian Mr. Paul. Maybe we'd all have a little bit more consideration in the discussions, maybe you'd all feel how important this session is. I felt it last night when I was preparing a speech for this session. There are sessions, there are talks in which a speech should be written, even though your heart and mind tell you what to say, but Serbia is such a country that events precede you, that nothing you imagine or write can last more than a few hours. So is this preparation for a session held on a big Serbian day, on the day of the living Serb saint, the day after which Serbia should also live. Serbia can only live if it fights for Kosovo and Metohija. Today 250 MPs, instead of Serbia, decide whether Serbia will continue to live, and there is no escape from it, and there is no escape from it. No one will come out of this room satisfactorily rubbing their hands because he cheated on someone, beat them, because there is no one here to deceive, only Serbia, only the Serbian people, only the Serbian citizens. In particular, there is no extraction for Vojislav Kostunica and Boris Tadic, and for all of you who took over power on October 5th, because, according to you, we who have fought in one way against terrorists, and then against their mentors from the West, did not do a good thing. You presented yourself as people who know much better, who can find the best solution with the West, in which Serbia will be a country they respect as well as others. You've taken over the government, both the budget and the police, but also the responsibility. Now, I mean, you're on the first big and hard test of responsibility. You didn't help us when we solved the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. Some of you, you can see that from the attitude to this session, have been looking forward to something bad happening to come to power. I don't have the right to bad memory right now, malice, cynicism. Right now I'm trying to tell you, on behalf of millions of SRS voters, what we're willing to support with a government that we don't appreciate, with the authorities we're going to watch to bring down whenever we can, but with the government that is now, with the game of fate, in a position to solve the fates of all of us. That is why today, despite everything, the MPs of the SRS, unfortunately 82, instead of 84, two have been stolen by the decision of your Constitutional Court, will clearly inform you of their decision, which reads: we will help you to preserve Kosovo and Metohija and keep Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. There is no independence between Kosovo and Metohija. We will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution aware of that, and we have told you well-intentionedly, that it could have had to be much sharper, but aware that there is so much difference between you that this was, in fact, the minimum that you could agree on. [[Applause]] Because, like you, there's no getting out of this, there's no getting out of it for us. There's no easy position here, there's no authority or opposition here. This is about Kosovo and Metohija. Not to mention, I can tell you, today, Kosovo, tomorrow, Vojvodina, the day after tomorrow, Raska. Well, as we deal with this today, that's how they'll expect us to deal with each other in the future. That's why it's a little bit of my heart to see that we have unity on this. Don't stop me from telling you what's wrong with what I think of you, because I don't want to introduce to Serbia that you're okay, so I support you. No, it's hard for you, so I support you today, and you're bad. I had an obligation when they moved to Rambouje to tell those who trusted in the world's most democratic countries, the right, the justice, the UN Charter, what was waiting for them there. It's written that they go into a cage, go into lion claws, go into pressures, blackmails, they've all experienced it there. I begged them not to go, but I said I couldn't stop them and that I wouldn't stop them from going, that it wouldn't stay after that telling us how radicals prevent us from trying to talk, democracy, diplomacy to save Kosovo and Metohija. You saw what happened in Rambouille. Today, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party from two corners will light up your relationship with the international community. First, compared to agreements with Serbs, then to the Serbian state in general. Today, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will tell you what should have been strengthened in the resolution, that is our obligation, and we will vote, I repeat, for the resolution in the unchanged text, because we are here to help you do the right thing. Let me try to remind you of the fraud that's so-called. The international community has acted to the Serbian people, not because of history, but because of the future, because you will have to sign something with them, because I warn you that when they sign and accept obligations, then they do everything, and in doing so, the Serbian authorities help them not to meet the obligations. Let's start with the break-up of SFRY. Slovenia has entered a secession from a state that was the founder of the United Nations. She didn't have the support of America. America said Yugoslavia must remain within the borders where it is the founder of the United Nations, but at the same time arming Slovenians. Slovenians killed our children like clay pigeons with sniper rifles. They cut off their food, their water, their electricity, and they wait for them to come out in a royal circle, terrified of hunger, to shoot them with snipers. Today, Slovenia is a democratic country, among its own in the European Union. Some JNA generals have been accused of causing war in the former Yugoslavia, so that someone would not blame the Slovenians. Republika Srpska Krajina, state, constitution, territory, people, military, police, parliament, president, special status, protection of the United Nations, negotiations with Croatia, and then Croatian tanks, the first US ambassador. They execute the greatest genocide, Europe's largest recorded genocide since World War II. Today, Croatia is on its way to being among its own, to be a member of the European Union. The Republic of the Serbian Krajina is not mentioned by any of you. We have experienced that the president of the Serbian-Montenegro Assembly, your member, has banned the entry into the Serbian-Montenegro French Parliament representing the Republic of Serbia in France. Now there are bad Frenchmen. Bad are those who represent Serbs in the European Union. Kosovo and Metohija, the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. To remind you, Kosovo and Metohija is the autonomy planned by Ahtisaari-Cernomidin, according to Resolution 1244. What is it today? Today many of you are probably at night or at home with your friends saying what else can be done. You can do anything, you can do a lot. Kosovo and Metohija can only be autonomy. It can't be further than that. If Republika Srpska became a state after Dayton, and today 10 years later there is no autonomy, if the Serbian Krajina is beaten, expelled, burned, if Kosovo and Metohija are almost in the hands of Albanians, although it is not written anywhere and no one has given them the rights to do so, I am now asking you what guarantees you will have for the talks you have and for the signatures you receive. Will it be the signatures of the same people from the international community? Do we have a friend in the world? You said we didn't have friends in the world. Do we have friends in the world today? My option was Russia. My option today is Russia. The Serbian Radical Party's option is friendship with Russia. You tell me what your option is. I want to know who you're relying on, who's going to guarantee you what you sign, who's going to guarantee that we can carry out what you sign there, because this is history. We should not be ashamed of this history in front of our descendants, but not in front of our ancestors. You accused us of warring for Kosovo and Metohija, some of you. We did. Don't give God never war, God forbid war. And I ask you, when someone attacks you, will you defend yourself? If they attack Kosovo and Metohija, will you defend Kosovo and Metohija? If they attack the NATO Pact and UNMIK in Kosovo and Metohija, will we, together with the NATO Pact and UNMIK, defend Kosovo and Metohija? The government is responsible for these negotiations. Mr. Prime Minister, you personally answer to Serbia for the negotiations and there is no extraction, and you determine whoever you want from your associates, send whoever you want, you can put Boris Tadic on the team, whoever you want, but you are responsible for what they do. We have shared power in Serbia. Let your associates answer to you, but you will answer to us here and you will answer to all of Serbia, because they existed twice, one failed, you say the others will succeed, let's see. Today we must be unique in voting the resolution. Today we must declare this resolution. Who thinks well of Serbia and who thinks to present us here as serious and responsible people today will raise hands for the motion for a resolution. I don't want to go into her parts that were supposed to look different, but please, from the executive authority, you're all one thing, on ballots, all rounding up the same names, and when the parliamentary elections were and when they were presidential, don't perform in two columns. Don't do it because it doesn't look like anything. The assembly has the right to express different views, the executive power has no rights, because then the state comes into chaos. That's why I'm warning the President of the Republic not to surprise us with the views we learn after his visits around the world. Here's where Serbia is being proposed, every proposal you have. To warn him of the Serbian Constitution. He can't wait to put together a negotiating team, because it's not his constitutional jurisdiction. He can participate if he can, if he can defend Serbia in this, the president of the Republic should participate, and that he is waiting for us to assign a team to him who will go to his feet to lead her, let it be missed. I won't be bothering you long, just one more thing to tell you. We're not the forces of chaos and chaos, we're not the Democrats, we're the Serbian radicals. Unlike some who are called Democrats, we have never made riots, chaos, a break in Belgrade. We release you into these open-heart negotiations, we take responsibility that on our behalf, today's vote will take the responsibility to make some decisions on our behalf. But one thing I promise you, in the fight for power, you will never see us in the streets, in the fight for power, no radical will ever throw any stone in Belgrade, but in the fight for Kosovo and Metohija, against anyone, and even against you if you dare to make bad decisions, all resources are allowed by Serbian radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22180	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Do any of the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Here's a word from MP Dusan Petrovic, president of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22181	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of great importance. It's about the territory of the Serbian state. It's a question of the great emotional power of our nation. It's about our history. It's about centuries long behind us. It is also about our not so famous recent past, which has led to today, when we talk about this matter in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, troops of foreign countries and Kosovo are managed by those who have received the task, the obligation, but also the right to manage civil affairs. But there is something more important than Kosovo and Metohija and its issues and resolving the issue today, it is a question of how now lives and how seven million people will live in the state of Serbia. Every nation and every nation is important to its history, but every nation that wants to fight for itself is more important present and future, because only strength in the future will give us the opportunity to fight for each of our national interests. But in order for what is most important for seven million people in Serbia today, we need to show state maturity and vigilance, and whether we have it or not, it will be seen on this very issue. What is the maturity and wisdom of a state and representatives of that state whenever historical topics are important on the agenda wherever in the world, and here in Serbia? As adults differ from children, they are willing to face life and deal with difficult issues, so mature states, wise statesmen differ from politicians by being willing to look into the public eye. What is the reality in Serbia today? What is this reality about Kosovo and Metohija? Everyone knows that, I mean, of these 250 people sitting here. Every minister knows that. That's what the Prime Minister knows. But that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, must also be known to the citizens of Serbia. Are there any serious factors in the world today that advocate Kosovo and Metohija independence? Are there today states that have publicly said that they believe that Kosovo and Metohija independence is a good solution? There are. Some high-ranking representatives of these countries have said so in the near past, weeks or two ago, and here in Belgrade. Do we know that there are also within the world's greatest powers those who think it would be good for Kosovo and Metohija to be independent? Everyone in this room knows that. That's what the Prime Minister knows. Every one of the MPs knows that. Serbian citizens must know that. Does that mean we shouldn't fight for Kosovo and Metohija? Of course it doesn't. Of course it means that we should do everything in our power, that everyone who has responsibility at this point, and each of these MPs in the Serbian Parliament, has the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and has the President of Serbia, and should do everything they can to maintain Serbia's territorial integrity and state sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. But every citizen of this country must know that it will be a difficult fight and that we will fight hard diplomacy to preserve our national interests. Today, this congregation does not discuss what the one who gets her mandate in these negotiations will do and how politics will lead. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is due to give the mandate, therefore, to the government of the Republic of Serbia to enter into negotiations. Or, as this resolution says, talks on Kosovo and Metohija. It is natural and normal and it is within our constitutional system, because the government has been specifically elected and the Prime Minister has been elected and they, as well as the Prime Minister, and have no legitimacy without this assembly to deal with this issue and therefore we are all now in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Democratic Party considers this text to be flawed. What we think is the greatest lack of this text is the fact that defining the issue of Kosovo's future status and the Metohija is being placed within the framework of the existing constitutional system. So within the framework of this constitution, which was brought in during the time of Slobodan Milosevic's presidency, within the framework of the Constitution for which, as far as I know, each of the 250 MPs and each of the parliamentary groups in this assembly thinks should be changed. I wonder what is this solution to Kosovo's status and Metohija, which is the result of negotiations with Kosovo Albanians, to which the international community will mediate, what kind of solution can be placed in the constitution that was brought during Slobodan Milosevic? From the point of view of the Democratic Party - none. Nothing different than what the Constitution says, which is that Kosovo and Metohija are the Autonomous Region of the Republic of Serbia cannot be placed in constitutional frameworks. Because we believe that negotiations under such a defined mandate cannot be conducted in a successful way, we show critical remarks on this point. To return to the fact that statesmen must show maturity and wisdom, and maturity and wisdom consist of facing reality, I draw attention to the fact that anything that is agreed with those who participate in these negotiations or define within the framework of the existing constitutional system is unrealistic. There is another branch of the executive government in this country, which received its mandate from Serbian citizens when presidential elections and citizens' statements decided on who would be at the head of our country. The President of the State does not need the mandate of any of the state authorities. The president of the country does not need the mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The president of the state is limited by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and his strength and right to run politics within his constitutional powers was won when 1,700,000 people in the presidential elections decided to head the country. What is the policy that Serbia has today, and it concerns the question of Kosovo and Metohija? President Boris Tadic, a few days ago, right where he should have done so when one such topic is on the agenda, in talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin, outlined the policy Serbia is proposing for Kosovo and Metohija today. Within the existing borders, retaining state sovereignty, safeguarding territorial integrity, Republika Srpska President Boris Tadic suggested that Kosovo and Metohija be divided into two entities, Serbian and Albanian. Each of these entities should have its own specific institutions, each of these entities should, on the one hand, be Serbian, and on the other hand, the Albanian community in Kosovo and Metohija to enable it to organise its life in accordance with the standards applicable in the modern world, at the beginning of the 21st century, in accordance with standards that both Albanians and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who will create conditions for seven million Serbian citizens to find themselves in the European Union as soon as possible, in a family of civilized peoples living on this continent. About what an agreement would be reached in the negotiations, which are just beginning, joint institutions of Kosovo and Metohija would be formed as a demonstration of public affairs in the agreed frameworks. The Serbian entity would have the right to institutional ties with Serbia, so here, the ministry run by Mr Vuksanovic, the Ministry of Education, would have institutional ties with educational institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. I don't see Mr. Health Minister here, so the Health Ministry would have institutional ties with health institutions in the Serb entity in Kosovo and Metohija. What we call the ministries of force had a bio-adjusting and adequate connection within the plan with the relevant institutions of the Serb entity in Kosovo and Metohija. This policy represents a particularisation of the formula "more than autonomy and less than independence. "This is the initial negotiating position that the President of the Republic, Boris Tadic, has put on the table and I expect that, when this assembly gives its mandate to the government, a representative of the government, and this will certainly be the Prime Minister, on this negotiating position, that this country may have an initial and initial political context with which it will enter into the negotiations that are just beginning. At the very end, I will repeat what I said at the beginning, there is no people and there is no nation that can ignore its history. There is no state without state wisdom and no wisdom without respect for the reality in which we live. Without respect for this reality, the citizens of this country will have no future. The DS is fighting for the future of seven million Serbian citizens. That is why DS will not vote today against this resolution and we are confident that Serbian citizens are ready to enter what is the decision-making process for Kosovo and Metohija, fully prepared and aware that the future is most important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22182	Thank you, Mr. Petrovich. Before I ask if any of the other presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word from Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus. Here you go, Mr. Labus.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22183	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the break we have made a gentlemen's agreement to report to the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Government, and essentially to speak on behalf of the G17 Plus parliamentary group, so no one else from G17 plus will take the floor. G17 plus supports this resolution. It was created as an agreement within the ruling coalition, which does not mean that we are all satisfied with every point of this resolution, but that is the smallest common denominator that could be achieved at this moment and that we believe is important at this moment. Today is Arangelovdan. More than a year ago, G17 plus suggested that an international conference be organised on today and that standards and status be discussed. There has been no conference so far, but on our side, meanwhile, significant progress has been made. Today we know more what we want to achieve, not just what we're not going to achieve. Today it is clear that after these negotiations, there will be an international conference, because it is necessary to guarantee regional stability, and not only members of the Security Council, but also countries in the region must confirm that there is no change in borders in this area. Arangelovdan is also important because of one other thing. Ten years ago, the Dayton Agreement was signed. As we all know, the Dayton Agreement brought an end to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the beginning of peace. Resolution 1244 wasn't made on Arangelovday. She brought the end of the war, but she didn't bring peace. We need to negotiate today a lasting and peaceful solution to the situation of everyone in Kosovo and Metohija, especially the Serbian people. We need to be realistic and it is perfectly normal, and today there are three proposals on the table for negotiations: our position, the position of Kosovo Albanians and the Contact Group. We need to be realistic and realize there are no common points today between these three proposals, but it doesn't mean there won't be any tomorrow. The essence of the compromise is to find common points and ensure lasting peace. From the point of view of principle, this resolution has two important principles. One principle is to safeguard territorial integrity and sovereignty, and that is certainly the most important principle. In addition to that principle, there is a principle of protection of human rights. For G17 plus, it is important what tomorrow's solution will be and whether Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija think that this solution provides them with security or have some other opinion. If I may say so, it is certain that there will be a referendum here in Serbia, but before that, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will vote in a special way, the moment they hear what we have agreed, it is up to them to light up tractors, to sit in a trailer and come here or decide not to do so, to sleep peacefully. It's up to them to assess that. It's up to us to keep that in mind. So, are we going to have tractor and trailer columns again or are we going to allow people to live peacefully and safely in Kosovo and Metohija. We certainly need to fight to keep her from being precedentd. We had three precedents. The first was related to the Badinter Commission's decision, which decided the country fell apart in 1992. The second precedent was related to the Dayton Agreement. The third precedent was tied to the bombing without a Security Council decision. We don't need a precedent anymore. And here is a very clear proposal. The Prime Minister said we want a historic agreement. G17 plus that says the same thing, we want a historical agreement. We and the Albanians will live in these areas tomorrow. We and they have an interest in living as good neighbours, and the message for us and for them is: it is only possible through the process of European integration. A message for Kosovo Albanians is that the road to Brussels does not lead through Tirana, it leads through Belgrade, because we live in these areas. We must do everything to make sure that tomorrow, as good neighbours, we live, that Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija sleep peacefully and have perspectives. So, for G17 plus territorial sovereignty and the country's integrity are very important, but at the same time, it is important that we provide the future for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, and that future can hardly be achieved if people in Kosovo and Metohija have no business. The area along corridor 10 from Nis to Skopje, both on the left and on the right, is the area with the highest unemployment, three times higher than in Europe. If there's no job, there's no peace. The obligation is ours, but also the obligation of the international community to make it possible to develop the entire area. I think that we should start the proposal that, after achieving lasting peace and a sustainable institutional and status solution, a donor conference should be held, to allow for the rapid development of the entire area and to be the first symbolic gesture for a lasting care, above all, of the European Union to address the problem of unemployment. People, in order to stay alive in that territory, in order for sovereignty and territorial integrity to be preserved, must have work to do. So people have to have perspective. So, G17 plus, as part of the ruling coalition, is ready to take over his share of responsibility. We don't overestimate our role, but we don't underestimate it, as much as we can contribute to both the country and abroad, we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22184	Thank you, Mr. Labus. The word has been given by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22185	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, the topic we are talking about today is not just about us present in this room. The theme we're talking about today is the Serbian Archetype. The topic we are talking about today is about Serbian roots, Serbian villages, but unfortunately also Serbian divisions. I hope and I do, and that's why I've always thought, and I naively hoped, that this subject doesn't even need to be scheduled for a session. I hope, naively, that this topic also requires Serbian unity. It seems to me that we have spent too much time in our history, not only in these 15 years, that someone thinks history starts from October 5th to today, but we have spent too long and too many decades in our history accusing each other, not realizing that we are also not fighting ourselves enough against what is a constant of politics in Kosovo and Metohija and all these decades and centuries. The constant is a constant, unique and persistent desire for Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija to create an independent Kosovo and Metohija. Here we are several political parties representing, among other things, not only the citizens of Serbia but also the Serbs. Among us, it seems to me from what we have heard so far, there are already serious differences as to how we see the future of Kosovo and Metohija. Do any of you doubt whether there is any difference between Albanian political parties? Is there a political party in Kosovo and Metohija, which are currently in the Kosovo Parliament, where these tones can be heard as here in the Serb assembly? No, because they know what they want. They want Kosovo and Metohija cleaned from Serbs independently. Do we still not see it or do we not want to hear it and keep wasting our time accusing each other? So today I think, above all, that we as the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the MPs elected by the people, including our people living in Kosovo and Metohija, should give recognition and gratitude to all Serbs who, despite the terrorism and ethnic cleansing they have experienced, others living there in Kosovo and Metohija, are aware that this can be dangerous for their lives. Is Kosovo part of our history, is Kosovo part of our future, but Kosovo is part of our present, and there and today our people live, and it does not deserve to hear from this speaker perhaps some doubts about how they will live on. That's why I think it's the basic order of all those who appear here, to give first of all the credit to the people who stayed down. We can fight here as much as we want for Kosovo and Metohija, but if the Serbs are not in Kosovo and Metohija, there is no Kosovo in Serbia either. I think we should remember to pay tribute and recognition to all those who gave their lives to defend their people and their country, in all the struggles for the freedom of the Serbian people and for the survival of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's not just about the last 10 or 15 years, it's about the last few centuries. Also, I have to take this opportunity to say that it is necessary to give thanks to those who in the latest war gave their lives and defended Kosovo and Metohija when we were exposed to the bombing. They defended their country and people, and listening to what we are saying here today and what we have written, they defended the basics of Serbia's policies, they defended the foundations of the Serbian people's policies, which is that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. That is why they gave their lives and they are not war criminals, there was no collective, organised and systematic genocide of the Serbian state and Serbian people in Kosovo. On the contrary, there was ethnic cleansing of Serbs by Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. I hope that it is high time to experience sobering, that all those who have spent ten, fifteen years talking about the main problem of human rights shortages in Kosovo, had enough opportunity to see after 2000 that it was absolutely never a topic of agenda, but that the topic was exclusively the creation of an independent Kosovo and Metohija. In addition, I would like to remind you that even in the time of the former SFRY, our country has invested $20 billion in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, that our republic, the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo itself has proposed the highest degree of autonomy anywhere in the world, that even an international presence is accepted if the political agreement on Kosovo is signed. The only thing the state wasn't prepared to agree to, and I don't think you're ready today to run this country, which is to call a referendum that was scheduled by the Rambuje agreement, was provided for the right of the so-called Kosovars to hold a referendum after three years of holding an international conference in Rambuje. Ladies and gentlemen, if that were accepted, that referendum would have been held in 2002. Today there would be no Serbs in Cosmet, today Kosovo would be an independent state, because I hope there are no doubts that Albanians know what they want and that the outcome of such a referendum would be known in advance. It is also clear that in Kosovo and Metohija there was a very controversial and something, on the basis of which was the bombing of our country, such as the so-called Račka massacre. Did that really happen that way? Even Mrs. Ranta herself, who was a pathologist in that case, admitted that the Racak case was fabricated. I would remind you that the Markals were also fabricated to bomb Serbs in Republika Srpska, and so Racak was manufactured, so that the bombing of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija would be carried out, of course, throughout the Republic of Serbia. We have also drawn, both as a state and as a people, wrong moves by amnesting Albanian separatists and terrorists from Serbian prisons. They were not in Serbian prisons because they were political prisoners, but because they killed Serbian children and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. We think it was also a mistake to participate in the so-called. to the temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, because this assembly declared it to be the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called Kosovo-based institution. Hackerup's constitution was illegal and illegal. Also, it is absolutely unwarranted and the participation of Serbs in the elections, so-called "Serbs". elections in Kosovo and Metohija, as this legalises the temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. What are the standards that are fulfilled in Kosovo and Metohija. Standards were spoken before status. Now you're not talking about it anymore, now you're talking about standards and status at the same time. They'll be talking first status soon, then standards. Simply, there is no Cosmet of Multiethnic Cosmet, because Albanians do not want to live in peace with Serbs. The solution for Kosovo and Metohija, as far as Albanians are concerned, is that there are no Serbs in Cosmet, and I guess that's clear to everyone here after so many centuries. What is happening today in Kosovo and Metohija is the direct consequence of the non-implementation of UN Security Council Resolution 1244. That resolution, as you know, like all other Security Council resolutions, has a binding character. It was brought on the basis of the UN Charter of Chapter VII. She was the result, she was also the result of the bombing of our country and our people. It is not ideal, but you still mention it today as something that is the only straw of salvation that today holds Kosovo and Metohija within the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country and our people. Those who insisted that the resolution be passed today do not respect that resolution. I would remind you that in that resolution, it says - peace and security for all citizens, the disarmament of terrorists, the return of refugees and displaced persons, the return of Yugoslav personnel, military and police for certain purposes and essential autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija. Of the 280,000 displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija, only 2% have returned to that province. There are about 215,000 non-Albanians living in Kosovo, some 150,000 Serbs. Since KFOR and UNMIK's arrival, there have been more than 7.5 thousand terrorist attacks in Kosovo. More than 1,200 Serbs were killed, injured and injured more than 1,500 people, destroyed and damaged more than 150 churches and monasteries. In Kosovo, terrorist gangs, not only Al Qaeda and Mujahidin, should not go that far. The KLA and the Albanian National Army are members of the official Kosovo structures, the Kosovo Protection Corps, the Kosovo Police Service, the Government and the Kosovo Assembly and the Metohija and of course political parties. Only by which the Albanian is on the list of Carla del Ponte to be in front of The Hague tribunal. Even if it is found there, it is soon released to defend itself from freedom, and even allowed to deal with politics until his final judgment is handed down. Those who have implemented an ethnic cleansing policy not only remain at large, but are released when arrested in Europe on the basis of an Interpol warrant, and the previous Serbian government has participated in this, sending messages that they are warrants of the former regime, which are not now in force in some new regime. These were APBs, ladies and gentlemen, for terrorism, against those people who killed not only Serbs, but also Albanians who were loyal citizens of the Serbian state. Unfortunately, there is customs between Serbia and Cosmet today, although Cosmet remains a formal part of Serbia, and even after the Security Council resolution, and there is no customs duty between Cosmet and Albania. Today, citizens of Serbia living in Kosovo, when they move to Serbia or when they want to exercise certain rights within Serbia, outside Kosovo and Metohija, within Serbia sometimes citizens of the second order. There's no unique information space. You also know when it was 17 March ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and Metohija, RTS and other our media had direct reporters from footage of US troops entering Baghdad, Afghanistan and other cities in the world. All night, a picture of a burning mosque from Belgrade was spinning, while in Kosovo and Metohija burned Serbian shrines and killed people. Do we consider Kosovo and Metohija part of our space? If our media can't go there, if our politicians don't go there, if our businessmen are developing business in Tirana, not in Kosovo Mitrovica or in Gracanica, then how can we ask those Serbs who live there to stay alive without us being allowed to go and not consider Kosovo and Metohija an integral part of our country? Economic assistance to Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, the economic development of Serb parts of Kosovo and Metohija is of course very important, because without it Serbs will not be able to stay there to live. Kosovo, apparently, is slowly slipping towards independence. You know that the European Commission has on several occasions discussed the issue of Kosovo and the Metohija's participation in the stabilisation and association process by means of a special mechanism independent of Serbia-Montenegro. The European Partnership for Kosovo was also announced. You, as you know, can hear from the Contact Group every day that they allegedly don't know what they're going to suggest, but they're not going to be allowed, as they say, back to the state of 1990. Two, you won't be allowed to join another state. Under three, partition of Kosovo and Metohija will not be allowed. I think we're all politically intelligent enough to, if we rule out all these three options that are listed here, we don't have to play hide-and-seek and think about what's left of it as a possibility. It should not hide that there are indeed large centres of power, including some members of the Contact Group, who advocate Kosovo and Metohija independence. If the formula "more than autonomy, less than independence" may seem to some as enigmatic as regards the SPS, it is possible to be decrypted in only one way, which is essential autonomy and significant self-government for Kosovo and Metohija, within the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country, just as it is written in UN Security Council Resolution 1244. We didn't write that resolution. For the resolution to be accepted in this assembly, Serbia was bombed for several months. She was accepted as a condition for ending the war. Who today can change the conditions under which the war is interrupted? Also, we believe that the international mission, military and civilian, is responsible for implementing Resolution 1244. This means that until talks on Kosovo's final status and Metohija are completed, everything must be done to respect the resolution in force. We need to stop trying to solve this before the final solution. The policy of the final act must be stopped. If there are no more Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, we have reached the policy of the final act. As regards the motion for a resolution itself, as regards the SPS, the text of the resolution is acceptable to us, among other things, because it contains several key issues. First, it comes from Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. If it deviates from this rule and from this principle, our country has a completely legitimate and moral international right to demand that it also depart from this principle in some other territories. How is it possible for the entire territory of the former SFRY to be subject to the principle of integrity of borders, and then it is not possible to form either autonomous or any other republic, Republika Srpska or Republika Srpska, and when it comes to the issue of Serbia, then it is possible to step down a little from the principle. If he deviates from that principle, our country should ask the issue of Republika Srpska. How is it possible there are double arches? It's possible, as long as we don't ask why it's possible. Also, this resolution is acceptable because it comes from essential autonomy and significant self-government of Kosovo and Metohija, as a form of political solution to the crisis from various UN Security Council resolutions. You all know that the international factors of all these weeks have put a lot of pressure on this session of the Assembly not to be held at all. Why? Why is it important for some countries of the international community not to meet? So that we would not allegedly cite some firm attitudes from which one, later in their negotiations, might, in their opinion, deviate from the will and decisions of the congregation. That's why for us this resolution, and this resolution -- treasure, but with these basic messages, it's acceptable, because it's something that our country cannot back down from. It is very important and ready for a peaceful and agreed solution, but that the final verification is given by the National Assembly and citizens. What is most significant, any imposed solution to Kosovo's future status and Metohija must be declared illegal, illegal and invalid. Now some people here are going to ask a question - what if it happens, what are we going to do? There's no question for us. Kosovo and Metohijani the question of our history, as someone here has said, referring to the 1990 Constitution, and not answering the question -- why haven't you changed that constitution, because for five years now, some new forces have been in power that allegedly fought against that time? Why didn't you change that constitution? After all, all the officials of this country, including the president of this country, have been elected under the constitution and has the authority of that constitution. Then how is it possible one day to respect the Constitution and advocate the Constitution, and the next day to say, "We don't have to stick to the Constitution as a drunk float." Of course, we believe that it cannot escape the issue of Kosovo and Metohija in order to make seven million people live better. No one in this country will live better if we agree that Kosovo is not part of Serbia. Wherever we go, as the song says, we cannot escape, we cannot get out of our soul Kosovo and Metohija. The Greeks today believe that Constantinople is the capital of Greece. We must respond to the pressures we are exposed to to abandon the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty of our political unity. Serbia is as strong as it is unique. That is why today all those who wish to flee from this unity are, in fact, working against Serbia and against Serbia's interest at the moment. (President: Time. ) I thank all those present today at this session who will support this resolution. We'll support her forever. You don't have to ask us at all if we're going to vote "yes" or "no" if it says that Kosovo is part of Serbia and that we are going to fight with all forces not to accept any imposed solution, because without state, without Kosovo, without Serbia, there is no SAA, but there is no DS, no DSS, no SRS. No parties without patricium and no country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22186	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. The word has been given by the president of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9, MP Veroljub Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22187	Mr. Prime Minister, Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Ministers, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group and seven independent MPs will, of course, vote in favour of the resolution. We don't have any dilemmas here, and we don't want a single point today. That's why I think today we need to get out of this room unique and make the message unique. That's what I especially want to point out and that's what, for me and for us, is basic. Let me remind you, and that says in paragraph 3 of this resolution, something that is unequivocally unequivocal, that we don't argue about it, where it says that if there are any problems, if something is imposed, that we will consider it illegal, illegal and illegal. I guess that's all there is to it. Let me say, again with a very low tone when I say it, because that's what's important today when it comes to reality, is the reality of how we live and that's a big question, but I guess the reality of what's happening to us in Kosovo and what's happening to us is that there's something called preparing for negotiations in Kosovo. That's the reality. Who are we talking to today? Today we're talking, I think, let me say something that's been told thousands of times. Maybe it's good to say it some more times, but maybe not very well today. Who are we talking to? If we're telling ourselves, we know all that; if we're telling Serbia, we know everything; if we're telling Albanians, I guess they know it; the Contact Group, too. It's important to me, Mr. Nikolic said it, that we can do something here, that we face each other, in the executive power we shouldn't, I agree, but unfortunately and that's the reality, and there's some things we've understood and we haven't ended up, even in the government that's on stage right now, acting like we should always. And I'm saying that there must always be someone who's in the coalition right and there's no personal attitudes, no party attitudes, and I'm not talking about this subject. So, in my opinion today, we shouldn't disagree on this subject and get out of here without making any other arrangements. We can probably almost all think differently about the quality of this resolution. Anyone would add something, someone would take it away, but it's important what is adopted today. When he adopts, there's no more talking. All of us, whether it seems to us that she should be sharper or less, must stick to her until the end. That's what I think is most important. So I would ask everyone today when we come out here and decide, to start acting in accordance with the resolution, everyone in every place, especially publicly. Only then will the public understand, not ours but international, that we are unique, that these are our frameworks and that these are our attitudes. So, of course, we will vote in favour of the resolution, with what we believe, and I am saying from this place that there should also be a representative of the Serbian Orthodox Church for several reasons, for a moment, for the sake of the people and for property. Today on the Holy Archangel, and to me is glory, I want those who celebrate so much happiness, to them and their guests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22188	Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 93(4), they are Article 4 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a debate on a written statement with the order of MPs, submitted by Serbian Radical Party MPs, the Democratic Party -- Boris Tadic and the Socialist Party of Serbia. The word of the Messenger of the people is Zvonimir Stevic; and let the messenger of the people be prepared, Natasha Micic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22189	Dear President, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all Orthodox believers on the baptism of St. Archangel, especially Serbs and Montenegrins in Kosovo and Metohija, who today celebrate this christening glory, also representatives of the seventh power and the Association of Journalists and Journalists. Dear People's MPs, for all of us today's topics and debates are of fateful importance, and in the next, I believe not so short, we will deal with the period at all with the easy work, finding a solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. Many claim that we have almost the last chance to approach this priority with great responsibility from the national and national interests and that we firmly, organised and wisely conduct negotiations, in order to preserve the integrity of our state territory and its part, which is our former and spiritual cradle. Given the circumstances in which we run this process, the task is not easy at all. As a man living in Kosovo and Metohija, in Gracanica, in the central part of the province, but also as a member of the state council for Kosovo and Metohija and the Kosovo Assembly Metohija, and as president of the Kosovo Socialist Socialist Socialist Party, there is no doubt that I am aware of the enormous responsibility that the negotiating process has for the further fate of Kosovo and Metohija, the survival and further life of Serbs in its country and its hearths. It is certain that the outcome of the negotiations will depend on the fate of more than 120,000 remaining Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the right to return more than 200,000 exiled, most of which live across Serbia and Montenegro in almost impossible conditions. We Socialists believe: that negotiations for us would be a success, it is essential that we achieve full unity in formulating the motion for a resolution of this assembly on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, but that we continue to act unitedly in the direction of the overall activity of our negotiating team, whose composition, I believe, reflects the real needs and delicacy of the upcoming negotiations. In a clear definition of the objectives that we are in favour of, and they are contained in the Government's Proposal for a resolution, it is necessary to have such an approach that will represent our highest responsibility and the dignity of the task, but also to require a full review of any move leading to the achievement of this basic objective, because at no cost we must accept, nor allow, imposed solutions to these negotiations. Instead of representing some party or partial and individual interests, we must face the real situation and without vanity, personal undersight and without soloist appearances, in teamwork we must fulfil the obligations that apply to all, in order to defuse the transparent intentions or subsidisations that offer us as a god-awful way out in the form of a conditional or any other independence of Kosovo and Metohija. Our firm plan contained in the motion for a resolution, which is today in front of us, which I consider an acceptable platform for starting negotiations with the Albanian side, must only be the solution that will not challenge the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, that is, its state territory, because if all our relevant political forces are not unique in achieving this and this defined goal, we will suffer the extremely harmful consequences of every reckless step. The government of Serbia and the competent state institutions and their officials will direct the key directions of the negotiating process, and it is necessary that they also make an effective and extremely wise route for diplomatic and overall activity, and that we must present ourselves as an organised state that cares about a comprehensive solution, which would not endanger good neighbourly relations with countries in the environment, nor regional stability in the Balkans. In that sense, I would especially like to refer to point 5. The motion for a resolution, which clearly states that the future status of Kosovo and Metohija must allow respect for the human rights of members of all national communities, regardless of whether they form a majority or a minority. I will remind you, although you are well aware of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs are at risk in every respect and without any protection. The latest example of planting an explosive device under a truck in the centre of Strpce on Thursday, when three Serbian national and Albanian youth, a truck driver, were injured, is most illustrative. There's psychosis and uncertainty. The Serbs are upset and expect upcoming negotiations with suspense. They are without rights and freedom, with limited movement, without the ability to work and live from that work. The most difficult situation is in the edge areas of Serb enclaves, where they live as in the reserve. It's risky to leave the house and yard. The peasants don't even process the land, nor are they able to defend their humble property from the usurper. So days in suspense are spent by locals who can only move close to their houses in the Suvo Grlo, Osean, Orahovac, Bichia, Velika Hoča, Sviljar, Obilić, as well as in Pristina, where several dozen residents live in the JU program, and in the harsh environment raise dozens of children who daily, from last year's March pogrom of Albanian terrorists, without any escort to the school in Laplje Selo. Examples of this general uncertainty and threat are at stake. Besides, Cosmet's running crime, drug trafficking, weapons and people. More and more frequent attacks on international representatives in Cosmet. Another UNMIK vehicle was destroyed in Pristina on Thursday. The houses of Serbs, even the renovated ones, are still on fire, such as the recent case in Obilić. He's threatening kids and old people. Armed raids await Serb police officers, as was the case on several occasions on the Uroševac-Strpce road, until the arrest of Serbs, such as the recent one in the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica. He threatens Orthodox priests, defiles churches, steals valuables from them, and vandals are destroyed. What to say about the promised declared standards, whose application should ensure a safe and safe life, a condition for the return of Serbs and create the possibility of restoring their property. These are issues that must be referred to international officials and the public in the world, but also to Albanians in the upcoming negotiations, because from these examples I have highlighted it is clear and unequivocal that the most vulnerable rights at the beginning of the XXI century are the rights of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. That's what the international community sees, but it pretends not to see. That's what the international community hears, but it pretends not to hear. By applying double standards and double arches, European parliamentarians have passed a resolution on the alleged threat of national minorities in Vojvodina, Hungary and Croats. After Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's platform in the UN Security Council, which is the necessary framework for our further action, and the resolution that we are going to adopt today, should be rejected all the controversial thinking of representatives of some non-parliamentary parties and exhibits of certain NGOs, which, unfortunately, only prove that Kosovo and Metohija, as a fatal issue of national importance, are experiencing as a ballast that they would like to get rid of. These are, fortunately, ephemeral self-invited self-invited ones who cry for media presence, although the question of who they represent and whose name they speak. No one has the right to make such rare and unreasonable leaps a halabuku and media vision and allow these imaginary sizes to remain on the public stage. The fraud of this type and the play of the fate of the rest of Serbia's life, which defends the right to Kosovo and Metohija as part of Serbia-Montenegro's sovereign territory, with indignity, rejects Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. They demand that the views contained in the Government's motion for a resolution be expressed in all state institutions and by individuals representing them, as a guarantee that they will not deviate from the defined one during the negotiation process either. Such support was provided last week at a meeting in the northern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and representatives of the Serb people, with representatives of the Association of Displaced Persons. I would like to point out that I support the direct dialogue of our representatives with the Albanian side, because unlike the mediators in conducting the dialogue, who would propose and impose solutions on us, we must deny the requirements for an independent Kosovo, which, in some assembly platform or resolution last Thursday, have been passed by delegates to Albanians in the Kosovo Assembly in Pristina. No platforms or resolutions on the so-called Confirming the political will of the people of Kosovo for the independent and sovereign state of Albanians cannot be acceptable to us. We have an inconclusive argument in international documents. The Socialist Party of Serbia believes that the subsequent personal proposals and additional initiatives of certain senior officials, which contribute to softer attitudes than already established definitions, will not force our negotiator's position, such as neither the well-intentioned efforts of the SPC nor its dignitaries, who rightly want to present their arguments to the public, to contribute to a more successful resolution of Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Finally, to say that we must all actively advocate the application of this resolution by the Serbian Parliament, as well as the previously adopted Plan for a political solution to the situation in Kosovo and Metohija, because they essentially reflect what is the subject of Security Council Resolution 1244. In all these documents, they are contained as the starting points of the general principles of international law, which clearly determine that the territory of the Republic of Serbia is unique and inalienable, so as it stands in the document we are adopting today, it is unacceptable to secede from the sovereign state of the part of our territory, because it would be a kind of precedent in international relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22190	Thank you. The People's Messenger Natasa Micic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22191	Ladies and gentlemen, every policy is measured by the results it has led to, not by the mere desires and factors that affect this policy. The previous presentations were more demonstrations of these desires, and there was a lack of consideration of the consequences. I remind you that one irresponsible and unrealistic policy from our recent history, and it was just Kosovo, led to the next -- a 1998 referendum that led to wars, bombings, the emigration of Serbs from Kosovo and the difficulties in the situation of those who remained to live in Kosovo. What distinguishes the policy I stand for from this policy is priorities and goals. Priority should be people, people, not territories. It is clear in the modern policy of the XXI century, but unfortunately it is not clear here in Serbia, although we have had bitter and difficult experiences and examples on which we could learn something. The unity that is created in this congregation is merely an illusion. That unity isn't sincere. It's about common interests that are essentially different. Some have an interest in amnesting catastrophic old politics, and others in holding their positions, and that's bad. So you will be responsible for the better position of people in Kosovo. You will be responsible for creating conditions for the return of Serbs to Kosovo. Since I do not want to participate in this performance, I will leave this session of the Assembly as an expression of disagreement with your policy. I will certainly not comment on the negotiations, not just to make it difficult for you, but not to seek an alibi for any failures in this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22192	The People's Messenger Dusan Petrovic has the word, and let the People's Messenger Alexander Vukic be prepared. Okay, Dusan Petrovic is giving up the discussion, as he has already spoken. The People's Messenger Alexander Vucic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milorad Vucelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22193	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Serbian Government, today we may have the most significant text and the most important topic since the start of Parliament's work in this session, and I find it interesting that certain parliamentary groups and their MPs show great indifference. It's a good thing these cameras don't show everything in this room, and some people who wait for one word to speak and go eat and drink, and others who won't listen to their fellow MPs because they're very hard, they've had a hard time, they've got smart work to do today. I am proud and happy only for one thing, that I belong to the SRS parliamentary group, whose MPs, with the exception of one seriously ill, are here in this room and will neither eat nor drink until today we finish, because this is in the interest of our entire people, in the interest of all Serbian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we today need to make a decision on how and how we will behave in the future on Kosovo and Metohija, what will the Serbian Government do, what will the representatives of all the state bodies of the Republic of Serbia do. Someone can't be excluded from the decisions of the National Assembly, because I'll remind some of them, who think they're very smart, that the highest representatives of Hitler's Germany, against whom they are most God-awful in the most terrible way possible, say Otto von Kelraiter, said that the president doesn't need a connection between him and the people, he doesn't need a National Assembly, so don't say that anymore. The National Assembly needs everyone. The citizens of Serbia are represented here in the best way. I will not talk today about those who wish to represent Hashim Thaci's policy in this House, those who receive and money from Hashim Thaci, nor do I care. I want to talk about the citizens of Serbia. And these are tricks they do. They say it's not important territory. From where anyone in Serbia is entitled to give up a field, a meadow belonging to this people, to our citizens. Are you going to say tomorrow, when someone wants to separate another piece of territory, so this is about five million citizens staying on the rest of our territory, and then this three million. Where do the Serbs end up moving out? Where in the end all Serbian citizens move out to be satisfied and to say, it is not important territory, we only care about people. In Kosovo and Metohija, we have 10,887 square kilometers, which is 13% of our country's territory, for those who do not know. Someone says it doesn't matter. I'm sorry, it's important, and how important it is. It's important, because it's our country and nobody who laid hands on the Constitution, and the Prime Minister, and the president of Serbia, has no right to say, territory doesn't matter, because we don't have a spare country, we only have one Serbia and we won't give it. I will remind you of something, we spoke here, and the head of our parliamentary group Tomislav Nikolic spoke about acts brought against Serbs and Serbia, which were also not realised because they had a grain in favour of Serbs from Serbia. I'll finally read it to you, because a lot of people say we lie when we say things like this, you read. So, I'm going to quote Resolution 1244, point 4 says: we confirm that after the withdrawal in the agreed number of Yugoslav and Serbian military and police personnel will be allowed to return to Kosovo to perform their post in accordance with Annex two. Ladies and gentlemen, in part two, so point six. Anexa 2 says -- after withdrawing, in an agreed number, Yugoslav and Serbian personnel will be allowed back to perform the following functions: a link with the international civilian mission and international security forces, marking, or cleaning minefields, maintaining presence at Serbian historic sites and maintaining presence at key border crossings. Where is it, ladies and gentlemen, why didn't they do it? Why do we get into any conversations and negotiations with anyone before they make that commitment they made to us? No one in Serbia was happy after the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan, not even you who voted for the plan. No one was satisfied with Resolution 1244, which was imposed on this people. Why don't they fill it? Why are you talking about anything, why can't we hear you say, do what you brought against Serbia. Fill it out. When you do, we want to talk further. Will you sign something for Serbia tomorrow? Something less bad than this, so to say, I'm sorry, that's out of the question. Ten years ago, the Dayton Agreement was signed, bad for the Serbs. Milosevic lists territories from the west, instead of hearing Drvar, Grahovo, Key, Petrovac, Krupa, and we hear Šipovo and Mrkonjic. After all, they say, well this is not good either, because it has Republika Srpska, because it has Serbs. Now we're going to lift their Republika Srpska. Are those our guarantees? Is that what we can talk about today? Who guarantees that what we talk about and what we agree on will be respected. This is a lesson for you and for us here. Don't say that again. It doesn't say that in Resolution 1244, and I don't know what it is. Here, it says. Why would they, whom you said you were friends with them and that they would solve as a democratic question all your problems, not solve it? Why don't they give what they imposed as a commitment? Why don't they do it? Because Serbia's occupation is clearly wanted. Do you see how they lied when they said it was a humanitarian intervention in 1999? They said, "Mercy Angel," that Albanians do not flee through the Curse and that they do not go to other countries. There are no Milosevics now, there are no authorities, there are no humanitarian problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Now he wants amputation, anxiety, occupation of the territory. That's clear. We have to stand up to it, because there's no end to it, people, there's no end, because next time you're going to tell us, so it's reality policy and being what has to be. We're left with these seven million, so that's 13% territory, no big deal. We have many dangers ahead of us. Of course it will be very difficult, because your great friends, who you said would solve our problems, come into our country and in the port of the Gracanic Church, say: Kosovo should gain independence. You don't care. That day, instead of being here and talking about the budget, you go and make that same Drnovsek a lovely hat here at Mercury and hold his concerts, and you say, it's a good thing you told us that Kosovo and Metohija would be independent. Thank you so much for that. That's what representatives of the Serbian government do. You should be ashamed of that. You say, every day we listen, and it's time to end it. While listening to some representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, there is an Oliver Ivanovic, not to mention their names at all. I don't know how many of them, their role in life is a representative of Serbs from Kosovo. Only when the election comes they're nowhere to go. They get one, two or three percent. Those who get 70% and 80%, which are Serbian radicals, are nowhere to be found. You will not ask them because you are smart, because you have your idiots who will listen to what someone else will tell them, tell them and what will be against the interests of Serbs. Their function in life is that they are representatives of Serbs, which no one has ever chosen. You all know that in this congregation. You all agree with that, and you'll call them again to ask for something of them, because some of them foreign service activated, because some others are asking for plans, and now they're gonna have a special team, so at some point to agree with the story, people are important to us, we got special status for Mitrovica, we got a lot of money for our churches and monasteries, so make it conditionally independent, it's important that we can live here well. Well, he can't. The territory of Kosovo and Metohija is the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which I like or do not like, as I do not like the President of the Republic, who was elected President of the Republic under that constitution. And if some other constitution had measured who had more votes in the people in the first round, not that you were all uniting against one, it wouldn't be the President of the Republic today. This constitution once suited him, and now the Constitution does not suit many others. We have an obligation, when we talk about security and human rights, to say, yes, these are extremely important issues, but not more important issues than our country. Nothing's more important to us than the state. Is it possible that we in Serbia today do not remember the six boys who were killed in the oven cafe, and that every day they talk about the crimes of Serb military and police forces. I have to read, and do these names mean to you: Gvozdenović Vukota, Radevic Ivan, Stanojevic Zoran, Obradović Ivan, Ristić Svetislav, Trifović Dragan? These are young men, 17-year-olds and 18-year-olds, killed in an oven cafe. Where are their killers? Has anyone done anything about it? It's not. There's one more thing to tell you, and I'm done with it, with the gratitude that you've had the patience to listen to me. We in the SRS are the most convincing political party in Serbia. We wanted a fundamental role, some others are ruling today, they've taken over it. We will bring down our political opponents from power, from all levels of government, and we will win all the next elections, but what we are different from others and some that represent some strange policy, we will bring down political opponents, yes, but the state, our Serbia and our people will never be destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22194	The People's MP Milorad Vucelic has the word, and let the MP Meho Omerovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22195	Dear President, the Prime Minister, honourable MPs and members of the government, no generation of Serbian people in modern history has, more or less dramatically, passed the Kosovo and Metohija problem. So it's not about the new temptation and it's nothing harder today than it's ever been. The election is not new, it is the same as many times before, it is the same as it was before the SPS and President Slobodan Milosevic. Just because it means that today we need a lot of wisdom and wisdom, courage and determination and, as the Prime Minister said today, a unique will. This is our historic temptation. This is our state exam. We are at the test of history and we must do everything according to our abilities and abilities. The Serbian state and the Serbian people have never capitulated on Cosmet, even when we were occupied, we didn't capitulate, and that's why it's historically current, no one has in any act of capitulation a stand to take from us Kosovo. We'd be first here, and I'm afraid there are candidates for that championship today in Serbia. Today we agree here at the National Assembly of Serbia that our largest international foothold is United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. That resolution was an act that provided conditions for the end of the war. Aggression is interrupted, the war is halted in 1999, because Serbia has recognised state sovereignty and territorial integrity throughout its territory. We have state sovereignty and territorial integrity, and Albanians are full of autonomy. It guarantees the return of all exiled to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The attempt by individuals to make this act of the Security Council and some of the documents derived from it relativise, devalue or arms are in fact aware of the attempt to weaken and our negotiating positions and our commonly known rights and strongholds. This guarantee of our sovereignty and territorial integrity, which I say the deed to Kosovo and Metohija, is paid by victims and blood, and today also pays by the lives of those Serbs and other non-Albanians who live in Cosmet today and now martyrly. Supporting today's resolution on Cosmet in this National Assembly and determining the mandate of our executive negotiators, we must be aware that we cannot and must not concentrate all energy and activity solely on the negotiation process. We must be informed of everything and control everything that happens, but Serbia must be focused on the return of exiled Serbs and non-Albanians to Cosmet. All institutions of the Serbian state must focus and devote all their attention and resources to constantly correcting conditions for the life of Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. We can all just as well strengthen our negotiating position and we can strengthen our right to Kosovo and Metohija, as always in history, be part of Serbia. Any plan for Cosmet, including the one for decentralisation brought by the government of the Republic of Serbia, cannot be good or successful if there are no Serbs in the southern Serbian province. Serbia must increase its integrated power and, insisting on a parallel process of standards and status, raises standards on its own. The political task of all MPs, as well as other politicians from whatever parties they have come from, in addition to what has been said must be the constant encouragement of our public and the awakening of the battle hope based on our ability, determination and willingness to fight for what is ours, by all rights and justice in this world. Only with its clear demands and views contained in this resolution and everything it is called upon, as well as the willingness to stand up for them without exception, can we also give the great powers and the international community the opportunity to hear and support us. Those who are not ready to fight for something and to support their right to this fight with the power of arguments and courage cannot expect support from anyone else. Support must be called upon and called upon by determination and courage. We can only lose what we give, surrender or sell. The political forces gathered here need to use all their influence to place on the margin and the sideline track of history all those who spread hopelessness, discourage the people and the fatalist, primitive-cynic everything, and call upon the worst imposed solutions. We should say today and tomorrow that we will never, ever accept the imposed solutions to Kosovo's independence and to our country's dismemberment. Historically civilized nations have never caved in to racism and terrorism, which we face today at Cosmet. Historic nations do not treat their territory, their people, and their citizens with lewdness. We cannot accept as normal and agree to the liquids of ethnic cleansing. And that we're not just talking about Serbs this time, that we're talking about the Roma, who were at Cosmet 264 thousand, and today there are 30,000 of them, what is it if it's not genocide. It is also necessary to say that by agreeing to change the borders of a European and democratic state, the crossover of the Balkans, would also be responsible for all potential developments that would endanger peace in this part of the world. Just today, the tenth anniversary of the Dayton Agreement, which, thanks to Slobodan Milosevic, brought peace to this soil and thanks to the victims in Republika Srpska, also brought to Republika Srpska. We support the resolution offered today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We socialists also contribute to this our political strength, the assets of our policy, our beliefs, and we contribute to the unity that we need and which, I am sure, we will achieve today. We are ready to take on all the forces we possess and all our abilities and fight for our overall policy in Kosovo and Metohija. That, according to us, means looking reality in the eye. It means having state wisdom and maturity. Dear President, the Honorable Prime Minister, honourable MPs, I am convinced that in this way today's historic decision, at this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are enrolling in the honorable history of our ancestors, ready to follow it consistently and recommend the future at the same time and deserve the memory and meaning of our descendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22196	The word is by MP Meso Omerovic, and let the MP Alexander Vlahovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22197	Mr. Chairman, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the moment the resolution on the mandate for the political solution to determine Kosovo's future status and Metohija began, we are witnessing public competition and swearing to the necessary unity. Even reaching unanimity on the matter. Although it insists, unfortunately, unity is essentially gone. The parties and their highest representatives held positions that were largely opposed to each other in the previous days. To be clear, I don't think putting different attitudes on the table is a bad thing, because the old truth is that where everyone thinks the same thing, no one actually thinks anything. The prime minister also made it clear at the Security Council session that Serbia is a democratic country. Therefore, the difference of opinion that democracy implies cannot be ineffective. Whoever suspects, remember the merits of Milosevic's very effective regime, which has so insistent on unity, which is why Serbia is now negotiating Kosovo and Metohija. Let's see what kind of unity this is: unity with the representatives of the policy that is said to be -- if we don't know we are working, we know that we are fighting, which has brought us into the situation and the position in which we are today, which is not at all envious; unity with representatives of those ruling parties who are also officially in favour of Kosovo and Metohija's independence, even in three steps, as they say, either for Kosovo and Metohija with transparent borders; and unity with party representatives who are a recent coalition partner to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whose one part of Kosovo and Metohija stands for independence. As regards the very text of the resolution, in addition to the catalogues of internationally adopted norms and human rights and freedoms, and the list of existing obligations of state bodies defined by the Constitution, the resolution must also contain a description and assessment of the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija. It must contain an assessment of the international engagement in Kosovo and Metohija since 1999. It must have an assessment of the degree of compliance with the obligations arising from UN Security Council Resolution 1244, such as the proposal for concrete measures and activities for the negotiation processes of the proposal for concrete measures and activities relating to the fulfilment of standards, such as functional decentralisation, return of property, privatisation, cultural heritage, etc. It is necessary for the resolution to define our negotiating approach in light of the 10 principles of the Contact Group, which are completely ignored in the text proposal. The resolution should also explain why the mandate is given to the government of the Republic of Serbia, which enjoys 15% of citizens' support, while the Albanian team has the support of 97% of the Albanian electoral body in Kosovo and Metohija. The purpose of this formulated motion for a resolution is only to give the Serbian Parliament a mandate to the government on the one hand to get the exclusive right to represent the will of the people, and on the other hand, to cover a possible failure, as such a resolution shifts responsibility for the outcome of the talks to us MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The legitimacy of this assembly and the legitimacy of the government is also questioned by the fact that one of the largest parliamentary parties, DS, is not involved in the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly. It is therefore necessary to call extraordinary parliamentary elections in order to establish a natural relationship between the forces in parliament and the executive government. Meanwhile, given the importance of Kosovo and Metohija issues, it is necessary to take steps to represent the negotiating team of Belgrade as many Serbian state voters as possible. In this regard, the SDP proposes to form a negotiating team of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which would make up representatives of all parliamentary parties, i.e. one of the highest representatives of the parliamentary party. It should be borne in mind that, in accordance with Resolution 1244 and the positive regulations on the organisation of the referendum, it is necessary to declare in a possible referendum our citizens of Albanian nationality from Kosovo and Metohija. Accordingly, it is necessary for this assembly to be determined according to their participation in the referendum, which the motion for a resolution provides for itself by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end, ladies and gentlemen of fellow MPs, the SDP will not participate in giving legitimacy to a document that would serve only as a cover for the ruling coalition's political needs. The SDP ultimately requires that the text of the resolution be, above all, in the interest of the people of Kosovo and Metohija and in the capacity to strengthen our country's negotiating position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22198	The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic, and let the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22199	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, respected Ministers, Mr. Prime Minister, Kosovo and Metohija is a very important political and state issue and may even be one of the most important state and political issues, but we cannot say that at this point is the most important state and political issue. The most important state and political issue, not only at this time, but all the time in the coming years, will be the situation in the economy and will be the standard of living for our citizens, not only those living outside Kosovo and Metohija, but also our citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija. Only an economically strong state can achieve its political and state objectives. If we do not have an economically strong state, then it is hard to believe that we will also achieve our defined political and state objectives. All the time after this speaker, an atmosphere is created in which the sign of equality between territorial integrity and state integrity and resolution is withdrawn as defined in this text. First and foremost, I do not know any relevant political party that in any way questions the territorial integrity and integrity of state territory, for the simple reason it is impossible to question, because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia very clearly defines constitutional frameworks for all state bodies, both for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and for the President of the Republic of Serbia and for all other state bodies representing the state of Serbia. Therefore, there is no need to constantly and persistently repeat as one of the main qualities of this resolution the issue of preservation and territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. If the main quality of the resolution that we are adopting today is precisely our reshuffle and the adoption of an act, which is far less important than the highest legal act in the state of Serbia, then I really don't see why we have to discuss today in such a framework as it is defined. At this point, we need real policy in order to realise state and political objectives. I must admit that the objectives set in presenting Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Kostunica, are acceptable to the DS, which is the goal that says a compromise solution, a compromise solution for the realisation of state and political objectives. However, the question arises, if the objective is a compromise solution, why is real policy not followed by an appropriate text in the resolution on the final status of Kosovo and Metohija. Why is the resolution burdened by item 4, which is not about territorial integrity and integrity of state territory, but about constitutional order as defined by the Constitution, and which can be a rock on the neck to finally achieve a solution that is acceptable to the state of Serbia, a final solution to Kosovo and Metohija's status. That's the whole story. Territorial integrity, integrity of state territory is defined by the Constitution. There is no need to repeat that story all the time, nor does that story have room for a resolution, because the Constitution is very clear and defines the frameworks for the behaviour of all state bodies representing the state of the Republic of Serbia. At this point, we need an active policy, not the policy that has been characterized throughout the 1990s, the policy of withdrawal, the loss of pace, the loss of initiative, not the policy that may have been and has been characteristic for the past year and a half, when some other important state issues directly affecting the situation in the economy and the standard of living, but the policy of active solutions, which will be based on a realistic assessment of the existing situation. We do not need an alibi policy, to say the least - it is not in line with the structure defined by the Serbian Constitution. Then it is best to send the Constitution of Serbia and say - ladies and gentlemen of the negotiators, when you agree with the solutions that have been reached and which have been defined, solutions on the state structure in the Constitution of Serbia, then contact us and there is no need to negotiate. What we need at this point is more than some false unity that we are constantly talking about, a realistic approach to assessing problems and an active policy of finding solutions to these problems, which must respect the principle of territorial sovereignty, state integrity. The same applies to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the president of Serbia and to all other authorities. Be assured that the President of the Republic of Serbia, proposing his solution, and that he has in mind the powers, rights and obligations defined by the Constitution, and that he has in mind these very principles concerning the territorial integrity and integrity of the Serbian state. With this in mind, the question arises as to why the institution of the referendum is re-emerged at the end of the resolution. If it is a violation of territorial integrity, the Constitution again makes it clear that only a referendum can decide on border changes. Then there is no need for the referendum to be in the text of the resolution. If the idea of finding out in the end that we've tried everything, and in the end, well, we haven't been able to do what we wanted to do, so to find cover for political responsibility in the institution of the referendum, then that's not good. The president of the Serbian state has the mandate of citizens, i.e. it is clear to all, the mandate he won in the elections for the president of the Republic of Serbia, in the way and according to the electoral procedure that exists in all developed European and world democracies, which is a two-way electoral system. I do not know any country that has a single electoral system for electing a president, and therefore it does not need to seek the mandate of either the National Assembly or any other state authority. What I would like to say is that it is politically inappropriate, not to say politically illiterate, and perhaps factually, not perhaps, but certainly unfounded, the comparison of Germany in the 30s and the elections in Serbia to the president of the state, because whoever had the knowledge of history knows that there were elections for the Assembly and the election of the Chancellors. That's absolutely incomparable. The term of office of the President of the Republic was won in the electoral process, directly from the citizens. The government must be given a mandate for negotiations and for the formation of a negotiating team, because the government does not have the mandate of citizens and therefore requires a mandate from the Assembly. I don't want to talk about the legitimacy of the government, I don't want to repeat what the opposition said then, when it was in opposition, and today it's in position, and it's pro-legality. I'll leave that to other MPs, those who remember what was then said about the government that had only 24% of citizens' support at the time. This government today has 15% support for citizens. So I don't want to talk about legitimacy. It was never a political rhetoric of the Democratic Party, but if it were to be negotiated at all, it would be necessary to have the National Assembly's mandate. The government knows that very well. It would be better to come to the National Assembly with a resolution that explicitly requires a mandate for negotiations, without introducing any, conditioned to call them the sneezing provisions that reduce the manoeuvre space for the final agreement. I repeat, the DS, as a state-owned party, as a relevant political entity in Serbia, respects the principle of territorial integrity, state integrity. I really don't know any relevant political parties today that question the principle of territorial integrity, state integrity. Therefore, this resolution would even have to, in addition to the verbal objectives, contain a way, a strategy to implement this verbal goal without being burdened by restrictions that reduce the negotiating space of our negotiating team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22200	The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and by MP Zarko Obradovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22201	I want to apologize to you all for the change of attitude I'm about to make. So, the Assembly should also insert in the resolution a part of the text prohibiting Boris Tadic from coming forward about resolving Kosovo and Metohija's problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22202	The word is by MP Zarko Obradovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22203	Mr. President, I've come out to advertise violations of the Rules of Procedure, provisions of Articles 103 and 104. It seems to me that today is an extremely important day in our recent political history and that it should not be the subject of individual or party political ambitions to overcome this assembly and say things that are against the state. The previous two speakers tried, speaking on the subject, to talk about something that is not on the agenda, about the situation in Kosovo and Metohija during the 1990s, and especially about not telling the truth about the period. I think there's a need to react to that. Namely, the truth works, since there is obviously no responsibility, let alone state wisdom, something must be said that was the essence of the policy of the Serbian state in the 1990s in Kosovo and Metohija. We have led a policy against terrorism and Albania's integration policy into our state and political system. Those who won't understand it, I don't know what to tell them to understand that Albanians during the 1990s were part of our political and state life, that they were using the rights of the Serbian state to the extent that it was appropriate for them. Let them be, let them not. It was the subject of their political will. You remember the education agreement between Rugova and President Milosevic. No one in the world questioned the Serbian state's policy on the fight against terrorism until October 1998. Why the Americans changed their attitude in October 1998, that's what we need to talk about. What did we get? I have one more thing to say. The opposition then said the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a democratic issue and that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is a matter of human rights. We have been arguing all along and it is now seen to be a territorial issue for Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija. Since 2000, we've all been defeated. The state of Serbia has been defeated and all of us with the state of Serbia. Why? Because the international community, based on its 1999 mandate, practically implemented a policy against Serbia. Whether I see it or not, whether we admit it or not, ethnic cleansing has been conducted, 250,000 people have been expelled. Today, it is not one word that attempts to condemn this shameful act and the conduct of the international community, but rather trying to talk about past times. Which is a lot, it's a lot. What do Albanians have since 1999 to Serbia, to that non-Albanian citizen of Kosovo and Metohija? He's the subject of ethnic cleansing. Please, because of this assembly and the topic that is on the agenda, I ask all my colleagues to take care of how they behave, because you see some of them and the Constitution is not good, and the Constitution is good, to the extent that the political moment is appropriate or the vanity of individuals who have led politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, whether they recognize it or not. The most responsible are those in our country, our citizens, who worked most with the international community because they amnested their policy. Now you can't get away from it. The election will be, but today it is on the agenda of Kosovo and Metohija, and who does not understand it shows in fact that personal ambition puts ahead of the state issue. I think it is a shame to speak in such a way in the Serbian Parliament, today when Kosovo and Metohija are on the agenda and today when we need to show unity to the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22204	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. You asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. After the replica, the People's MP Aleksandar Vukic has to present his MP, Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22205	Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, an important and too difficult topic is on the agenda today. I understand that there are personal impatiences, and I understand that many of you don't like the president of the country. There are different emotions, they have always been in politics, there will be in the future, but today is the moment and the time when everyone needs their position and their attitude, at least I think so, to take it up with care and to say what they think is best for this country and for the citizens of this country. This assembly and that it will not have the right to say anything about the term of office of the President of the Republic, but of course this assembly will not. That is why I call on everyone to keep their personal emotions, their feelings to themselves, because today we are talking about how the Government of the Republic of Serbia will in the coming days, weeks and times put ahead of us within its constitutional powers. The election was, the election would be, but not today's elections, neither they behind us, nor those ahead of us, the subject. Today, the theme is how to be wise and state-of-the-art about this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22206	The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vucic, a replica. He's giving up. The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and let MP Zoran Angelkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22207	Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at the fact that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija today has been on the agenda, given that it has been a democratic issue for years, which democracy came on October 5th and I don't know how this issue has not been resolved so far. I am not surprised today by these and these tones from some non-existent parties, one political creation, the Civil Union of Serbia, or a political party of the SDP, which apparently lacks its identity. I am not surprised by the view of the Democratic Party, given what it has been doing these 15 years and what the president of this political party has been doing lately, which is unfortunately also the president of the state; the president who is obviously not with himself, who when he looks in the mirror doesn't know whether he came or came, a man who has a problem with himself, and then of course when he doesn't have a personal identity, he doesn't even have a national identity. As far as I can see, we are bringing this resolution, but unfortunately the talks and the resolution of this important issue will go on two tracks: one, which the government will do on the basis of the powers that parliament will give it and others who will also be the self-proclaimed god of the sun, the president of this country, who thanks to you, Mr. Kostunica, for having so warmly supported him, lead him and who knows where it will take us. That disunity has cost us so much so far, and it just looks like it's gonna cost us. Some people don't care if this important question ever gets resolved. We radicals, truth be told, suspect that it is time to resolve this important issue, that there have been international circumstances that would be favourable to us. Obviously, you have to enter into negotiations, and that's why we want to draw your attention to some very important things from the near past, in order not to make the same mistakes. It is that we have adopted here on several occasions declarations, resolutions related to Kosovo and Metohija, and we have always had agreement on that, regardless of what we have objections to the texts of these resolutions and declarations, which we believe may have been insufficiently sharp, perhaps not sufficiently clear, that they are not lenient, that they are lenient, that all votes of the Serbian Radical Party you have had, considering that unity is necessary on this important issue. Let's go back a little bit, call for a memory of the beginning of the crisis and the collapse of the SFRY, that once we agree that there was a break-up of Western forces, that separatism, and then civil war was on the outside, that Western forces supported first Slovenian separatism, then Croatian, and then Muslim in BiH, and that only then came Kosovo and Metohija, although, from the beginning, we claimed, the goal of number one was Kosovo and Metohija. Until we all agree on this, we can't be strong enough, nor can we continue to resist the desire for Kosovo and Metohija to break off and to literally and legally remain without sovereignty and territorial integrity over that part of our country, and it's obvious that there are political forces in this country that can't simply cross over the language and say -- yes, the civil war was induced from the outside, the Western forces were those who wanted to break up Yugoslavia, and then everything that had to happen happened. That is why we are warning those political forces that make the government watch what they are doing, because how do we believe the Democratic Party of Serbia wants to protect Serbia, and in Vojvodina it supports those political forces that run a completely different policy. Are these two political parties and what is the right one: this one in Belgrade or the one in Novi Sad? That's all we're warning you about. Don't look at the problem from today to tomorrow and from topic to topic, you have to keep everything in mind when you're doing something. Let's remember the peace-making document, known as the Ahtisaari-Cernomidin plan. Only we were radicals against that document, all of you were in favour, you who were in parliament and you who were then out-of-parliamental parties. Vuk Draskovic then declares: "This is a wonderful day for the Serbian people. Our territorial integrity and sovereignty is fully preserved. We now have to open the door to all refugees and humanitarian organisations, and we need all possible help to reconstruct the state." For us, the radicals say we've come to a primitive stand against peace. During this time, the president of our party, Vojislav Seselj, explains the consequences of the document, warns: "When they strengthen the separatist power there, they go to the rest of Serbia. Once their troops get there, the next ultimatum will be to go freely through Serbia, to have diplomatic immunity, to come from the top, from Hungary, across all Serbia, so that they can stop by the way." I remind you, that was five or six years ago. Was he right? Didn't Vuk Draskovic sign that and such an agreement with NATO? Yes, it is. You see, in the mass of reasons why you don't need Vojislav Seselj here in the country is that he could tell you in person what devastating moves you're willing to make. He knew more than you knew, because his intentions of the West were clear, order of moves carefully planned, and he knew you all so well that he knew that you were ready and "the devil to serve". Why do I remind you of this, and why, now that the Assembly needs to appoint you a mandate for political talks? At point 2, you rely on the UN as a guarantee of respect for international law and the overall world order. I wonder if the Dayton Agreement is respected. No, I don't. Has he been trampling for ten years? Yeah. Is Republika Srpska disappearing? It's gone. Is the Republika Srpska Krajina gone, though it was protected by the UN? Yes, it is. Is Resolution 1244 being trampled? Step on it. Did any document provide for any parliamentary elections, customs at the administrative border of Kosovo and Metohija? It's not. Has our army and police returned to Kosovo? It's not. Did they escape and the displaced come back? No, they're not. Then how can we trust the UN? With that, you have to go to negotiations and talks. You can't trust them, they step on what they signed themselves. With all this in mind, it is clear that the UN's intervening role is not well-intentioned. I remind again that the Western forces initially did not question the integrity of the SRJ, but tendingly, in their Contact Group acts, never mention Serbia, seek autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija, not to mention that Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of Serbia. Of course that's tending, because if it ceases to exist, as it is, here's Mr. Labus alive here, along with Solana and Djukanovic signed it, then that question is reopened, as it is open, regardless of Resolution 1244. I mean, you've been on their hands a lot since 2000. Consider the problem a little wider, in light of the geostrategic interests of the United States and NATO, because it is another important point as a foothold for the destruction of Russia, the second is in Central Asia, and the third is Ukraine. So don't sign anything that would mean our consent to take away a piece of territory, because even though we have an occupation now, that occupation must come to an end. We may not experience it, but what our lives are compared to the millennium duration of the Serbian state. It may wait for our sons, and if not, grandkids, but Kosovo and Metohija must remain in Serbian hands. If you'd listened to us in the '90s, if we'd been smart and unique back then, and we can't be sad today, do you think we could have had all this happening to us and what happened to us? But no, you were blaspheming, complicated, with a sense of inferiority, for a handful of dollars, to reach out to those who knew exactly what they wanted and only used you to reach their goal. How else do you explain the fact that so far we have a minority government, although a third of the electorate is for another political party, that it takes responsibility for the state. We are not so hateful to you, only your Western friends did not allow you to work with us in the interest of this people and this poor country of ours, and unfortunately we do not have others. If they take Kosovo, if you allow us to play with DS, Canka, Kas, this is how you play with Vojvodina, it will soon be the West and whoever wins in Serbia, because Serbia will not actually be, because the single Serbian state, which will involve all Serbian countries and the majority of the Serbian people, regardless of religion, must be the meaning of our political action. The Serbian Radical Party – as you have heard with the additional exposure of the head of the parliamentary group, I really think it is absolutely right that this resolution must stand for the fact that it prohibits anyone other than who at this time is empowered to discuss this issue, and especially Boris Tadic, who can cause us enormous damage, working on two tracks like this – will support this resolution, although with all the arguments that we have given you and the warnings, which I think you will accept as well-intentioned and which you will have in mind by working on this important issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22208	The word has a folk MP, Zoran Angelkovic, and let Ljiljana Nestorovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22209	Dear President, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are giving a framework for talks on Kosovo, we are giving a framework to a delegation that will form for talks and a continuation of talks that lasts for decades. The Socialist Party of Serbia, when it comes to state and political issues, and above all about the state-owned national issues of the Republic of Serbia, has always asked for a single platform to be reached and in this sense this platform, which is proposed here in the Serbian Assembly and which comes from the basic documents and everything that happened in the previous period, and above all from Resolution 1244, will of course vote in favour of this resolution, will vote in favour of the platform and the framework under which the delegation should do and work. The Kosovo theme in this parliament or better to say here in this hall is decades old. Of course, the participants in the whole story changed. MPs also changed, organ members changed, governments changed, regimes and systems changed, but unfortunately, the topic, issues and problems remained completely identical. On the other side there, Pristina, it was very clear -- ethnic cleansing and independent Kosovo. It's been carried out through various forms of all these decades. We all remember in 1971, ethnic cleansing and so on. The republic of Kosovo, essentially independent; in 1981, food, problem in the dormitory, again ethnic cleansing, re-exorcision of everything not Albanian and re-republic of Kosovo and more specifically, independent Kosovo; in 1988, November, a re-armed rebellion; in February 1989 and March 1989, re-armed rebellion and again ethnic cleansing and re-examination of Serbs from Kosovo; in the mid-1990s empty Albanian warehouses in the Albanian state, in the presence of international forces that were then in Albania, switching everything to Kosovo and so on. K.O.K., so-called KLA terrorist organisation, two-thirds of occupied Kosovo and Metohija, and again independent Kosovo, and once again ethnic cleansing, and once again ethnically clean Kosovo. How Serbia defended everything and how it reacted independently from governments, regimes and systems. She tried, as we say, to integrate Kosovo within Serbia. We've invested millions of dollars in Kosovo's development. We've made dozens and hundreds of factories and tens of thousands of jobs. We were trying to save that space. We have opened education, education, and made the largest university in the Balkans in Albanian. This size, according to the number of students, was neither in Tirana nor not in Tirana today, and not only then. Today, there are fewer students in Albanian language in Tirana than there are in Pristina. We did everything, and we did even when they prepared the weapons and when they set out to occupy the territory, and we defended ourselves and defended ourselves and with weapons, yes and with weapons. Then when it was not enough to oppose the state of Serbia and then we defended ourselves, and defended, exactly, from NATO bombing. Today, there are controversy whether or not we have won or lost, and essentially we have received resolution 1244. We didn't win or lose, but they didn't come and occupy Kosovo, and they didn't take it, because if they took it, we wouldn't be able to talk about it today. When we know that, what is today's topic of conversation. Also, the same position, and regardless of how much they cleaned Kosovo from non-Albanians, how many fewer Serbs there are, were expelled 240,000, because we speak only from July, June or September 1999, or of those 300 and 200,000 who were expelled in the 1970s, independent of that number, is the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Whether there are 1% or 5% of Serbs in Novi Pazar, it is Serbia. Regardless of whether there are Serb churches in Djakovica that have been torn down or no Serbs in Djakovica, it is Serbia's space. How much autonomy we'll be willing to compromise. We always have been. All the past decades we've been ready to compromise, only one we weren't ready for, and that's not to be the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because it can't be. And it can't be as long as it's smart in this state of Serbia and most of it's normal people living in Serbia. There will always be a normal majority in this House, although there are those who have always been against it, and today they are against it, and they will always be against it. They are an irrelevant category for Serbia's politics, for the state of Serbia. I am convinced that this government delegation, this group that is formed, cannot give up on that platform. Yes, a compromise on the need for Serbs to return to Kosovo. Yes, compromise that all those who have been expelled must return. Yes, compromise that everyone must live safely. Yes, compromise that this territory must develop economically. Yeah, compromise it to be broad autonomy, as much as it takes. But there is no compromise on the fact that at the border crossing, General Jankovic must have the state flag of Serbia-Montenegro. That's what this House cannot negotiate... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... and conversations, and that's what I think we need to be unique about, and we're going to be as unique as we were when it was so much harder than today. That is why we are today supporting this resolution and the platform to discuss a delegation that will discuss Kosovo and Metohija's status in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22210	Ljiljana Nestorovic has the word, and let the MP Dragan Sutanovac be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of the government, it is more than clear that no solution resulting from negotiations on Kosovo's final status and Metohija will be able to fit into the constitutional framework that is now in place. I totally agree with that. This was made clear through ten principles on which she decided to work the Contact Group. It is also aware of the prime minister himself and the government, otherwise in paragraph 10 of the proposed resolution, would not stand to resort to the referendum as a possibility, because as the president of the Constitutional Court of Serbia has specified, the referendum is a constitutional obligation in case the status of a part of our country's territory is changed. It is precisely because emphasising the possibility of a referendum highlights the most negative solution for us, which is the independence of Kosovo and Metohija, which should not stand in this resolution. Maintaining sovereignty and integrity, and in terms of achieving stability and lasting peace in the region, has its essential meaning and that is what Serbian citizens should know. That, for example, means the formal participation of Albanian representatives from Kosovo in Serbia's executive government. And are we ready to, say, offer Albanians the post of minister of police, economy or, say, justice? If we are, why don't we say it out loud? If we are not, then what does it mean to advocate territorial integrity and sovereignty, because Albanians living in Kosovo today, under these conditions and under this constitution, represent and bear the acts of sovereignty here. This resolution does not contain what is the essential interest of citizens of Serbian nationality living in Kosovo and Metohija to obtain a guarantee for a European level of protection according to Kai Eide's recommendations. Instead of the big words intended for internal use, the raising and hunting of unsuspecting people, or Brankovice, as we heard here, to see what our strengths, our opportunities and our positions are and what we can do in accordance with our historical responsibility. With this resolution, unfortunately, we are not responding to the problem of returning directly related to integration into Kosovo society, the problems of return to property, privatisation, the long-term rent of social agricultural land, the need for proportionate representation in public services and other life issues. There is no return to the situation before 1999, it is a clear and cruel message that Serbia will be asked very little in Kosovo and Metohija in the future, whatever the status is called and however long it lasts. Therefore, let us not fool ourselves, however the formulation of the future status of Kosovo and Metohija will be, without us ensuring fundamental decentralisation and the return of property as a question of all issues, we will not have the opportunity to talk about victory, but about bitter and irreparable defeat. So we are getting away with a fundamental issue that is not called the status of Kosovo and Metohija, but the status of non-Albanians, above all Serbs, in all aspects and in the foreseeable future, which is something that is regulated by standards. I think we still have time to focus on that very question. The Prime Minister's frequent statements remind the story in the late 90s about preserving sovereignty and territorial integrity, with respect for human rights and legitimacy that can only be obtained by calling a referendum. The peak of political autism is that the fate of Kosovo and Metohija is in our hands. I wonder if anyone will have the strength to say the Emperor is naked. If we continue like this, we'll experience a victory like the one from 1999. I am fully aware that some can understand me as rooting for the opposite side or acting on the principle of spears in thorns. In no way do I dispute the fact that truth and justice are on our side. However, I can't even be blind to everything that's been going on since NATO aggression to this day and what has led to the current Internet of circumstances in which we're forced to save what can be saved. Should I remind you of some of the conclusions of the Contact Group? There's no going back to the state since before 1999, no division, no joining other countries. If these principles are not binding on us, then I withdraw everything I said about the need to tell the people the whole truth. It is known what the international community has done in the past to create conditions for the Albanian side to come to today's negotiating position. What did we do to stop it? The method is still empty. The largest number of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija still live on the verge of existence. Why is it not said once already that no single dinar has been given back since November 2003, or since the elections were called. The people of Cosmet know, but it's time for others to know, that except for eight million dinars, twenty houses in the White Field, there's not a single brick bought back. The methodology, where it wanted, without any conditions, to return more than 6,500 families, is still empty. Is that how he fights for people and territory or is the story of "the worse" that leads us to a brighter future. Do we even know what our ultimate goal is in these negotiations? I would simply like someone to tell us today, because of the fair play, because of the honesty of the citizens of Serbia, without the sleazy phrases, to explain to us what we are really going to do and what our steps are. How are we going to respond to the ten principles of the Contact Group, and all of this without deception and self-deception, if at all possible. Albanians do not hide their strategy. What kind of secret weapon do we have? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22212	Time. National MP Dragan Sutanovac has given up. The People's Messenger Dragutin Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zarko Korac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22213	Dear MPs, the bombing of Serbia, i.e. because of the failure to accept the ultimatum from Rambuje, followed. The SRJ, which took part in 19 NATO member states. Not in the same way, however, some indirectly, as members of the military alliance, and the aggression ended with the signing of the Military and Technical Agreement in Kumanov and the adoption of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council of the United Nations. Bringing the United Nations Security Council resolution is a halted aggression against the SRJ, and it is truly so understood in the people of Serbia that the war situation is behind us and that it represents the past, while for the people of Kosovo and Metohija, the NATO troops' entry was seen as the state of occupation, as the military presence, now allegedly a peace force, has been entrusted by the United Nations Security Council to the NATO military alliance, until yesterday's aggression. On the way in, so-called Peace forces in Kosovo and Metohija, i.e. NATO missions and its military components, KFOR and civilian UNMIK missions, are formed by the pogrom and exodus of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, first in the south and southwest parts of Kosovo and Metohija, as they are from these directions. Peacemakers entered the area of Kosovo and Metohija, but in parallel with NATO troops, Cypriot terrorists, organised through the terrorist organisation of the UCK, were literally terrorising the civilian Serb population. They destroyed their property by burning houses and usurping Serbian houses and apartments, all of which KFOR had been unwittingly observing and such actions approved. KFOR and UNMIK seem to have given consent to the Shiptars to take up municipal centres as soon as possible, i.e. cities, state institutions and institutions, as well as businesses, and from the same and expelled workers of Serbian nationality, very express and synchronised. As for Pristina, 40,000 Serbs were expelled from the city centre, while the other Serbs in the villages belonging to the Pristina municipality managed to survive if they were inhabited with Serbian life. In villages south of Pristina, around the village of Gracanica, which still survives as a Serb village, where a smaller number of Serbs have found their refuge, after being expelled from their cities and settlements. KFOR and UNMIK have been given a mandate by the United Nations Security Council to provide equal protection and security for all who live in Kosovo and Metohija, however, have proved that they only helped the Shiptars to ethnically clean up, to destroy their property or usurp, by creating reservations, only instead of using the term -- Serbian enclaves. That he's NATO, and now he's a military part of a peace mission. KFOR and UNMIK, wanted to carry out a peacekeeping mission under a mandate entrusted by the UN SB, could be given the authority of large forces, i.e. permanent members of the UN SB and due to the authority of the military force, directly present in Kosovo and Metohija, which numbers 50,000 soldiers. All UNMIK administration heads, from Kushner and beyond as their mandates changed, tried to challenge the remaining Serbs in Serb enclaves of any form of self-organization, start from guarding their settlements and property, their personal security, the safety of their families in those settlements, and organise their children's education in Serbian villages, and treatment in health homes, also in Serbian settlements. This process of kidnapping of school institutions and health institutions in urban areas has already been completed in the beginning of the peace mission, while in Serbian enclaves, the Serb people, with years of perseverance and self-organization, have barely managed to preserve these Serbian institutions in their midst, which also today also bothers KFOR and UNMIK, especially the Shiptars, because it reminds them of a fraction of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. Also, the local self-government organised by Serbs, although in the right sense there is no prerogative authority that can be exercised by local administrations, neither UNMIK, nor the Shiptars were ever willing, nor now. It should be noted that there were always individuals who in the Serbian enclaves co-operated in the most direct way with UNMIK and KFOR, past the interest of the Serb people, and that UNMIK as some kind of local Serb leader, and essentially self-called, imposed on Serbs, on them to make some concepts for the institutional organisation of Serbs. Rather, efforts have been made to allegedly integrate Serbs through some institutions that would not be Serbian. This process and UNMIK's insistence were so expressed in the first year of the peacekeeping mission, that in one period Serbs, apart from the forms of organisation through so-called. Serbia's National Assembly, which was then organised by influential SPS members from the Serb enclaves area, as opposed to the Serb national parliaments formed a Serbian national council. At first, KFOR and UNMIK recognise that Serbian national higher authentic representatives of Serbs, but ignore Serbian national parliaments as a relapse of the past and the rest of the like-minded Slobodan Milosevic. In essence, for KFOR and UNMIK none of the other forms of self-organisation represented any form of organisation in terms of recognition as an institution, which could not be prohibited by the adoption of a regulation by the Head of Civil Mission, i.e. Civil administrator. Apparently, UNMIK had this kind of division in the Serb self-organization process for reasons of disseminating and dividing the Serbian national corps, and the Serbian national council was prepared to vote for the so-called elections in 2000. changes reportedly brought by the DOS coalition, consisting of 18 parties and the G17 Plus expert group, which was the 19th member of the Doss coalition. Serbia's national council of Kosovo and Metohija, led by the bishop of Artemia, and the leaders at the moment were Momcilo Trajkovic, Rada Trajkovic, Dragan Relic, Rangel Nojkic and others, immediately before the elections, very much liked UNMIK's alleged leadership and political action, and mostly for the reasons that they presented their political assessments in the most reckless way to the work of the regime in Serbia and the contribution of the same to the overall situation in which Serbia and the Serbian people found themselves. They did not insist on lying to the Serbian military and police, noting the findings without arguments and evidence that they committed crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, and the peak of their deception in relation to the regime, which was already on the extremity and the end, were the words of these self-called Serb leaders, that the Serbian people should experience catharsis, i.e. to go through some kind of cleansing for the alleged crimes he committed. Dossus' machinery mocked all those who continued to think with their own mind, who caused the Serbian people to experience the fate of a disreputed and oppressed people, but blackmailed them through various aspects of humanitarian and other aid, since there was widespread poverty in the people in every way. All of Doss' party activists received instructions from the head of the Serbian National Council of Kosovo and Metohija in Gracanica. They have propagated the view that when the DOS and Vojislav Kostunica are elected president of the SRJ, the democratic West will begin to respect Serbia and the Serb people, as democracy will prevail in Serbia and that Resolution 1244 of the UN will literally begin in the spring to apply. Also, all the exiled Serbs will return to their hearths, to their jobs where they worked before they were expelled, and the property that was taken away from them will be returned, and if damaged, it will be justly compensated. Instead of the promised return of Serbs, Fljore Brovina, the Mazreku brothers and two thousand more terrorists took place by releasing from Serbian prisons, as if there were few Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija Ceku, Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj, Fatmir Ljamaj and others. Kostunica and his DOS have proved to deceive the people with great promises until the authorities took over, and afterwards they have made various excuses regarding Kosovo and Metohija, that time is necessary for any process of resolution of the crisis, because it is a matter of international factors that, when assessed, the crisis resolution process will begin. If it was justified for official authorities to retain status quo on Kosovo and Metohija, even if they should now do their best not to allow Serbs to be the only people in Europe who would voluntarily give up their territories. Gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, it is inadmissible that the President of Slovenia, Janez Drnovsek, in the territory of our country advocates the independence of Kosovo and Metohija without our government and diplomacy responding adequately as expected of a serious state. According to Slovenia, it is necessary to show a sharpness and tightened relations on both diplomatic and commercial terms, so that the presidents of other countries do not follow the example of Janez Drnovsek. Instead of apologizing for the murders of the naked and unarmed soldiers, who were killed in his Slovenia, Janez Drnovsek, has held back that after making statements about Kosovo and Metohija's independence, the Serbian monastery Gracanica visits. The wishes of Janez Drnovsek and others like him should be rejected, in order to stop Serbia's further tearing, demanding the respect of the 1913 London Peace Agreement, as well as the views of the Banditer Commission, the 1995 Paris Charter, finally seek full application of UN Security Council Resolution 1244.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22214	The People's Messenger Zarko Koraq has the word, and let the People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22215	Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable MPs, have already used big words here, historic session, important decisions. What we are talking about today is a mandate for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Let's look at what kind of mandate this resolution is essentially proposing. The motion for a resolution sets out the different principles of international law, as well as the decisions of the various United Nations authorities on Kosovo and Metohija. The only thing, unfortunately, in the motion for a resolution is the actual state of play in that space. What kind of sovereignty does Serbia have in Kosovo today? The most important thing is how it happened. If we were to open that question, we'd have to talk about two essential things that aren't mostly talked about here today. What policy has been directed towards Kosovo for the last twenty years? Who was the bearer of this policy? Let's remind ourselves, even though it's daft, of what these questions contain. The policy that inaugurated Slobodan Milosevic precisely in Kosovo in the 1980s was a policy of force, not dialogue and compromise. For a reason, in this motion for a resolution today, we are talking about compromise, dialogue and conversation. Unfortunately, with a huge historical delay. This policy had no single legitimate political partner among representatives of the Albanian community in Kosovo. With great contempt and arrogance at the time, the authorities in Serbia thought that the Kosovo problem could only be solved by force, regardless of the political reality that autonomy was abolished in Kosovo at the time and that none of the citizens of Kosovo of Albanian nationality accepted it. The real question back then was, is it possible to see Cosmet exclusively as a territory, regardless of the wishes of most citizens living there? This type of policy was apparently successful, while wars in the former Yugoslavia lasted. By ending these wars, it was logical to reopen the Kosovo problem. During that period, Albanians in Kosovo created their parallel institutions and in fact created a parallel state, with their own system of health and education education. In the minds of most Albanians, Milosevic's ignoring of Kosovo's difficult problems was responsible for their mass boycotting of Serbia's institutions. If there was a historic period when Serbian-Albanian relations were completely interrupted, then it is the period of Milosevic's authorities through history. Serbian-Albanian relations have indeed had their ups and downs, but it is a unique period in historical terms, when the two neighbouring nations have effectively interrupted any dialogue. The result is an increase in violence in Kosovo and war in 1999. The policy of the period was cynicalally abused by fears of the Serb population of Kosovo, putting them in a hostage position, which was first pushed into confrontation and war, and then abandoned by the Kumanski accord. Dear People's MPs, the reality of today's situation in Kosovo and Metohija has been determined by three things: a policy in the 1990s, a war in 1999 and a Kumanov agreement. The motion for a resolution does not mention it. Because of this period, the motion for a resolution is unrealistic. He tells us what he wants, but not what is the real situation in Kosovo. No mention is made of the majority Albanian population in Kosovo, which must reach a historic agreement, whether someone in this hall likes it or not. One of the reasons for not mentioning the policy of the previous period is the fact that support is expected in the Serbian Parliament for those who led it to the current situation in Kosovo. They are again amnesty, unfortunately, with a generous offer to participate in Kosovo's defence. Such unity is unnatural and will not bring good to Serbia. It's for fooling voters, avoiding responsibility. There isn't, then, honourable ambassadors, nothing historic. Historically, an actual analysis of the existing situation and the real proposals for its compromise solution would be. Unfortunately, there is no such thing in the proposed resolution. And if history is a teacher of life, then she teaches that myths and demagogues do not help in the long term, but only analysis and truth told to the citizens. That takes courage. In difficult historical moments, national interests are defended only by truth and nothing else. Dear People's MPs, you will likely agree in this room on the proposed resolution proposal, but life has long gone elsewhere when Kosovo and Metohija are concerned. Unfortunately, there are few in Serbia who are willing to say it publicly today. That is why today's debate in the Serbian Parliament is far from real. It is easy for all of us here to advocate Serbia's territorial integrity, to meet its constitutional assumptions. The real questions are when, and what is being avoided here, why is he lost in the previous period.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22216	According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Vucic, then Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22217	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I point to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting that this kind of speech came across applause in a parliamentary group that allegedly did not express such attitudes here and did not boast of independent Kosovo, but at one point swore to the Constitution, and at another point said that we could not according to Milosevic's Constitution. I don't know what their policy is, or anyone else knows. I went out for this pay phone to tell you that we are very restrained today, that we are patiently listening to these political vampires with 0.1% support, one by one coming out for the pay phone. And the fewer votes they have and the less people's support they have, the louder they are. All those who have below 0.1% today have drawn themselves, although they do not visit this National Assembly, except when they come for diaries and wages. They never go out for a pay phone, they came out today to salt our minds about how Kosovo is independent and that we have no chance of keeping it inside our Serbia. Let me tell you something, the fact that life has gone somewhere else, life and citizens of Serbia have long passed by your policies. Never again, unless someone like these may give you a mandate today, you will not see this congregation on a postcard. Nowhere and never, because the people and the citizens of Serbia will not. Something else would be good for citizens not to get the impression that they are very important Omerovic, Micic, Korac and others, all together with all Covic, Karic and others with 1% of the electoral body, and that if they jump with the stick, up to 1% to jump, and all those who tap them up, which is once for Milosevic's Constitution, and once against Milosevic's Constitution. Once it's written to them in the Constitution, the only one doesn't write to them in the Constitution, one constitution works for them, one doesn't work, one doesn't work for the other. You know why you're dangerous? That's what Jovan Ducic said, and this is all we had to say, not because you're not afraid of anything, but because you're not ashamed of anything. Serbian citizens want different politicians and different representatives, which is why it is at 0.1%.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22218	The People's Messenger Ivica Dacic has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22219	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Zarko Korać has brought forth a series of false things, or I'd be surprised if he even told some half-truth. In any case, what is said here cannot even be heard often in the circles of lobbyists working against Serbia and the Serb people. I don't know whose list he was on. If the Albanian political parties had participated in the elections, I assume he would have led the list. First, Kosovo and Metohija's autonomy has not been lifted. As you know, the amendments to the Constitution, which have been carried out completely legally, Serbia has restored its unity. Serbia was the only republic of the former SFRY that had, as I say, the right to veto two of its provinces. That is why it is not surprising to hear again in this assembly today that Serbia has abolished Kosovo's autonomy and that it was reportedly the reason Albanians went into demonstrations against Serbia. Mr. Korach, what happened in 1940 and some, what happened in 1968, what happened in 1981? The SPS wasn't in power back then. Albanians had a province that had the right to veto, according to constitutional changes, compared to the rest of Serbia. The absolute truth is that Serbia was going through the politics of force. What happens and what right does Serbia have in relation to a part of its territory, in relation to your political mentors and some countries in the West, who have the right to intervene in tens and hundreds of thousands of miles away from their territory, when their interests are allegedly threatened? It is impossible to justify the right of America to attack Iraq or Afghanistan, and to challenge Serbia's right to defend its territory from terrorists and extremists, or those who want to secede part of their territory. It is certain that there should be exceptions in Serbia. I'm not sure the exceptions are always the way they are. If it's an exception, then why is it an honorable exception? I think that, in any case, no Serbian citizen, no member of the Serbian people has the right to play with a piece of their territory, a piece of their history and a part of their future. You may be right on your own behalf, but you have no right on behalf of those seven million that were just spoken of. The people did not vote for any of us to break Serbia, the people voted for us so that we would all try to defend Serbia together. How much more do you share Serbia with those who are for this or that political option? How much more so do you share Serbia with those who used to be in power or those who were in power a little more recently or a little earlier? All of us here together got a mandate from the people to defend this kind of Serbia as it is. You were the vice president of the former government, the government that ruled Serbia from 2000 to 2003. We're all responsible for our actions together. We can differ and we can hate each other, we certainly don't feel the same way, but as Berjaev said to those who did something similar on the Russian political scene: "If you hate power, don't hate Russia's mother." If you hate some who were in power or are in power, don't hate Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22220	Mr. Vucelic, according to the Rules of Procedure, then Mr. Korac, the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22221	Article 104, violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. In the selective memory that MP Korac said here, there are systems. He has the right to remember this or that, but in what he said he has a system. What did he forget? He also forgot about agreements, peaceful solutions, Rugova's agreement with Palje, an agreement on education, offers for a peaceful solution, a constitutional solution to autonomy, which they call for, the hour does not call for. Of course, it's clear to me why they don't call on the Constitution and why they mud and spit on it. Because they were anti-constitutional and elected by the President of the Republic, because under the Constitution he could not be elected President of the Republic. What has he forgotten and what has been systematically forgotten by Ambassador Korac? He forgot the ethnic cleansing of 250,000 Serbs. He forgot terrorism and UCK. He forgot the white al-Qaeda, which is now a widely known thing in all foreign lists, magazines and agencies. He forgot about trade in white slaves, drugs and everything in Kosovo. He forgot 17,000 rejected claims by Serbs for the return of property in Kosovo and Metohija, which was done, by God, because of the court's busyness. He forgot March 17th. He has forgotten all those missing and murdered who are wanted and today, who are wanted by their relatives. He forgot all that at all. And the motives, and the reasons and consequences of this kind of thinking, are true. It is not good for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to overlook and forget everything it says and about the suffering, about the injustice and genocide that was done, for example, I mentioned over the Roma. At least, if he didn't grieve for the Serbs and if his troubles were dear to him, he could have at least 230,000 and something of Roma, who were exiled and crushed there, to mention that "fighter" to large human rights. So I had to react to this, although I know it's not good and although I'm also inclined to be extremely mild and tolerant, because of the meaning and tasks this congregation has. But, of course, these things can't be kept quiet. These are marginal groups, these are non-existent MPs, who went on quite other lists of parties they're now talking about, that's all true, but we have to, the truth for the sake of and dignity to say this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22222	Replica, MP Zarko Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22223	Dear Members of the People, I would not speak again. Those who recognized themselves in what I was saying, then it was good, they understood what I was talking about. I would say something that is mentioned here, and yet something bigger than demagogue and abuse of a pay phone to promote its own political views, which is unfortunately legitimate in every parliamentary democracy. That's the story of patriotism and love for your country. He defends his country only by defending the truth and saying what he believes, and everything else is your interpretation of what patriotism is and what is patriotism. When you mention that big word so easily, be assured that some more courage is needed to say something different than most think at this point, than what is happening now - that a large number of people themselves are having a dilemma about this large and difficult issue, which is left behind in the legacy – even this government, which I am critical of, that one-brain should cover the fact that a tragic situation has been found, which is the result of a completely wrong policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22224	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22225	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I would suggest that the chairman take a break, because it is a shame that in this way some advertise their parties and behave in this way, inappropriately at such an important moment for Serbia. We need to take a break, consult the heads of the parliamentary groups and approach the vote, of course, in a certain way, because this is a serious moment and we need to support this resolution and act like real patriots. I resent the president of the assembly and the Prime Minister for not designing a little better the course of this session, so there would be no such mockery and insult to the dignity of the Assembly and individuals as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22226	The word has the People's MP Ivica Dacic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22227	I don't want to repeat the political attitudes I've just expressed. I am convinced, of course, that political unity is necessary on this topic for Serbia. I am also convinced that some political parties and some individuals have listened to those who opposed the appointment of this assembly, and when the assembly is already scheduled to show that there is no political unity in Serbia. I want to tell everyone that no matter how many there are, the vast majority of Serbia and the Serb people are unique -- Kosovo must remain within Serbia. On the other hand, I would ask the chairman to suggest that we introduce here that some MPs may speak in some other languages, in their native languages. Certainly, Mr. Korac would find it easier to understand if he spoke Albanian here.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22228	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22229	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that there may be no confusion, since it may not be well interpreted what I was saying, although I am convinced that it is more than quite clear. When it comes to constitutional jurisdiction, they are fully crystal clear and it is clear who is responsible for what in the Republic of Serbia, how elections are being held for this assembly, as elected by the President of the Republic. That's what citizens who look at us here know, and that's what MPs and chiefs of Parliament clubs know. Once again, it is not possible to find a compromise solution whereby Kosovo and Metohija will be composed of the Republic of Serbia and Serbia-Montenegro, and that solution will be within the constitutional order of which it is. That's what I've been talking about, and I need to stress it one more time. In the end, I appeal once again to take every discussion here as a well-intentioned, civil security. This is the Assembly, where it is the supreme freedom for everyone to say what they have, and I treat with all due respect everything that is said except for the insults that are never the place in this congregation, and especially today when we talk about this difficult thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22230	The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22231	I won't take too much of your time, I wouldn't even answer, although several speakers from the Democratic Party misquoted the Constitution, knowingly most likely. Let's get this straight -- if a solution to some autonomy is not based on the Constitution of Serbia, then tell Boris Tadic that even the solution to entities is not based on the Constitution of Serbia. If you think the National Assembly must not accept a solution on Kosovo and Metohija's autonomy, then it must not be possible for Boris Tadic to talk in the world about solutions that talk about the entity in Kosovo and Metohija. Another thing, Boris Tadic cannot discuss the fate of Kosovo and Metohija. The Constitution does not give him that authority. He has the right to talk to other countries and other organisations, but the government is leading Serbia's policy. Why did we accept that the government here took responsibility under the resolution of the National Assembly? Because the government is leading Serbia's policy, not Serbia's president. The government is in charge of Serbia's politics. The basic question you're trying to confuse the public is the referendum question. Tell that President of the Constitutional Court – to ask the right lawyers he could not be the President of the Constitutional Court. It is not only a change in the border of a referendum issue under the Constitution of Serbia. The National Assembly has the right to call a referendum on any matter of its jurisdiction in the Constitution to declare the matter. Let's finally get this straight. The referendum in the resolution is not foreseen because any of us accepts the fact that a change in the border will take place, because we have already rejected it in the previous part of the resolution, which says that the Assembly will not discuss a proposal that would touch Serbia's integrity at all. We don't think of it as a referendum, but if there are solutions that you and we think may not fit into the constitutional order, and they are good for Serbia and we want to accept them, we will go to the referendum.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22232	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Milan Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22233	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on June 3, 1999, when he spoke from the assembly speaker on behalf of Serbian Radicals and as Deputy Prime Minister Dr Vojislav Seselj told the MPs and the entire Serbian public that we Serbian radicals were ready to admit that we had made a mistake and to stop dealing with politics if it stands, and what was then adopted by the Assembly and which was the only one against which was the Serbian Radical Party – the framework and principles for the Chernomidin-Ahtisari peace agreement, exactly and enforceable. Unfortunately, it turns out that we Serbian radicals were right. What you then have in the campaign for next year's election, supported by Americans and the West, financially and logistically above all, celebrated as a major solution today is something with tragic and unimaginable consequences for the Serbian people in the southern Serbian province. Since 1996, various modes have been broken and more difficult to address the issue of Kosovo and Metohija, in fact, dating back to the late 1980s, but in 1996, if I am not mistaken then, says academic Despic, a group of academics around him; it appears with some plan by Dobrica Ćosic, that in 2001, ahead of the unanimous adoption of the resolution on the situation of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, with the division of Kosovo and Metohija, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic also declared himself. It was within the meaning of the so-called. Discussions in the public of various other solutions: to return to the 1974 Constitution, to make Kosovo a republic, to gain independence, until today's speakers who go to the hands of the Shiparian separatists and the Americans who support them, to the latest yesterday's, as he called them, entity maps of Neboja Covic. However, I must now make one observation to you, Mr. Kostunica, to say that the man until two or three months ago, until Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić came to the post of head of the co-ordination board, all the time he was in the place of that body that was meant to care for fate, to help Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Before it came out, synchronised with Karic and with the Democratic Party, with these entity cards, he made it clear here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that Serbs cannot have a deed over cities, churches and monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija, that all of this should be thrown into a cloudy Danube – I am now paraphrasing and sickening at all that I must say these words of moral, in any case political inferior, freaks and people who never thought well of the Serbian people. I have two declarations and a resolution before me, which were unanimously adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia during the DOS period, when Serbia experienced a national sunflower and when it experienced that, at the time of the adoption of one resolution in August of the month, which was so soft and none, which only identified the situation in which our people are located, and today it is even worse in place, then the prime minister from the DS Zoran Zivkovic has confused two cities in Kosovo and Metohija and says – there is no one living Serb in Strpec; he has mixed Štimlje and Strpce. These were the representatives of the government, those who boasted that they had allies in the American Congress and the West, and how they, for God's sake, were willing to solve all these issues. That in 1999, the unfeeling NATO aggression, which lasted 78 days, on our country and on our people, was actually something else, rather than allegedly saving from humanitarian disaster and their concern for the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija, has proved to be much later. The epilogue is known to all of us: in the past 15 days, when the agreement was signed, by Vuk Draskovic, on the smooth passage of NATO forces, because in the disappearance of bipolarism, in the disappearance of balance on the global-political scene, above all, the Western military alliance, it was clear to all, to all the responsible people and statesmen who see it in such a way, and represent that righteous part of humanity, that their intention was to expand further and further eastwardly, and that it was in fact the purpose, and that the Cypriot terrorists, separatists and their desire for independence, were only one additional instrument in their hands. Today's situation in which the Serb people are in our southern province – 6,535 terrorist actions, perhaps a few dozen more, I apologize if this number is not a tragic balance, 1,200 people killed, 1,238 wounded, 1,146 missing, kidnapped, carried out over 5,000 terrorist acts with the help of so-called. The Kosovo Protection Corps and UNMIK as the brains of terrorists, or separatists from the ranks of the Cypriot gangs. All this the previous government has watched silently, making such a mild resolution. Speaking of the position of the Constitutional Court and of what he can and cannot do and when this unfortunate Slobodan Vučetić is advertised, I must warn all of you who have been in charge of this or that function, that we have directed you three years at what you should do when there is already a resolution 1244 and this agreement and the Kumanian Agreement, and you have not done so. We've been telling you nicely that every decision by the Shiptarian leadership, the Separatist, and especially after the adoption of the so-called. Hekerup's constitutional frameworks and bringing statesmen from the queen, the Republic of Serbia to foreigners, the introduction of customs, taxis and excise duties, must be very loud and unanimous, and we would give you help, to condemn and to continue the Constitutional Court of Serbia, with such estimates that the Shipari in Kosovo and Metohija, who, after the adoption of the Hekerup constitutional frameworks, have both received their parliament and their president and alleged autonomy in the area of local self-government, behave contrary to the Constitution and the law, deliberately violating that part, which guarantees us Resolution 1244, territorial integrity, or sovereignty. She's been misquoted, and it's still today. That was said by Mr. Vukic, when the annexes of the agreement and parts of the Resolution conveyed how it was, through a quote; therefore, we insisted on it and it was supposed to be such a synchronised action to return thousands of soldiers and police officers, to establish customs checkpoints and to do everything possible to protect the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. It's not done. Nothing's been done. Today we have a resolution, under which we will resolutely declare ourselves to those who are in opposition, who always, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, put it above all interests, because the key to all questions for us were Republika Srpska, Republika Srpska, Kosovo and Metohija, the unity of the people and the state. That's how we've been acting when we've been in power for a short time and since we've been the opposition. The legal force and the legal treatment of this resolution must be binding on everyone. You know, the fact that Boris Tadic as president of the Republic, chosen with your help, you from the DSS, is not wearing, which my Sumadinians would say "every day in the same mind", that's his problem. But today's decision here and what the assembly is going to adopt by a large majority must be binding on everything. It is our obligation to Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija, who are completely unprotected and who have suffered badly, not only on the nights between 17 and 19 March 2004, but it continues today. I can't get rid of myself while I'm watching you and I'm saying this, the impression and eyes of the children who sent us from Prilužje and Plemetina, when, as a delegation of the party, headed with Mr. Alexander Vukic, we went from the monastery of Banjska, in which, thank God, after centuries, our brotherhood went back to so-called. Enclaves, occupied villages of Prilužje and Plemetina. We visited the elementary schools of "Wolf Karadzic" and "Holy Sava". These children, the directors of these schools and these teachers, the citizens of these villages asked us at that time, which was in May of the month, to meet as soon as possible, to make a unique decision that would improve and affect ensuring survival and guarantee our people's freedom in Kosovo and Metohija. These kids, those boys and those girls, they sent us with the grip of their little hands and asked us to do it. We promised them that. Today with many months of delay, together with you, we are in the highest congregation home to adopt such a resolution. We warn you, as we warned you when you were not able to believe and speak. The Udbins are far away, Knin is far away; you did not want to think about the people's suffering in Republika Srpska. There are close Raška, Kraljevo, Kragujevac and Belgrade, keep that in mind and keep in mind the survival of our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22234	National MP Milan Markovic gave up the discussion. The People's Messenger, Milorad Buha, has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22235	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Kosovo politicians have come up with their strategy to regulate Kosovo's and Metohija's status in the 1990s on the principle of "two to", which means in the concept – as much autonomy as Serbs in Republika Srpska, so many Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. They believed that Serbs, who were sovereign, constitutional, state-of-the-art and equal people with the Croatian people, would get a high level of autonomy by ending war conflicts, the highest level of respect for human rights, and such a high level of autonomy would correspond to the position of the Albanian people in Kosovo and Metohija, who represented the national minority. In the former Republic of Croatia, until constitutional changes in 1990, Serbs were leveled in rights with the Croatian people, and they based their equality and statehood on the foundations of anti-fascist struggles. Constitutional changes have unilaterally deprived the Serbian people of statehood and the right to use language and letters equally. Constitutional changes have created legal-political assumptions for the persecution of Serbian living, layoffs from work, exiles, all human rights and freedoms have been denied, mobile and immovable property taken away, other status, property and social rights. On the other hand, Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, as a national minority, are today fighting for an independent state and a complete separation from Serbia. It is the same concept of independence used by Croats and Albanians, and it is basically a genocide and ethnic cleansing of the Serb people. The international community and world powers allowed or quietly agreed to ban over 500,000 Serbs from Republika Srpska by genocide and ethnic cleansing, representing about 80% of the Serb ethnic population in Croatia. The rest of the Serbs were kicked out of work, scrawny, and often were murders, arson and so forth. There are no reactions from the international community. The consequences of genocide and ethnic cleansing are as follows: more than 7,000 Serbs were killed, and about 15,000 were wounded, burned and destroyed about 1,100 villages and villages where Serbs were majority. In actions "Blash" and "Storm" were burned, stolen and devastated over 35,000 houses, apartments, business and business facilities. Unlawful court proceedings have deprived the tenant of 50,000 Serb-owned apartments. The right of Serbs to action in the privatisation process of state and social property has been denied. They've been denied other status, property and social rights. The total value of material goods is estimated at around 30 billion euros, while the lost profit of that asset is about 20 billion, totaling over 50 billion euros. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the Serbian side's relationship to the international community? Republika Srpska's leadership accepted and signed more resolutions and agreements between 1992 and 1995. The UN Security Council adopted Resolution 743, known as the Vens-Oven plan, which put Republika Srpska Krajina under UN protection. Peace forces were sent as a guarantee of peace and security among the warring parties. Believing the international community's good intentions, the Serbian side accepted a ceasefire agreement during 1994, and the economic agreement during 1995. These activities have created assumptions for the opening of a political negotiation process on Republika Srpska's status. World powers have unilaterally asked Serbs to accept the Z4 plan, which in itself prejudges the political solution, while Serbia's autonomy narrows down to only two wheels, making up about two-fifths of Republika Srpska's territory. The rest of Republika Srpska's territory is included in the Republic of Croatia through peaceful reintegration. The Serbian leadership initially rejected the plan, but was later accepted by Milan Babic, then prime minister of Republika Srpska's government, and on 2 August 1995, with the intervention of the group's contact, was signed, with a promise that Croatia would not attack Republika Srpska's Krajina. Regardless of the promised promise by the world's largest forces, Croatia has been launching its police and military forces, which have committed the greatest genocide and ethnic cleansing since World War II. The UN forces, instead of preventing the Croatian forces from breaking up and separating the warring forces, did nothing. What was the international community's reaction to genocide and ethnic cleansing? Not at all. The Serbian leadership of Republika Srpska has accepted and signed numerous agreements, believing that a co-operational relationship to the international community will successfully end the war and resolve the future constitutional and legal status of Republika Srpska. For good co-operation and co-operation, the Serbian side is "rewarded" by genocide and ethnic cleansing. A serious question arises whether it can be trusted by world powers and the international community, and it is visible that it cannot be trusted. Based on the landscape experience 10 years ago, we need to enter these political negotiations with caution, because it would be wrong and easy to believe the good intentions of all the negotiating teams. A huge experience gives us the Dayton Agreement, which regulated the future constitutional, political and economic position of BiH. Two equal entities today lose their constitutional and real role, to the detriment of the Serb entity. The unilateral acts of international intermediaries melt Republika Srpska's competences and aim to unitarise BiH's state functions. We must ask ourselves whether we can blindly believe in the good intentions of the international community and its representatives. A similar or almost identical situation exists with Resolution 1244 in Kosovo and Metohija. The international community has done nothing to prevent ethnic cleansing, burning of Serbian churches and monasteries, banishment, murder and similar crimes. Again, I ask the question -- can we trust international intermediaries not to play the signed and certified state of future constitutional and legal status of Kosovo and Metohija? The sufferings of the Serbian people are enormous. Tragic fate, sorrow, pain, lack of substance requires caution, seriousness, and political maturity. Only through the unity of all parties can there be a real platform and a strategic plan for negotiations. Any partying, political egoism, inconsistencies can be devastating. In 1996, an agreement on normalisation of relations was signed between the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia, and in 2001 all former SFRJ members concluded a succession agreement. Both agreements gave a legal opportunity to avoid the population so that they could return safely and unconditionally to their properties, return ownership of their property, return the right to apartments and the possibility of buying apartments. The refugee population was given the possibility of a fair compensation for all the looted, destroyed and burned assets. In the past ten years, there has been no real return of the evasive population, as only about 5% of the exiles have returned. No apartment in Croatia has been returned to former householders, no one is talking about a fair fee. In practice, a number of judicial administrative procedures are conducted, but there is no movement. The returnees are being arrested, making new lists of war criminals, regardless of their amnesty. There is persecution, layoff from work and the rest of Serbia's lives. In front of the administrative authorities, Serbs are scrambling and humiliating. No one cares about the Serbs of the Krajis. All of these problems, as well as the lack of understanding of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia and international institutions, have caused the renewal of the work of the Republika Srpska Krajina Assembly in exile, which has chosen the government of Republika Srpska in exile, whose task is to internationalise landscape problems, the launch of the return process of property, apartments and other status, property and social rights. The government of Republika Srpska in exile adopted the Declaration on the position of the exiled Serb population and asked the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put it on the agenda to open the debate on all issues, gave the government's orders in the direction of finding positive solutions. I urge the President of the Assembly to schedule a thematic session on these issues after an urgent procedure. We delivered a similar declaration to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The formal procedure for the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is ending, so it can be expected to be included in the agenda of the 2006 session. It would be appropriate for these issues to be discussed at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in this assembly. We spoke to the government of the Republic of Serbia several times. We didn't get the answer, but the problems remain unresolved. The passiveness of this government wonders that we have not found a conversation among our own, and we have addressed foreign missions operating in the Republic of Serbia. We attended the talks on a permanent European Union mission on two occasions and a permanent mission of the UN organisation. In these conversations we also pointed to our problems and requested mediation. In order to internationalise our issues, we have opened three representative offices in the world, in Canada, France and the Netherlands. These days, we will become full members of the UN, an agency representing exiled peoples. Finally, I call on all relevant state institutions of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia to help the refugee population from Republika Srpska, Croatia, Kosovo and Metohija, while intervening the international institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22236	The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of the People be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22237	As I hope that this economic-propagand programme of those who want to make it known that they are done in something different, I can only let the viewers and citizens of Serbia know that this proposed resolution, regardless of which it cannot be criticised, and I will do so a little later, is merely a continuity where since 1999, the National Assembly has always declared that it supports territorial integrity and sovereignty, and those who have criticised themselves while they were in power, but well, it is vanity. Covic is angry that you forced him out, it's a good thing you pushed him out, he was talking about war dogs at first, and then he took over the speech and the terminology of those he criticized. To leave out this selective application of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia when it suits, to get us back to something that suits everyone, it's imposed as a force, but you'll see, it does. It's Resolution 1244. It unequivocally confirms, guarantees the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, regardless of what happened in the meantime and points to facilitating the political process of defining the final status for Kosovo and Metohija. So Kosovo and Metohija are neither treated as an institution, nor as an organ, nor as some exterior territory of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about broad autonomy, to be understood by these yellowish ones, that means capacity, because they understand it, and when it comes to fundamental self-government, that's where we can talk about whether local self-government is going to be two degrees, what's going to be of jurisdiction in local self-government. To criticize you now – in that previous resolution, I was under the impression that you acted here as something that looked like autonomy for Serbs within Kosovo and Metohija. It's good to have you back. It's a good thing the UN even noticed it was a single mistake. Because we have to go back to something that you don't read books don't know, and smart people wrote it all down. So do we need autonomy? If we've been admitted to the Council of Europe, we've been admitted while these are "saber-whipped." If it is recognised that we are a democratic society, and we are, we have always been a democratic society, so any criteria to take, the question arises, because this democratic society essentially has a civil order, rights are guaranteed – which, then, would require autonomy for people, greater than what is recognised? Furthermore, what would be beyond autonomy if territorial sovereignty were given to the queen? It could just be autonomy, no more Vukovar autonomy, less than independence. So we're in the field of essential autonomy, and it's a good thing you guys didn't define those deeper frames here, as well... It's snowing, but they came out with clues, the way they see it, so we had a chance here to hear it. So we heard the President of the Republic, whose choice it is that you who are in power, because now you realize that you have made a catastrophic mistake, because he knows nothing. He recognises the right of national minorities to self-determination. I don't know what Leon Cohen reads there, what these counselors of his read; you should take the stick and drive them away. See what one statement can do. The second is his statement – entity and the topic of autonomy. A man's confused subjects are completely and then it's no wonder, because inside the DS there's a faction fight going on. We have Žarkova and Natasha, they're on the remote control of Agim Ceku and these here, and a few months ago, that's a month ago, a pure drug party was formed, they're funded. We also have that group that says – the European region, and they're from that kitchen, you know. So those who propose -- Kosovo and Metohija European region, those who propose -- Kosovo and Metohija and Belgrade together in the EU, and they are financed by the drug mafia from the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. What bothers me in your motion for a resolution? You know what, you've written in a few places here -- the interests of Albanians. I draw your attention, Resolution 1244 mentions Kosovo Albanians in two places, in a negative context, therefore, as members of the KLA and as residents of Kosovo and Metohija to be disarmed, both times in a negative context. Don't fix the context for them. The world knows, because it knows what they installed there, as well as when it leaked information here that there are five from Al-Qaeda, that they've been guarded, there's been an alarm; of course, the Americans are watching them, all of them know, and don't give any meaning to a Security Council that really doesn't belong to it, and you've given that importance to the Security Council in a few points. Don't go with that great trust to the UN. You heard from the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, because these others are not allowed to talk about it, and I would remind you: the moment the former SFRY began to co-operate with the international community on SFRY asymmetrical, symmetric, etc., and it started when they got to Brion, remember, our country was devastated. In just four months, the United States has changed its position, from the initial view that there is no tearing, to the notion that any republic can be a new state. I remind you of the market in Sarajevo, Tuzla and not to order all the locations, because it comes from a great lie to achieve some of its interests, and later the truth becomes known, but there is no justice. There's no justice. There's still a problem with this resolution that's been offered. I understand you've had a hard time putting her together, because you see the horns in the bag yourself; you and the president can't agree on cohabitation, let alone these things. The second is: wherever you used some of the words they associate, you should have listed -- AP Kosovo and Metohija, and here you are in several places -- Serbs from the province and Albanians from Kosovo. You're making a mistake. I'm counting on your actions as members of the government to remove these shortcomings here. In the end, I have to warn you what's next. So here comes this international group, led by no one else but the one appointed by the secretary general to conduct these talks. I don't open up a topic that needs to be talked to. The formal-legal Republic of Serbia is authorized to prescribe autonomy for Kosovo and Metohija itself, autonomy for Vojvodina, but after all these things it probably takes some discussion. With who? With whoever took us and who restricted our right to the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but not with terrorists. The good thing about this proposed resolution is that you do not recognise temporary institutions, and you should not admit them, but you have seen them, recognised by Boris Tadic, because he urged citizens to vote and those 800 citizens gave some quasi-legitimity. I would further draw your attention to the International Crisis Group, make sure when you negotiate, there's Marty Ahtisaari, Louise Arbur, Zbigev Bžinski, Wesley Clark, there's Goran Svilanovic, just now gone, keep an eye on him, because he's a civil servant here, but a member of one organization, Torvald Stoltenberg, then Javlinski from Russia, and there's this Russian who's holding YUKOS, who's arrested, and in the end, remember, George Soros. Now you understand what their principles are – not back to the state before 1999. And we say no. Why? Because terrorism was then on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Furthermore, Kosovo and Metohija have no right to unite with Albania. I don't know what kind of idiot could have thought they had the right to unite with Albania. If that were to happen, then the international order wouldn't exist, there's no Charter, there's no UN, there's no Charter for New Europe, there's no Helsinki document, there's nothing. If they are so strong, they could take Kosovo and Metohija from June 10th to today. No, they need consent. Keep an eye on who's gonna give that consent. That's why we're looking for one resolution, and we're representatives and a stricter resolution, which will undermine the powers, rights and obligations of the one who negotiates, and that's why we've put some tough attitudes here, anchors that can't go through: territorial integrity, sovereignty, and we're looking for a fundamental administration and broad autonomy for all citizens, we're not going to share the citizens. This resolution 1244 does not divide citizens, but when it talks about the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, the population and sometimes says - national communities. Take care, because I must tell you, unfortunately, in this country it takes courage for someone to be a patriot, so he can openly say he wants to protect his country. Believe me, any lunatic can be a traitor and be applauded so much by those from abroad, aware that these are the lunatics. I'd like to remind you of just one last thing: the one who's ready to shut up, he's ready to repeat. They're gone, and they'll do it again. Take care, if you defend the interests of Serbia, of all citizens of Serbia, if you defend Kosovo and Metohija, you have the support of the Serbian Radical Party, and if you go deaf about it, I don't know what's wrong with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22238	The word has a People's MP, Verica Radeta, and let the MP Ljubomir Kragovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22239	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, what happened three or four days ago in the so-called Kosovo's parliament has more evidence that you should have listened to Tomislav Nikolic recently and that this parliament is dealing with only problems dedicated to Kosovo and Metohija at an extraordinary session. I remind you this to remind you that at least today you may listen to the appeals of the Serbian Radical Party and Tomislav Nikolic to change the motion for a resolution in the context of these events from Pristina, as well as these traitors who are being heard today in this House, probably to the surprise of all Serbian citizens. The motion for a resolution should really change in a few details, starting with the name itself, because it is not good to say that the future status of Kosovo and Metohija is being discussed, because Kosovo and Metohija status is clear. The resolution could talk about achieving autonomy, not about Kosovo and Metohija's status. It should also be more firm and determined to underline that there is no and there should be no separation between Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia's composition. What is foreseen in point 3, where it is said that any imposed solution to the future status of Kosovo and Metohija would be declared illegal, illegal and invalid, gentlemen, is legally incorrect, and it is too mild. It had to be here that this would be legally nothing, because of the consequences that would eventually be caused by a job like this. In point 5, qualifications are also too mild and are somehow hinted at in this third and fourth position as if they were talking about Serbs who are in the status of national minorities in Kosovo and Metohija. It must not even be in the hint of being found, because Serbs are the majority in Serbia, and Kosovo and Metohija is Serbia. It cannot be spoken, nor suggests that Serbs could possibly be a national minority and that they should be given special rights in Kosovo and Metohija. Serbs must be allowed back to live on their centuries-old hearths, on their Kosovo and Metohija, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Also, it is not good that you stated at point 6 that, as a democratically organised state, a member of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Serbia has a great responsibility for peace and good neighbourly co-operation in its environment. Ladies and gentlemen, what is Serbia's responsibility for peace in the Balkans? I guess responsibility should be taken over by those leading to problems in Kosovo and Metohija. Why aren't terrorists mentioned, why isn't the UCK mentioned? I guess it was those who led to unrest in the Balkans, not Serbia. Serbia has never waged a war in Kosovo and Metohija to exterminate, to ethnically clean Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, others have done so, and parts of Kosovo and Metohija today are ethnically clean, but ethnically pure from Serbs. That's what you should have done here in a stronger way to emphasize yourself. Point 7 says the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia welcomes the intermediate role of the United Nations in the process of defining future status, etc. This is not good at all, and we have nothing to say to the UN, or to the mediating role of the UN. We, ladies and gentlemen, will remind you, we have very bad and unpleasant experiences from these and such intermediation missions of the UN. We must not and should not hide the anti-Serbian politics of the whole West. We have examples of Republika Srpska, we have an example of Republika Srpska, we have, after all, Resolution 1244. If Resolution 1244 were to apply, we today would not have the problem we have, and today we would not have the need to talk about Kosovo and Metohija in this way. So, the UN, the UN Security Council, does not respect that resolution, either, which they themselves have brought. Serbia's Krajina, you all know that they sacrificed, that the Republika Srpska Krajina, with all the attributes of statehood, is under the occupation of the Croatian Ustasha state. The Croatian Ustasha state is on its way to the EU. Unfortunately, neither here in Serbia nor in this parliament is the Republic of Serbia. On the contrary, simply most of it here... After all, you showed your relationship with Republika Srpska when the government was formed in the exile of Republika Srpska. Republika Srpska was formed by the Dayton Peace Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, ten years after that Dayton Agreement, what's going on in Republika Srpska? Efforts to destroy Republika Srpska. These ten years of so-called peace in Republika Srpska have been ten years of occupation, the most difficult occupation. Ask the people who live there, ask the Serbs in Republika Srpska how they lived under Ashdown and those who were before him. They prescribed who could deal with politics in Republika Srpska; they set up professors, rectors and deans; they say Professor Radomir Lukic cannot do his job. Where are the UN Security Council guarantees? We must say that Serbs from Republika Srpska hate Bosnia and Herzegovina. They fought Bosnia and Herzegovina, died in that war, lost their homes, lost their families, permanently disabled, and what happens now? Now they make them live, again they say Serbs can live in the multiethnic Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have no right when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. They will not say that the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija can live together in the Republic of Serbia, with Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, a month ago there was an action by UNMIK and KFOR in the village of Prekaza, they had to go there with tanks and helicopters. This is what must be asked of the international community, primarily the disarmament of all formations, except international ones, which are sufficient to carry weapons in Kosovo and Metohija. Since I am celebrating today the baptism of glory, I would like to congratulate all the Orthodox believers, to those who glorify the Holy Archangel: May there be happy glory for you, and may God help us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22240	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22241	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important for the government to use this much support it has in parliament, and therefore with the support of the Serbian Radical Party it uses great support from Serbian citizens, because the Serbian Radical Party enjoys such a reputation among Serbian citizens. We hope that those negotiating, and particularly representatives of the government, will not at any time give in to pressure from the international community. Why? Not because it would be a precedent when it comes to international law and international relations, but primarily from the priorities of our interest, which would be the beginning of the end of Serbia. The very fact that the possible independence of Kosovo and Metohija would be questionable or, better said, the real question would be whether there is any need to continue to deal with politics at all, be it always on your mind and in the first place, because the disappearance of Kosovo and Metohija from the territory of Serbia literally begins the end or beginning of the end of Serbia. Especially we who live in Vojvodina with great care are watching what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija and what is going to happen, for the simple reason that we are participants and witnesses, as you are, that preparations are being made intensively in Vojvodina to apply this model, this principle or these standards that the international community wants to apply in Kosovo and Metohija at some point. You can see the script is almost exactly the same. What is the international community famous for? It is known for its consistency in inconsistency. Why? All that has been defined by Resolution 1244, the international community, as the United Nations, wants to avoid. Instead of discussing what is a priority, which are standards, it discusses a status issue. Let's just remember how it all started. It began with a question of human rights and the rights of national minorities. What's in Vojvodina? That's right now current. As the scenario took place in Kosovo, so did Vojvodina. In Kosovo and Metohija, the most important issue is the state of human rights and national minorities, the most strong status issue, not national minorities but territories. What's in Vojvodina? In Vojvodina, the status issue of national minorities is being raised. The next step that is to take place in Kosovo and Metohija is to prepare the terrain under Kosovo and Metohija's status issue so that tomorrow in Vojvodina, a part of the truth works, Vojvodina, will separate. Why? Because already some speakers in Vojvodina are calling on Ahtisaari to come, to take advantage of the opportunity and the moment when the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija are being negotiated, so that one part of Vojvodina, as they say, is detached -- the higher or higher degree of autonomy. It's the same advocacy or the same theory they had and what the Cypriots in Kosovo and Metohija advocated; they said – a higher degree of autonomy. When we warned the international community that this was in fact a transitional state towards secession and the creation of an independent state, many were at the time opposers of Serbia's political scene, saying -- you Serbian radicals only suspect what is bad for Serbia, you intend to bring unrest among Serbian citizens. No, we, as we are now, are interested in warning in time what is going on in Serbia. In Serbia, it is being prepared to move towards the secession of Vojvodina, in the manner and model of Kosovo and Metohija. Who's going to give the most support in that? Not only the international community or the United Nations, but also the incompetent negotiators. We are witnessing here that two executive institutions have different views. These differing views stem, first of all, from their sick political ambitions, from the fact that it is party to them, not Serbia's interest. We already share Kosovo and Metohija on two entities. So how are we going to defend and how are we going to stay in positions where there is no division of Serbia, if we share Kosovo and Metohija? Isn't that the rule of sharing Serbia? If we divide it into a Serbian and Albanian entity, you from the international community will say – gentlemen, why not divide Serbia into Kosovo and Metohija and Serbia? It is something that, in any case, at the very beginning warns and points to the Serbian public to be very careful to follow how and how they will act and how the negotiations will be conducted by those who are owned by the Assembly. We Serbian radicals advance to say what would not be good. It would not be good if the different views of the institution of the Serbian and Serbian government, which is the only authority, were not only a stumbling block, but a large space and the possibility that the international community, thanks to this disagreement and the dispute, could achieve everything it had intended in advance and intended in Kosovo and Metohija. We can in some ways understand and understand those who advocate theory in Vojvodina and impose a thesis that Serbia can go to Europe via Vojvodina. We can accept if Serbia is comprehensive, but Serbia can't go anywhere without Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22242	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the debate is concluded, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93 want to speak. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. () Since we have completed a single search on the motion for a resolution, does the representative of Proposer Vojislav Kostunica, Prime Minister, want the final word? The word is made by Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22243	Dear MPs, this is not the final word, this is just a word of gratitude at the end of this long debate, which brings us to the adoption of a very important resolution for Serbia, Serbia and Montenegro. The issues raised in that resolution were addressed longer last year, also adopting a document similar to nature, the Declaration, then the Serbian Government's plan. In some ways, in the wake of the solutions contained in these previous documents, there is a resolution that we will adopt today, I am convinced, with the largest possible support in this assembly, a resolution that is being made at a specific, crucial moment for Serbia, at the moment when negotiations on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija begin. I'd like to express my gratitude for all that's been said here. I would also like to point out before I vote that, of course, the resolution adopted in the Serbian Parliament will be a commitment to the government, to negotiators and, of course, that the government will have an obligation to address you, or to the relevant committee, the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, as the talks are under way. It's more than a firm commitment. I'd like to say one more thing: I feel obliged to take care of everything that's been said here. These discussions, normally, follow records and all that is said in the Assembly, are something that will also refer, direct and bind the government and the negotiating team into operation. We have come, I think, with the concessions we have made, with the compromises we have made, it is not possible otherwise, and compromises are the essence of democracy, at the end of a document that seems very clear and very solid to me, in which we have on our side a very firm, reliable ally, the strongest and most reliable possible ally, and this is international law and principles and rules on which international law rests. I can't help but express once again the satisfaction that in this great accident in which our people in Kosovo and Metohija have once again, as so many times in our history, by identifying ourselves between justice and justice and injustice and force, we define this home as justice and justice. That's very important. Finally, it is very important, if our arguments so far have been well received in the democratic world, in the international community, or if they are not properly challenged, because it is difficult to challenge them - if that is the case, then it is very important that we also come out of this assembly, adopting a resolution, with the most unique attitude. I think that's more than necessary. I would appeal in the end, on another occasion I would not do so, to the MPs of the Democratic Party who, as far as I could see from this debate, had an objection to one word, one expression or one sentence in the resolution. The sentence reads: "The future status of Kosovo and Metohija can only be defined within the framework of relevant principles and UN norms and other international organisations, respecting the constitutional order of Serbia-Montenegro and Serbia." "Constitutional Order" in the context of this sentence simply means our inner order. On the one hand, it is said that we will respect the international order, the UN, the rules in force, and on the other hand, that we will respect our internal order, as it will change. Of course he could have been different, of course we were all, so you could have contributed to another and different constitution, of course, that when we talk about the constitution, we have a process ahead of us. Things change. We'll get to the new constitution. We will probably come before these negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, which will be very difficult, long and complex before we reach the end. So if the only problem in these two words is "constitutional order", then this is about something called a generic term, it's about our inner order and nothing more than that. Therefore, if you have any reservation to the Constitution, although in some things you have and in some you do not have a reserve according to the current Constitution, please simply read this in the manner in which it is written - "constitutional order", which means our internal legal order, and normally to vote both of you and to join the vote for the resolution that has been issued here and proposed. This unity, along with all these other elements that I was talking about, along with the ally that we have in international law, and that it is difficult to find counterarguments for all that we have done, makes it even more necessary for this assembly, as was the case at previous sessions, to come up with a firm and unique attitude when it comes to such an important country of crucial resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-21-0.u22244	I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a resolution. Since the National Assembly held a debate on the single agenda of this session – Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, in accordance with Article 85(3). Rules of Procedure, I hereby appoint 21st of November 2005 as voting day, starting at 15.42 p.m. Before we move to a decision on a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija, the National Assembly should be made known on the revision of the text of the draft resolution, which was implemented by the Legislative Committee. You have received a report from the Legislative Committee containing a revision of the text of the motion for a resolution. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Is this a new session? ) We'll determine the quorum. Without a quorum, you can't vote. Mr. Nikolic, the session is open at the beginning, this is voting day and we can determine the quorum. We'll determine the quorum by your initiative, but as you know, without a quorum, you can't even vote. Please confirm the quorum. I understand 222 MPs are present in the O.R. I'm putting on a vote by the Legislative Committee. For 206, 28 abstentions, one of the 235 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the revision carried out by the Legislative Committee. We move to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I put to the vote the Proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on the future status of Kosovo and Metohija. For 205, abstention 29, of 234 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the mandate for political talks on Kosovo and Metohija's future status. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on the sole item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 99. [[Applause]] My Rules of Procedure closes the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Another announcement: tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., November 22nd, we continue the fifth regular session with discussion in detail of the first item of the agenda - draft budget law. Thank you.
