ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17853	Today, the daily work is held, believe it or not, 13 individual papers called decisions, i.e. proposals for decisions of the High Council of Justice, concerning the election of the president of the courts, the election of judges, prosecutors and several decisions concerning the resolution and termination of functions in the judiciary. Of course, this is complicated to see when it comes to the fact that material was accumulated in the meantime, probably before the National Assembly had to follow the chronology that is coming, since the Rules of Procedure allow this item of the agenda to be practically included and that the National Assembly shows not only efficiency in making final decisions on these issues, but also precision. I accidentally made one mistake at the Justice Committee session. In that pile of paper, I misread one sign and the report noted that I had challenged the candidate for the president of the Ivanjica court. I did that at the Justice Committee session, but I made a mistake. President, please note that we, the MPs of the SRS, the members of the Committee, have listed several of us in the report – we are withdrawing this challenge because it is a technical error. In the woods of those names, some of the symbols and what we need to be helped to consider, that mistake was stolen. However, we announced this at the session itself, given that 12-13 decisions, with seven or eight candidates, were made, the minister certainly knows more precisely. But there's probably over 100 names, so those mistakes are possible. What's important to say about this agenda point? The important thing is that we need to be aware that we have a big problem. I have to say, especially after Batic. To some, it's going to seem a little weird, a little funny, some people don't think it's serious. But today we have a situation where Batić's lustration was carried out in the judiciary, very unprincipled, that people were expelled, resolved, and some simply left voluntarily. They are aware of the situation that has hit the Serbian judiciary with Batic, and people have simply left the courts, prosecutors, set off as lawyers. The most characteristic group of people who suffered a terrible persecution during that period were, above all, deputy municipal and district attorneys. You know, 140 and a few people were running the procedure, it's mostly about deputies who just got oral notice overnight that they're not coming to work tomorrow, they've started some procedures to get back to work, that's to carry out an assessment of the legality of decisions, and I have to say that for most of them there are no decisions. The addition to all of this was to change the Law on Public Prosecutors where practically the Government took over the function of the National Assembly, and all of that when it was looked at, when it started to settle, to return to normal, to something that would be legal and constitutional, of course, cause problems. The SRS is an opposition party, however, is a party that attacks the government, but the judiciary is not a matter of power. The judiciary is a matter of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the issue of all political parties, serious parties that intend to be in power, to enforce laws. Therefore, the SRS makes a major contribution to the insights proposed by the High Council of Justice, because we don't care who shares justice, if I have to use those words. Since we've challenged a large number of candidates, I'm not going to quote and quote specific names and last names, it's in the report, but I have to say what are the reasons that led us to challenge the selection of individual candidates. In the beginning, I have to say that we've done a review in our own way, through the people of the court, through the prosecution, through lawyers and other people who understand themselves in the judiciary, and know what the situation is in the judiciary, they know locally the problem from court to court, so we're sure we're reading the most true information about who the candidates are and what they are, not just as experts, but also as people. The judge should be an expert, but he must also have a expressed dose of humanity, to be aware that he still decides on human rights, that he is the last instance when people lose trust in executive power, then they address first and foremost the court to judge and to say who was right. When it comes to the election of the president of the courts, the SRS was, above all, managed by the fact, if candidates are people who are already acting as president of the court, what is the situation in that court. Therefore, not only with regard to the urgency, the quality of judgments, but also with the interpersonal relations between the President of the Court and the people working in that court. In that sense, where the existing presidents are challenged by the SRS, then the results of the work in that court are poor and likely not to shine. Where we have not challenged, we have silently agreed to remain a candidate who is now the President of the Court for such results. Keep a man on doing his job, there's no need to move anything, if that gives good results. However, in the election of the president of the courts, we are concerned about one fact. Namely, only one candidate in the court structure, not because he is the only one interested, but because there are treasures and perhaps even an open threat to other colleagues not to compete, because he will support the college's pre-planned candidate. Wherever the situation arises, if someone was prevented from competing, I think it's two situations alone, we disputed the choice of candidates and we say, we dispute, because there is an incomparably better candidate in court who needs to be encouraged, because it has nothing to do with political parties or, according to his previous work, he's involved in something called corruption in the judiciary. When it comes to selecting the judges of the lower courts, first of all the municipal court, I have to say that we have managed the principle of what the results of the judicial trainees, the associates are, and if someone comes from the side, it does not come from the court, we have managed what kind of man he is, and if he is a lawyer, what is the opinion of his colleagues on his professional qualities. In the election of judges, we have challenged quite a number of candidates, because we believe that there are reasons for inadequacy, for some and intricacies, because there is no quality work experience, and above all I think of some work experience that is related to the judiciary. There's that legal thing, but there's no legal thing. We always give mild advantage to the people of the court in the choice of judges – when he was educated as an intern, an expert associate, etc. Of course, respecting all the circumstances that in some places it is very difficult to find a candidate. These are these little places where there are several judges. I think we've had that kind of problem with Babushnica or Pirot. So where are the little courts, there's really a problem finding a good candidate. There are problems even if there is some drastic deviation when the candidate has some criminal past or something. At that time, we challenged, but we respected this situation that it was difficult to find a high - quality judge, or fit. When it comes to judges, and they are proposed for county, municipal, and Supreme Court, we took care of the results of the work of individual judges. I'm going to use one example here, an example of the election of a senior court judge. The High Justice Council, I think, had six candidates, or six judges were elected, of which some internal agreement was to have four of them from Belgrade and two on the side. Maybe it's five, then it's three to two, something like that. When one looks at who applied from the Trade Court in Belgrade, the results of these judges' work, it is clear that the first, second and third results are neither proposed nor voted on by the High Council of Justice. Then we raise our voice, we dispute the choice of these other candidates, we have nothing against these people, and we think they're high-quality judges, but the question is, why is it that someone best when they compete can't go any further, what is it? When a small man asks questions, then another story is that the higher courts form their larger ones according to certain affinities, agreements. He may be a good judge, but he'll keep his mouth shut while he's on the council, he won't make a fuss. There are also people who do wicked things in our justice, there are. We have challenged these candidates, without any personal objections, or anything that would be related to their personality or their expertise. But we ask the question why can't those who are the best go any further? In which he achieves good results, if he can't get past the fifth, sixth or seventh candidates in a contest for the Supreme Trade Court. Then why evaluate the results of the judges if it is not noticed in any other way, whether by pay or by means of advancement. Every judge with full rights expects that after the traineeship, after that period as an expert associate, then for a period of time as a judge of the municipal court, he goes further to the district court and the next instance if he is shown to be of quality as a judge, as an expert and as a man. That's where we challenged it. Now I would like to cite as an example of one dispute, and it concerns the election of the President of the District Court in Prokuplje. Why did we challenge that? Mrs. Vida is here; we really don't understand, if the entire municipal court, all the judges are writing a criminal report against the President of the District Court, then there's something wrong. How can the High Council of Justice suggest this man again for the President of the District Court? Then when we get information that they've agreed in the meantime, and they've dropped the criminal charges, the question is, what are these judges like? First, those judges proved to be bad people. Why? Because they're malignant, because they hate, they abuse criminal charges to exorcise something and they prove they're not professional. If the judge writes a criminal report and doesn't process everything in a criminal report that would make it all clear to the public that he's prosecuted, he's proven not to be a good judge, not a good lawyer, first of all. That's what this is about. They got back together, they dropped the criminal charges, the D.A.'s after me, and the turkey picks don't work. How can he do that? When such a conflict occurs, one party must suffer because it is illogical to complete the alignment. Moral alignment is impossible to end this dispute. You ended it like that, I don't dispute it, but I'm telling you why we challenged the candidate who was proposed to be president of that court. I'm trying to tell you that it's perfectly normal to argue without making reconciliation, because it's a profession where there's no reconciliation. Either a man applies law as a judge or he doesn't apply it. If he's applying law, he can't be wrong about criminal charges. If he wrote a criminal report, it can't be guessed. It doesn't work at all. There is a huge dispute between the judges of the Municipal Court, because they have very concretely pointed to specific cases where the President of the District Court broke the law. Of course, when we find out these things, we can't support the election of the President of the District Court. Someone likes it or doesn't like it, but I'm trying to tell you why it's not good for such a candidate to choose as President of the Court. What else is characteristic of these choices? I don't dispute the right of a candidate who didn't make it a year ago for the District Court judge to compete now, to be president of the municipal court again. It is his right, but I must say for the sake of the public - if the SRS had challenged the candidate a year ago, I will take two examples, one President of the Court of Justice in Backo Palanca, he was a candidate for the District Court judge in Novi Sad, so it seems to me, and to our disputation the National Assembly did not elect that judge of the District Court. It is perfectly normal that we are now challenging her choice for the President of the Municipal Court in Backo Palanca, and it seems to me that the same situation with the Municipal Court in Zajecar is exactly the same situation. The question is, can these people even be in court? But we are not the responsible, the MP group and the National Assembly, but the Great Personally Greater, and the basic regret, if something is being settled in the judiciary, you must start with the resolutions. If there are these co-operations within the Great Personal Council that "the crow won't be around to pull out", then tell the public, as it is impossible for such objections to go to the work of individual judges without the competent judicial authorities doing anything about it. Here we all say -- corruption in the judiciary, we fight corruption, we fight this, and then we say -- now we're going to raise their wages. It doesn't make sense. If it's corruption, let's clear up with those people involved in corruption. If a lot of procedures are initiated for resolution, initiate (not started but initiated), allow these procedures to be completed. Believe me, if we want to settle something in our judiciary in the next five years, normal jobs at each session should be choice and resolution, two simultaneous procedures. One is a solution - to cleanse what is not for judgment, and to seek the people who will work according to the Constitution and the law, and to judge. These are some things that need to be taken care of. Since time is running out, I'd just like to fill out the list of disputes, so you don't get me wrong. The motion for a decision on the choice of judges, number 119-1477/05 – is elected by the judges. The municipal court in Novi Sad – we challenge candidate Vujkov-Prentović Nelu. It is a candidate under regular number 2 and candidates under regular number 8 – Nastic Vladimira. That's the supplement. We found that out later. In Subotica, this is Decision 119-1690/05, we challenge the candidate for the district of the District Court in Subotica, the Municipality Court of Subotica, candidate under regular number 1 – Gvosdenović Nikola. That would be an addition to what we already disputed at the Committee's session. We don't want to go very specifically with names, so that someone doesn't misread it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17854	Time's up, but we'll wait for you to find a challenge.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17855	Just you, President, enjoy it, it's all under control. Now there won't be any mistake made on the board.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17856	Don't worry, I enjoy it, but the clock doesn't enjoy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17857	We are joining, for the sake of the public, the challenge of candidates to elect the president of the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin, that is Aleksandra Odavic-Mak. I point out that we are joining because it has already been disputed, but it says that we are also joining this dispute. They're almost the same reasons we came up with with some follow-up check. It's the same decision. When it comes to selecting public prosecutors, apart from what we have challenged, we no longer dispute anything. We retain the right to point out, in principle, some specific problems that will arise in this joint debate, and you will likely find in the report that there are some disputes with other parliamentary groups. The motives are completely different, especially when it comes to the First and Second Municipal Court in Belgrade. The motives of the Democratic Party and of the Serbian Radical Party are completely different for the dispute, but I hope that during the debate, there will be opportunities to point very concretely through the replicas and in other ways to some when they challenge some candidates, because they cannot challenge only on the basis of a newspaper article or on the basis of what relationship they had with kidnapping.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17858	Please, MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the parliamentary group, and then Marko Krstin, the authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17859	Mr. President, Mrs. Shkero, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I will say a few words about today's agenda, changes in the judiciary, because I think this is a very important topic for the state of Serbia. I somehow have the impression, and me and other fellow MPs from the SPS, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia appears in the process of election and resolution of judicial officials as the only institution that questions the way the judiciary works and can influence the way the judiciary works, beyond those assessments given in public, which are often very interestingly motivated, few are impartial and objective. However, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, through the presentation of the MPs, we can hear a slightly different story about the holders of judicial functions compared to the one heard in the High Council of Justice. I don't mind the VSP, I can only say that in that body or in the information that comes into that body there are often inconsistencies, there's a principle when going along a line of less resistance, when a colleague won't criticise, don't God suggest a resolution. A growing number of Serbian citizens are unsatisfactory. I'm putting aside even this dimension of party promotion, party proposal and the election of staff, as we've had since 2001. At last session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I presented the data presented by the assistant justice minister in the first DOS government, that between 165 court presidents, sometime by mid-2002, had been changed by 150 court presidents. Since I was a member of the Justice Committee, I have seen which criteria were dominant. It's so much more important to discuss each candidate at sessions like this, if possible, and to say the argument why someone shouldn't do the job. It is very important for Serbia, because citizens do not have any other option for us MPs in the Serbian Parliament to essentially challenge the choice of a candidate. For example, I saw that a man who was illegally elected four years ago was elected to the VSP the other day for the President of the Court of Justice in Književec, which I informed the Assembly of four years ago, and I will again inform when it comes to the agenda. The VSP has practically amnested that illegality and extended its mandate. They were more concerned about why someone should not be the President of the Court of Justice than about why this illegally elected one should extend his mandate. But that's the way. On the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I raised several disputes about candidates for the presidents of the courts. I explained something then, I'll do something now. Here, let me start with Belgrade. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I have disputed the choice of candidates for the second court president, Mrs Gordana Mihajlovic, for the reason that in the past four years, she has done herself with her behaviour, manner of working, publicly showing certain political views, "a bear service", especially by working within the court. Simply, we SPS MPs find it not a good proposal for the VSP to be re-elected. During her term of office, she was more engaged in public, media, putting forward her views on the issue of humanitarian law and the protection of human rights, and, in our opinion, she paid insufficient attention to resolving basic issues related to the court in which she was head. Personal knowledge, as well as information transmitted through public information means, shows that the work of this court has been inadequately handled, so that the heads of individual departments, particularly in those particularly sensitive, such as the investigation and guilt department, have been appointed judges who are not professional enough in these areas. We have also learned through the means of information that this President of the Court has hired retired judges to be its advisers in key matter, such as litigation and criminal matter, although it was logical that these cases are being consulted and counseled by the President of the Court by judges of that court, who, according to our knowledge, have 60 in the whole court. This team, before the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Court, points out that such matters shall be carried out by the President of the Court of Justice or by one of the Judges of the Court. With this in mind, it is also not a clear way to regulate the financial compensation paid by those other persons, advisers who are not judges, but advisers pensioners. Therefore, there is an unclear way of funding, i.e. the source of funds from which the President of the Court paid both the persons employed and its advisers, because there are, in principle, no such advisers in other Belgrade courts. Also, from several sources, through certain lawyers, as well as from the means of information, which was not so, I find out that even before the adoption of the Law on Mediation, the President of this court provided outside the court's building, for the purposes of the court, the premises of the housing unit in Tesla Street, outside the Court of Justice, or the buildings of the court in which the mediation proceedings were conducted, and that, in these judges doing their regular affairs, for the entire time of the term of office, it did not provide adequate conditions for the work, so that in that court there are three judges in the cabinet of seven square meters, and even three judges in the same courtroom. Of course, not at the same time, but the fact that they need to be in the same room for lack of space, in any case, reduces the number of days of judgment in the month. While one judge is on trial, others cannot judge in the same room, and this directly affects the possibility of meeting the standard. By increasing the number of judges who are not provided with work space, budget expenditure costs are also increased, and no burning problems, spatial and other technical preconditions for quality settlement of court disputes and, of course, the urgency of the work of this court are resolved. So, instead of dealing with the fundamental problems of improving the work of the court, adequate organisation and handling in the work of the court, providing adequate conditions for the work of judges, this president was more concerned with the development of humanitarian law, mediation and for this purpose hired pensioners' advisers, renting space outside the building, printing luxury promotional material for mediation, giving additional financial compensation to judges who participated in the mediation process, and these judges led to official travel in the country and abroad, and thus favoured others. All of this may not be a problem if the state of this court is such that the President of the Court, in addition to his basic work, can also deal with these affairs. However, the objective situation in court is the same, almost the same, if not worse than four years ago, when it was elected president. In order to avoid confusion, we dispute the choice of this candidate for the President of the Court, because we think there is no reason to trust her again, in addition to all these objections made in public, which are not denied. In view of the fact that this court is very large and that it covers three large municipalities: the Sava Wreath, Rakovica and Chukarica, that there are a large number of problems and a large number of issues that he needs to solve, I must say that, in addition to these things, we also have a very concrete objection to its work and behaviour. Namely, we had one business space, a party space, on Milosha Pocerca Street. By applying the Law on the financing of political parties, to the surprise of all of us, the President of the Court has directly engaged in a misappropriation. Of course he can, but it's not usual for the President of the Court to force himself to commit a misappropriation. This in itself speaks of a single dose of political acuity that exists in that person and towards us. Our verdict, which was abolished in the District Court, was returned to the Second Court and then the president changed the larger judge, although the District Court did not ask for it. So there's an absolute acuity towards us and we don't think it's good for the court and for his work. I also challenged several other proposals on the Justice Committee, including a proposal for a municipal court candidate in Kovin. Namely, I have a letter from Mayor Kovin, whom he, on behalf of the local self-government he considers and suggests, thinks it best to choose another person or one of those who did not then apply for the president of the court. In the court itself, there are a large number of pending cases and complaints from citizens on the work of the court. The situation in the court is such that a great responsibility is borne by a person who was the president of the court and it is quite illogical, given that the situation in the court is disastrous, there are a number of complaints that it will be re-elected. That's the line I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17860	Excuse me, will you use the other 10 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17861	If necessary, and in principle, I will report on behalf of the parliamentary group, as we have plenty of documentation on how it is done in the Serbian judiciary, or how it is misused for political purposes. I also disputed the proposal for a candidate for the President of the Court of Justice in Obrenovac, for the simple reason that it showed absolute political bias and intolerance towards political unsuspecting. Unfortunately, I say politically, and that shouldn't be the subject of this, but it is, because many of the presidents of the courts have been brought on political grounds, and so has that candidate. For example, I have information that from a group of workers who were accused of possession of illegal diplomas, only two girls who are otherwise daughters of express left-wings were sentenced, although there were, of course, other people who were prominent members of DOS, but the selective approach itself speaks enough. Perhaps the best indicator of this relationship or the situation in the judiciary is one trial for our member, and I will not mention his name since the process is under way, which has been accused of the famous abuse of criminal status, of buying for the purposes of one ministry in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, three vehicles and issuing orders of 700,000 dinars for fuel consumption. What happens now? Meanwhile, the minister of one ministry informs the defence attorney who is interested in it – that the budget is not damaged at all, nor have these three vehicles been purchased in an illegal manner, nor is there a need for the ministry. On the contrary, there is also the need of the ministry for these vehicles, and neither the state nor the ministry are in any way damaged. That leaves 700,000 dinars for gas. Now imagine the situation that my colleague, our member, is not controversial and should not hide it, finds that the new minister in the DOS government (not Batic, not important) spent on the same basis of 10 million dinars. Look out, he issued fuel consumption orders for 10 million dinars, and this colleague of ours has been charged with 670,000 dinars. When a man, seeking justice and thinking that justice exists, writes to the prosecutor's office a plea against that minister for 10 million, and we know that both laws are allowed, it is not at all controversial, but in this first case, the Socialist is being charged, and in the second, the answer has arrived – we have no idea to press charges against that man, because he is the DOS minister. Finally, it is a protected species and cannot be subject to the work of the judiciary. When it comes to the prosecution, I have to mention one thing that's gotten a lot of space in the media these past few days and you'll see on this case what it looks like in practice when, unfortunately, political criteria dominate the professional. It's about a candidate for deputy prosecutor in Kursumlia, Mr. Ratko Zecevic. Namely, a campaign began three weeks ago when it was heard that the High Council of Justice had proposed that candidate, that he was a symbol of Milosevic's time, that he used a gun, that he lynched people, that he was morally inadequate, etc. No one wanted to say that this man worked in the judiciary, no one wanted to mention how the event happened and whether it was really his fault or what he did so much at the event, which happened in Poduplje in July 1999, to bear the burden of it, or to be an obstacle to his choice. In fact, when you look at his résumé, I have to say, it's evident that the man was also working at the Prokuplje prosecutor's office, and in court, and he had extraordinary results, and he was the head of Toplički County. There's no stain on his work and what's taken on his soul. With the circumstances, I received this documentation earlier, and I saw that today the Witness list published the same story, but it's terribly illustrative, so I'm sorry I'm going to take three minutes for this, because it's very important that you see how one event can get a whole other content through the media. Namely, it was the Alliance for Change rally held in July 1999 in Prokuplje. The man who was beaten that day by the crowd, the story now six years later that he had gone to the rally and that someone from the crowd had given him a bag containing tomatoes and eggs, that he had been shooting towards the stage, that he had hit unfortunately one of the people standing on the stage, the names were not important. At that moment, a group of young men set out to beat him. As the SPS building was located nearby, a man fled from a decomposed crowd and those who wanted to lynch it fled towards the SPS building. Then they caught up with him, and they began to beat him, and there was confusion, and there was screaming, and someone said, "Zeko is coming out, and they have killed a man." The rabbit came out, shot in the air, and stopped the man's lynch. That's what the man who was beaten up said that day. Now comes the biggest paradox of all this story. That man is a member of the SPO. This is what he says, that is, his friend and both of them are making statements that in essence that day, Ratko Zecevic saved his life, because of the few beatings he received that day, he was treated for several weeks, and of course he was also in the hospital, and medical findings, etc. Here's the point of the story, Ratko Zecevic saved one man from certain death, but that's why no one wants that fact to point out, but that event and that shooting him in the air shows completely different. I'm saying who's interested, and I've been given this by circumstances before knowing that this will be on the Assembly's agenda, but there's documentation. Also, we think it is not good that the candidate for the prosecutor in Pozarevec should be Mr. Vojinovic, for the reason that he has shown in his work so far a large dose of bias and selectivity in approach to resolving certain issues and problems that were on the prosecution's agenda. We simply have a selective approach in his work and he didn't deserve to be elected prosecutor. I have challenged the proposal to elect Mr. Kolar as prosecutor in Backo Palanca. I've talked about this subject several times in the assembly, and I have to mention it, and I'm glad Mrs. Shkero is here, because she can hear what it looks like when a colleague of mine won't say anything. A few months ago, I was talking, maybe even a little bit more, about another man, but that gentleman was objectively on the agenda, because he was then a deputy district attorney. I mentioned then, believe it or not; Mrs. Shkero, you are the President of the Supreme Court, so you face everything in your work; believe it or not, he then filed a criminal complaint against his superior - municipal prosecutor, for the crime: illegal hunting under Article 162(4). The criminal law of Serbia. What illegal money, or criminal part, is in itself, is sufficiently explained by the explanation that he gave, or what he wrote. He says this gentleman: "By the use of a hunting dog, he was caught by the deer, squishy, saying, hold him, hold him, catch him, catch him, after which the hunting dog caught the snorkel. This caused damage to the damaged hunting association of the Municipality of Backo Palanka in the amount of 160,000 dinars." Experts, philosophers say this is impossible, but you can imagine how long the willingness goes to meet the needs of the government, because there were only words to change a man, and then he needed to make mistakes. Even then, unfortunately, the republican prosecutor Sinisa Simic in his decision to suspend the man completely incorrectly wrote that he shot the man. But in any case, I'm talking about Mr. Kolar, who has consciously agreed to participate in this shameful action and thus demonstrated his willingness to serve at all costs the authorities, that he has no independence, that he is willing to do anything to achieve some goal. The fact that later, when he took his predecessor's place, because the system of government functioned properly, he gave up two of the accusations put on his predecessor's soul, he himself says that man is willing to do anything to be proposed, or elected. We believe, given that we have as much documentation as you want, that it is absolutely not suitable for such an important place. I'm taking care of the weather. (President: Excuse me, Mr. Radovic, if you'd like... Yeah, you're done. We can hook up if you want. I must say, on the committee itself, I also challenged the choice of two men. I am now publicly doing so, withdrawing the dispute for Mrs. Saric-Medjo Zoric for the municipal court judge in Zrenjanin and Mr. Velimir Vlajkovic, because I then joined others, and in the meantime I received other documentation showing that these allegations were arbitrary. I do so publicly for the record, but because of the lack of time and inability to speak, and if there is an opportunity, I will say, on behalf of the SPS, I challenge Mr. Gavrilovic's election as municipal prosecutor in Šapec.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17862	Mr. Shuput, you were able to record both of these withdrawals? Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Krstin, the authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17863	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Petrovic-Skero, the G17 Plus MP and I, personally, as a lawyer who deals with this profession, find that this procedure that we are now conducting in the selection of judicial officials is of great importance for the establishment of a rule of law in Serbia. The judges are independent, independent, there is a continuity of judicial office, the Constitution has guaranteed it, but without the judge and prosecutors from the protection of citizens' rights there is nothing, and I am really very pleased that this assembly has considered this very important issue on the Committee for Justice and Management, and on the other hand that the President has put it on the agenda, so that it can be decided by an urgent procedure. What does that mean for citizens? It is not necessary to explain if it is considered that our courts, and especially those in major cities, are buried, that general litigators work 300 to 400 cases, and someone is waiting for a decision to be made. So what we are doing today is of great importance to a large number of people, who, thanks to the choice of judicial officials, will achieve or protect their rights. It's a key thing to take care of and always put these points in whenever there's a possibility, and by an urgent procedure, to put the holders of judicial functions in place as soon as possible. It is the special responsibility of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the establishment and resolution, i.e. the choice and resolution of the holders of judicial functions, because the Assembly not only chooses and resolves the holders of the judicial authority, but also brings normative frameworks in which the judicial authority moves. I would just like to remind you that this assembly has passed a series of rules on the determination of courts, on judges, on the High Council of Justice, on the public prosecutor's office, which has created organisational and regulatory conditions for the work of judicial authorities on the one hand, and on the other hand, on a number of procedural rules, which have shortened the deadlines and more specifically prescribed the obligations of parties and bodies in the process, all of which should allow the judicial authorities to really work on the exercise of rights and the interests of citizens. We are now working on creating human resources, which is necessary. It is an election, given these withdrawal decisions that have now been announced, about 150 judicial officials. It's a large number of judicial officials, especially if we have in mind that this is a large number of court presidents, which is 59 presidents of courts and nine prosecutors. They are key to achieving judicial and judicial functions in a broader sense. The Justice Committee held a constructive debate on July 14th, and I am very pleased that the hearing was attended by the Supreme Court president, as well as Minister Stojkovic. In this debate, indeed, all sides, and opposition and positions, took a constructive stance, and G17 Plus is very pleased that he is as someone in power, who makes up the position at this time, has managed to achieve such a constructive atmosphere in the Serbian parliament. For G17 plus the basic conditions for selecting the holders of judicial functions are professionality and dignity, as Article 44 says. The Law on Judges and Article 61 The D.A.'s Law. Only this can be the basis and all other stories, conversations – heard from this, heard from the professional public, etc. It is not what it represents, first of all, expertise, while we have elements about dignity in such conversations, knowledge, etc. Candidates who, according to their personal papers (under the Law on Judges, Judges have a personal list) do not meet professional conditions, can neither be proposed nor elected for judicial functions. Furthermore, candidates who have not shown themselves professional in the lower level of trial cannot progress to a higher level of trial, I mean judicial associates, assistant judges, as well as to the transition of people who are lawyers with a judicial exam from other areas of human activity to judicial authorities. That's basically what we can talk about. For us "worthy" means that he or she enjoys the reputation in the middle he is in. I'll make a different opinion than my predecessor regarding candidate Ratko Zecevic as deputy municipal public prosecutor in Kursumlia. I really appreciate that the means of public information are written, but I see a photograph, I see a man with a cigarette on the balcony holding a gun pretty non-chalantly. So it's not about the necessary defense or the ultimate necessity, so he had to pull it out to protect someone. That's what you see when you look at a photo, it's a nonchalant behavior, which really shows no dignity to perform a function. But I also appreciate my colleague's opinion, he's looking at it differently, and I'm looking at it from this side again. Next, I want to say next. With the choice of judicial officials, this assembly does not complete its work. The congregation must perform in a certain and specific way some kind of oversight of the work of judicial officials. Just because someone's chosen and he's constant as a judge doesn't mean he can't work, he can't be unconscious and he's untimely doing his job. The law on judges has settled the issue, and it requires that the presidents of different levels of trial respond to such work by judges. Here we have the President of the Supreme Court and I really expect that we have such situations that this assembly will discuss judges who do not work in good time do not work securely and professionally to be resolved here in this assembly. If the Assembly only stopped to elect judges and prosecutors without overseeing their work as a kind of resolution, then the function of the Assembly would not be fully realized and we could not say that as a congregation we had fully accomplished our function. If the presidents of the lower courts do not respond to such phenomena, I expect the President of the Supreme Court and the District Court to respond to this and to propose the resolution of those presidents who allow such events to arise or that they even happen in the judiciary. The judiciary doesn't exist just for itself, there are no citizens because of the judiciary, there is justice because of the citizens, and we have to look at the judiciary like that. I am very pleased that the budget creates conditions to raise the salaries of judicial workers. In doing so, I mean not only judges, not only holders of functions and prosecutors, but also other workers, because there is no justice without it. So that's what we have to think about. We need to think about the material conditions for the work of the judicial authorities. We have to think that judges can't judge in rooms 3 by 2, because there are no elementary conditions to achieve basic respect for the work of the court. Also, we need to think that judges have to write records on the appropriate devices that allow them to dictate, to make peace with those records, to write judgments, etc. We have to make sure that the judges have to have the necessary professional literature, professional training. This parliament should also deal with it. But that, on the other hand, requires the judges to really enable citizens to exercise their rights in good time and in a safe and legal manner. So I expect that in addition to the election of judges we have here and situations where in a certain, true, smaller number of cases, we will consider the issue of untimely, illegal and unconscious work of judges. That wasn't here. I think it's in practice. I expect the Presidents of the Court of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court will respond to this. I am very pleased that such cases already appear in our case law, that senior courts respond to the treatment of lower courts. We have the president of a municipal court who has been suspended because he has not responded that his judges in court for several years are not making decisions that have concluded the debate. That's a good example, and that's how it's supposed to go on. In the end, I would especially like to draw attention, and so is the minister of justice among us, that the Ministry of Justice under the Justice Act has affairs of the judicial administration, where it is necessary to control the execution of justice cases. It means that it solves time and time in time objects and reacts in a proper manner. With regard to challenging some candidates for holders of functions in the judicial authorities in Novi Sad, I would like to say the following. Since I'm from Novi Sad, it would really be necessary to elect the President of the Trade Court in Novi Sad at this session. A trade court in Novi Sad has been without a president for four years. It is necessary to elect a president. I would like to remind you that we did not select the proposed candidate at the last meeting. Now we have another candidate. I would suggest that the candidate be voted for, because he meets all the conditions to be president of the court. I also suggest we vote for the President of the City Court in Novi Sad. At the last session, we filled the District Court with extremely high-quality judges with over 75% pass-by, and up to 80-90%. Also, I'd like to choose the 10 candidates for the municipal court judges in Novi Sad. I want to tell you that it is most young people who have proven themselves in the work as judges, especially what I do not have, and a colleague has challenged Nastic as a candidate for the municipal court judge, a poor opinion. I have other opinions and knowledge, as a lawyer, that counterpart Nastic is one of the best judicial interns, that the judges, so to speak, fought a battle over who will get the chance that counterpart Nastic is helping the judge make the verdict. (President: I apologize, Mr. Kristin, will you use more time? (No.) (No. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17864	Thank you, Mr. Christin. The word has been issued by MP Miodrag Djidic, an authorised representative of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17865	Mr. President, the Honorable President of the Supreme Court, dear fellow MPs, I am sorry that every time I go out for this pay phone, and when I talk about the judiciary, I have to say that the situation in the Serbian judiciary is still very bad, that we do not, unfortunately, move for the better. These are facts, however hard the minister tried to show that in the Serbian judiciary the situation was much better than it was when he came to the post and came a year and a half ago. It seems to me that in those years and a half nothing has been done for the better, although I have to admit that there have been attempts at law-making, but in the field, the situation is quite different. They're all dissatisfied, they're dissatisfied, they're dissatisfied. The judges are dissatisfied because their material status is what it is. Their last pay changes increased by 30%, which I want to commend, but I don't think that's enough. They're unhappy with their working conditions. You won't believe it, but today in Serbia's courts, dactylographers are knocking on mechanical machines, which in the 21st century, in my opinion, is inadmissible. I think it needs to be resolved as soon as possible and allowed people to do normal work. There's not much to talk about. They're absolutely unhappy, because today, too, it's hard to get justice in this country. It's hard to reach final judicial verdicts, because the judiciary, I don't know for what reasons, is very inefficient, so today you have disputes that, unfortunately, last 20 years. I think the reason can be guessed, which is that the Serbian judiciary is not depolitized until today. I don't think this government has the strength, the will, the desire to do it. I'm going to illustrate this on several examples, precisely with proposals that are now in front of us and that are to give some new presidents of the courts, some new public prosecutors or deputy public prosecutors. So there's no point in politicizing, because if that were the case, the High Council of Justice would not have made its decision no. 119/01 proposed to the public prosecutor at the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Mr. Milovan Bozovic, who comes from Jagodina. Why does the High Council of Justice do that? A man's 39 years of work, another year and he'll retire. Does anyone think that this man will do something concrete and positive in a year to improve the Belgrade District Attorney's Office? I don't think so. I can offer an answer to the Assembly why that is. Because this is the condition of some of the parties in the coalition, which, for this government to survive, condition the vote, when it comes to trust the government, are precisely some humane solutions in the judiciary. (Tomislav Nikolic from the place: Do you know that from the old days? From the old days, while you were, Mr. Nikolic, more than we did, we didn't do it. (Tomislav Nikolic from the place: We are in the ancients. Yes, you're in the old days, that's right. (President: Please, no debate with MPs.) So that's, in my opinion, inadmissible. I think the man who spent the entire century in Jagodina, as deputy prosecutor, should be there and finished, and there must be people in Belgrade who can do that job well. I can't believe that in a city of 2.5 million people, so many people with a passed judicial exam, who are prominent lawyers and legal experts, there's no one who could do this job in an effective and real way? I think I gave the answer. Another example, which I want to point out, was spoken of by my predecessors – my colleague Obradovic and colleague Krstin, is Ratko Zečević. So in 1999, he became famous all over the world, because a photo of his character, with a gun blown up, with a cigarette in his mouth, went around the world. It's about shooting in the air, but is the district chief allowed to shoot in the air? What was the police doing? Why did he do it? So there was a peaceful protest of the Alliance for Change, but then the ossion of power showed all its strength in the image of Ratko Zečević, who, allegedly to save someone, was shot in the air. I don't think it drinks water, so it can't. Ratko Zecevic, in addition to that reason, has another reason why he should not be elected Deputy District Attorney in Kursumlia. The reason is that this man is a member, a prominent SPS official. Knowing in part Ratko Zečević, I'm sure he would never agree not to be a member of the SPS. That's for sure. Is he supposed to be the deputy district attorney, when we all say that in the judiciary he shouldn't be party officials, that he should be people who deal exclusively with the law? So that's another reason why Ratko Zecevic should never be elected Deputy Public Prosecutor in Kursumlia. But 22 SPS MPs depend on the fate of this government, that is their condition and therefore the ruling coalition simply has to swallow and accept it. I really hope and believe that very soon there will come a time when no party will ever push their staff into the judiciary again, but that there will come the most capable, the best, because this is a condition for the progress of this society, which, unfortunately, is now in the Great Mushroom. Another very illustrative example, the District Court in Valjevo. So, the President of the District Court in Valjevo, Mr Djukanovic, who has extraordinary results, seems to me the best in Serbia, and that is not just our opinion, it is illustrated in the Serbian Supreme Court Bilten. So, unfortunately, the proposal is for that man to change and for another candidate to come to his place. I would like to hear the answer why a good judge has to be replaced and I will offer an answer – it is the same as in the previous two cases. So that's a condition for someone to vote tomorrow on the government's trust. I got a letter from a group of judges, which I'm going to read, and I think it illustrates everything that's going on in the judiciary. So, the justice minister in the election campaign for the President of the Republic last year participated in the campaign, so when he spoke about the judiciary, he said: we promised an independent judiciary – done. Here's what I'm talking about. We're far from an independent judiciary, and there's still a lot of water going through before we do it. It is said this: "In addition to carrying out a basic task by introducing independence in the judiciary through changes in the law, a solid colletaral benefit has been achieved." They are the most regulated in one sentence in prison to the unwanted and possible direct presidents of the courts. This and retirement introduced the state of V.D. The president in Serbia's most important courts, the Supreme Court, the Belgrade District Court, Novi Sad and Nis, and many others. He was disbanded once again with a sentence in the law and quite legally elected by the High Council of Justice in the middle of his term, I guess it would prove that the minister is not satisfied with his work and that the newly elected watchful work. The Supervisory Board has been formed as an additional threat to the judges to watch what they're doing. In a situation like this, the minister manages like a fish in the water. What the previous minister, Batic, who was married to the glory of the Serbian judiciary's independence, did not think of doing, the new minister, the ovary of the regenerator of independence of the same judiciary, as routine activities. The introduction of an independent and independent judiciary began with a blow to the head of the same judiciary. If we remind ourselves that it didn't happen until October 6th, primarily because of the DSS and its president, then it's really unusual for those same legalists to afford themselves a cold 6th of October in the Justice Department, with the appropriate lustration, of course. All of this has been followed by two serious failures in the approach to judicial reform. It is possible that at this point, the most constructive would be to engage in a debate about the proposed candidates, but we find that hard to believe. We just don't know where to start. It seems to us that it is more appropriate to tackle things in the root and point to serious problems with which more and more justice is being dealt with by the judiciary, and in order to do so, it is necessary to return to the beginning. The beginning was when last February the winning coalition formed a government where the principle that each party has unlimited rights was represented, to work on its own. It was natural for the DSS to belong to the justice portfolio when the fight for an independent judiciary was a highly quoted item in the DSS pre-election programme. That's what it would've been The first shock took place by selecting a person for the minister of justice. It has been named the frame which has been marked that while the judge was safe and thoroughd political processes in Eastern Europe. It is hard to believe that such a vessel can have valid legitimacy, that it introduces an independent judiciary in Serbia. Protests followed, I guess due to the principle of unlimited rights in the vault, ended as it ended, ate the donkey wolf, the minister took office. One small crackdown, it is not clear how it came to be that the minister of justice has of all members of the government far the most performing in the means of information. For reason of wit and beauty probably not, but we must not think that he could be the best promoter of a new policy in Serbia. At first, you were characterised by various statements. We remember the announcement of the suspension of the special courts, and then the thing went into routine. The fact that Mr. Minister has been sick and tired of everyone who understands a little bit in the judiciary is a sad comfort, because the great damage has already been done, and it can't be seen when it will stop. The next shock comes very quickly. By mid - April, changes in judicial laws have been coming to the Assembly’s agenda. It is deleted unconstitutionally bigger for the issues of the judicial administration which is fine and all competences return to the High Council of Justice, which is also fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17866	Are you using another 10 minutes? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17867	Of course, with proper intimation during this period when the election of the President of the Courts is being made. Go to Serbia's courts a little, because no one can speak publicly, and they will not, but it is very easy to determine that fear and feeling of uncertainty and humility once again prevailed in Serbia's judiciary. You'll rarely hear it's never been worse. The choice of a court and especially the president of a court in a climate like this can't do any good. It is possible, we are inclined to believe that a good number of citizens believe that Mr Kostunica is at the heart of an independent judiciary and that it is a highly quoted item – a struggle for an independent judiciary in the DSS programme of sincere desire to do something in the judiciary. Unfortunately, at the end of its term, and we hope that this will soon happen, Kostunica will be able to face the results achieved. There are a large number of laws passed, we are approaching the European environment and an even greater degradation of the judicial personnel that should act as independent and independent judges in this legal environment. In the end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read to you the names of the judges who challenge the DS. So, for the candidates for the president of the courts, the First Municipal Court, we dispute Vojkono Simic, for the Second – Gordana Mihajlović and for the Third – Nada Mihajlović. We are contesting the election of Dragan Obradovic as the President of the District Court in Valjevo for the reasons I have already talked about. Ponovic, Mr. Djukanovic has excellent results and it would indeed be disastrous and scandalous for him to be replaced, and for Dragan Obradovic to come to his place, which we do not have a bad opinion on, but we think that Mr. Djukanovic is a much better solution. For the Trade Court in Novi Sad, we dispute Velimir Vlajković, for the Supreme Trade Court in Belgrade, we dispute Goran Savic, for the Municipality Court in Bora – Zorica Jovanovic for the Municipality Court in Novi Sad – Petra Mohan, for the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica – Borislav Pupavec, for the Municipality Court in Priboj – Bosiljko Palibrk, for the Municipal Court in Cačka – Acu Vukevic. Furthermore, for the Municipal Court in Zrenjanin, I apologize for not arguing, I think it's a good solution. When it comes to prosecutors, we dispute for the deputy municipal public prosecutor at the Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Ćuprija – Oliver Jevremovic, as deputy municipal public prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin – Nenad Srzentic. For the deputy municipal public prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia – Ratko Zečević, for the reasons I spoke. As vice-president of the Republic Public Prosecutor, we dispute Mrs. Marija Sušnevic and the Serbian Supreme Court of Justice-Mr. Mikhail Rulic, who served as President of the Higher Trade Court in Belgrade from 2001 to 2004, and had very poor results. We think that as a judge he is not fit to be judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, so we also dispute his request. Our proposal is that, hopefully, this will happen when the courts change, an institute will be installed to disband all judges in Serbia and move into a new re-election and thus come up with real and valid solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17868	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has one of the motions, President of the Supreme Court, Mrs Vida Petrovic-Škero.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17869	To welcome the President of the Assembly and MPs, to express my satisfaction because the Assembly managed to put this item on the agenda, given the great problem that would arise in Serbia, if they did not make a choice under the proposal of the High Council of Justice, since we all know how courts function when they have a large amount of V.D. I hope that the Assembly will succeed at this pace and that what awaits us in September of the month when another large number of presidents are due to be appointed. I just want to say a few words. First, I was late for the reason I was called four minutes before I arrived. So, the moment the assembly started to ambush. So, I don't know if it's a relationship or a coincidence, but I'd like to apologize on the one hand, and on the other hand to say that my delay is not a result of a lack of respect for the Assembly, but rather, obviously, a lack of respect for me or the court, because I don't see myself as important. I would like to refer with a few sentences to what is the way the High Council functions and how the High Council has given its proposals, of course, as regards the proposal for the election of judges, because here in these discussions I have noticed that there is no difference between it and that the High Council is chaired and an ambush in the second composition when the judges are proposed, and in the second composition when it proposes prosecutors, so I am chaired solely for the proposal of judges and the President of the Courts. The High Council of Justice, meanwhile, has made its Rules of Procedures on criteria and rules of procedure, which have been complemented by the High Council at last, and will receive the Justice Committee, and therefore every MP, in which way he tries to reach objective criteria, that in the meantime, forms are made which will represent a unique way of monitoring all judges in Serbia, so that there will be an opportunity to compare and all that you expect from the High Council, which is – to see why someone is offered by quality and why someone is not. As well as that an agreement has been made with the Committee on Justice, which the Committee has taken little advantage of at the moment, which is that at the time when the members of the Committee, when they get a list of the proposed candidates, deliver their remarks on dignity, since MPs, or the Assembly, have a much greater opportunity to determine this fact than members of the High Council, or judges who have to determine quality, and you have the opportunity to inform the High Council in time of suspicion of dignity and the possibility of our verification in time. What I wanted to add is, when you think about candidates, about what the President of the Court can do, it's regulated by what is the law and what gives the rules of procedure the opportunity of the President of the Court. The Ministry Act, Article 5, provides for conditions for the work of the judiciary to be provided by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. executive power. So, what kind of building we're going to have, how many judges are going to sit in which cabinet, whether that building is adequate or not -- can't really depend, unfortunately, on the judicial authority, but on the other two branches of government. Furthermore, what I was going to say is that we have to think about that the judiciary has had its own period for more than a decade when somewhere in its quality and quantity has been constantly falling. We all know the reasons why, we all know what kind of condition (material) the judiciary was, what certain pressures were, where the judge couldn't work if he had six marks in three wars and how the judiciary was leaving court personnel. If we have come to such a state, no one can expect the judiciary, which has been collapsing for 15 years with its composition, with its quality, by leaving the judges, suddenly returns to a state of quality. It's a process that has to go on and it's a process that can't just be done by the judiciary. Reforming the judiciary cannot create its own justice system. Both legislative and executive powers must participate in this. Legislative by its quality work, with regard to the adoption of laws that will enable the work, and executive – what will be the conditions for work and what will help us to bring about all that the work of the judiciary does, and hence the reconstruction, or reforming the legal system, will lead to all this which will help us to get quality judges, because until all this is done, we will not have those best candidates coming, will leave and will not want to stay in court. Besides, I'd like to point out one more thing. Given the repeated repetition I've heard here, politics is affecting the judiciary, but what does the judiciary do about it? That's what you have to do, because politics affects the judiciary, not the judiciary, and as long as it happens, we'll have this way of working. We'll always think about whether the best rival or not wanted to compete for the reason he tried a case in which he resented someone or didn't want to judge at all, which, of course, is not for some excuse, but it can be understood. That's what needs to determine us somewhere in the way we work. In addition, I would like to say that the High Judicial Council is not authorized by the authority to initiate resolution procedures. It's personally bigger and to let you know that the Personal Council worked very hard, with great effort, because there are quite a number of resolution requirements. It's pure information, but the High Council of Justice has nothing to do with this, since by law it's not his jurisdiction. I think the High Council has tried to explain to its proposals that we have now, as you have seen, because we have also put it in the procedure, give us the reasons why we have proposed a candidate. As we have done so, you will now, by your vote, decide whether or not you think it was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17870	Does a member of the government want a word, Minister Stojkovic? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that they agree with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups: the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Democratic Party and the Serbian Radical Party. I give my word to the People's Messenger Rajko Baralic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Miodrag Djidic. You gave up, Mr. Giddyup? Thank you. Let him then prepare for the word of MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17871	Mrs Petrovic-Skero, Mr Stojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Parliament has the responsibility to elect from the candidates offered the most representatives in courts and prosecutors, judges and managers of these bodies, and therefore our responsibility should be in line with that obligation. It's not easy when someone has to share justice or to organise those who share justice, if they're unargumentedly challenged. It is particularly unfortunate when a large number of people dispute someone's choice, and it is elected, then it leaves consequences in the business with respect to the parties, in relation to the public, etc. Therefore, with due care, with a sense of measure, for no personal reason whatsoever, we should approach this business and participate in this business in a safe and prescribed manner, which is one of the most important, in order to ensure the normal functioning of the judiciary and, in any way, not to endanger the legitimacy of Parliament and MPs. This is where we heard from the same suggestions different attitudes. That's normal, this is parliament. The intonation of individual speakers is such that it could be concluded that one of them is not telling the truth, because when the same man is given completely the opposite arguments, then those who do not participate in this are in the dilemma of how to plead, and that is the hardest part of the job here. In politics, there is an important dimension that should be consistency, so to colleagues who talk today about the political belonging of some others, I simply draw attention to how I had previously disputed here, and they chose, for example, for the district attorney – the secretary of the Executive Committee of the Democratic Party, who has no business capacity. With that in mind, she was led here in this House by a great battle. In the full power of the DOS, I was able to gain the confidence of 50 MPs for what I did here, and he was elected with only 11 votes of distinction, with some others brought out to break down the quorum, as Cedomir Jovanovic wanted. Every time we stop for this pay phone, our weapons are only arguments, there's no others, or an ugly intention if we don't have arguments, and we want to dispute something. I will talk about one proposal and two approaches when it comes to the proposal. I'll talk about Ratko Rabbit. Right now, it's not recommended that someone be a judge when he shoots high from a gun. I guess there are reasons that are logical and acceptable. By the way, Ratko Zecevic lost the election for the president of the municipality of Prokuplje only a few votes. It's not true that these people out there don't know what kind of man it is. If a statement of one whose life has been threatened is not enough, and some others know it better than he does, then I challenge the good intentions of those who make that argument. It was also an observation that Ratko Zecevic is a member of the SPS. Of course he's a member of the SPS and we don't argue. Of course, by law, if you were elected, it could no longer be. Would Ratko Rabbit have stayed in his heart? Be, don't have a dilemma like all yours. To remind you, we have accepted here the various senior DOS officials, and even now these government-making parties, we have chosen them in this assembly with an explanation that, if elected, they will step down from the party and resign to the post, say, a member of the Social Democracy Executive Board or some other, you know what I'm talking about, when we chose Mr. Sabic and others here. You know what, if someone belongs to someone, it's written in their heart. If anyone has access, it's form. When someone tells you, from today on, I'm not, Reverend, don't trust him, unless he runs off to another crew, there's enough like that. So I ask all those who can understand what I'm talking about, to support that choice. It won't be the end of the world even if it doesn't happen, but Ratko Zecevic would not be the last one whose choice of media is followed for a month in a way that fully corresponds to thought-out and orchestrated disqualification. Since he can't speak for himself here today, we speak for him. He expects it from us and expects it with full right. I remind you, they chose judges and prosecutors during Mr. Vladan Batic's ministry in a way that is not, as far as I'm concerned, of value. The entire families went to certain courts or prosecutors. Yes, the DOS Assembly did that, chose, past the existing criteria, people for the most responsible functions in the judiciary. I expect and trust the Ministry of Justice, and the High Council of Justice, and Mrs. Shkero. I'm sorry, Mrs. Skero, I have to say, we didn't vote for your choice in those years, but we voted now, and those who proposed to you then came out of the room not to stand up when you took the oath. So much for principle. That's how it was. I'm talking about the DS MPs. Every time someone here takes an oath, I'll stand up, because it's my duty and honor, whether or not I agree with his choice. So I ask all my colleagues to make a choice, with responsibility, so if you want to and with a sense of belonging to a particular group, we make a choice, where there are no innocents in this business. Whoever thinks, throw the stone in the air and wait. Everyone's gonna have a bit of a broken head. If only Ratko Zecevic is a problem, then Serbia's judiciary is reformed in a great, efficient, unsuspecting and extraordinary way. But it's not like that. I ask you to support this man's election, regardless of his emotions and whatever was the effect of the media over the past month. I have a feeling he's gonna do his job well, because on that controversial day, too, when he did what he shouldn't have done otherwise, he obviously saved someone's life.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17872	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that it wasn't easy to listen to the members of these previous regimes where others went and say that nothing was right until they came to power and those who said that the judiciary was extremely bad, perhaps something a little better than the previous years, but they forgot that they had just brought the judiciary into this mud they were talking about. First of all, although this is a debate about judges, I would take advantage of the opportunity to return to some of the topics that were on the agenda in the previous days, first of all to the Law on Court Taxes. We discussed court fees that were raised again a few days ago. The justification for this was the material position of the employees. We have heard here from Mr Stojkovic that if we want to improve the material position of judicial employees, that taxes are even higher and that this is a necessary condition for them to have higher salaries. However, this is not about all the employees, but only about the judges and prosecutors, although there is more, I would say, the real army of people who are not the holders of judicial functions, but without whom the judiciary could not function and whose work depends to a good degree on what kind of justice will be and what kind of urgency will be, how it will be announced, within what time the verdicts and everything else will be done. Unfortunately, only a day or two after that, Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic came here and in the budget rebalancing reduced these budget revenues that the Ministry of Justice and the employees of the judiciary will have, with an explanation that it has been estimated, on the basis of the funds spent so far in our judiciary, that too much funding is allocated to the judiciary and that it will not be spent. As a result, it is necessary to reduce the budget expenditure relating to the judiciary. Now I ask, who has deceived the MPs here and the employees of the judiciary, because you will admit that it is impossible to say at the same time, there is not enough funds in the budget and we need to increase the court fees, to improve the material position of employees, and that, at the same time, a day or two after that, the same government gets information that there is an surplus of funds. In addition to the increase in taxes, there is an surplus of funds and now the funds allocated to the Serbian judiciary will be even smaller. In this way, I think that it is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is those who will pay these increased court fees, who are deceived and that, in the end of the line, through court fees, some other expenditures that could not possibly be financed. As far as the judge's election is concerned, I must say that we will not, and I, in particular, enter directly and specifically on behalf of the proposed ones. Some have already been challenged by the representatives of the SRS and what is important is that the criteria we have managed to challenge some of the presidents of the courts, judges or deputy prosecutors were, above all, the expertise, the results of the work and the reputation that these people enjoy, both in court and in the environments in which they should be elected to certain positions. We have not managed any party interests or party interests. We believe that the judiciary should be independent, and I think that we are the only ones who can praise some concrete things in that field and say that even when we were in power, we have not had any influence in the judiciary by proposing our party activists as holders of judicial functions. None of you can give at least one specific example and say, here and there is a member, an activist, the chairman of the SRS municipal board, who is proposed as judge or president of the court. Or, at the same time, for the judge and for the president of the court, as was often the case especially during the previous government. What I would also point to and what is very important when it comes to what conditions should be done tomorrow by those we choose today or we will choose and that the minister should tell us, and perhaps the Supreme Court president, why at this point half of the Court of Justice is without electricity. I don't know if you know Mr. Minister, but in the Court of Justice, where the Belgrade District Court and several municipal courts and the D.A.'s office and everything else, there's no power in half the hall, there's only one plug in the courtroom that includes a typewriter, or a computer on which the trial records are typed. In a lot of courtrooms, there's no way to turn on the light. There's a similar situation in the halls, so there's no light in half the hall. The justification should be, or one excuse is that it seems that employees would not fire, or include air conditioning, because it increases electricity consumption and the system is unable to withstand more than a few climates in court. Then we need to see who is responsible for the spending of large funds and why so many climates have been obtained at all, who decided on what conditions these climates were obtained and instead of money being invested, huge money, in climates that could not be included and which could not serve the purpose for which they were obtained, would it be better if that central climate system that exists in the Palace of Justice was qualified and that in this way equal conditions for all employees were solved and this problem. This is how we get into a situation where some who, I say, are in higher positions should be in court first among equals and be able to use the climate. Some people can't do that. I think this is all pointless. The argument that was presented in the previous discussion, and I'm not going to say that someone, because it's like being a deputy prosecutor, because in the election for the president of the municipality, he's lost only a few votes, I don't think it stands. You should distinguish the elections for the presidents of the municipalities, and according to that criterion, those who were successful and elected should probably be adequate to be in their village or city presidents of municipalities and the presidents of courts and prosecutors. But for those who have not heard it so far, there is a system in Serbia to divide the authorities into executive, legislative and judicial. They should not, nor should they, in any way, be associated with the election for the holders of judicial functions, but those who, as members of a party, ran for the elections at that time should understand that the election card for the president of the municipalities is exactly the one and the ticket for the judicial exit. I'd add, in the end, you're saying there's a large number of resolutions for both judges and prosecutors who haven't come to the agenda yet. I think we should definitely hurry up in some cases, and I'm not gonna talk about names again, I'm not gonna talk about names that way, and it's not the manner of anyone in the SRS to put pressure on judges. It is important to know that these days in the First Municipal Court a verdict is made which obliges a journalist and a daily newspaper that, among other things, Natasa Kandic, on behalf of the injured honor and reputation, pays an amount of 200,000 dinars plus court costs. I think this information is so much scarier if it is known that courts have recognised mothers who have lost their children in Kosovo and Metohija in the name of suffering mental pain the same amount of 200,000 dinars. This way they were humiliated and all those mothers, a lot of things lost their meaning. Any judge who lives in Serbia, who has to move along the street and thinks there is some honor in Natasha Kandic and some reputation in the Serbian people, is one of the basics that should also point to thinking about the resolution of such a judge. It is indisputable that Natasa Kandic does not enjoy any reputation in the Serbian people. It would have been enough if that judge had listened to the first 10 people found in the hallway whether Natasa Kandic had or had no respect for the Serb people. I think that way, any ground would fall off if her honor was damaged and her reputation paid any compensation. That's it this time. I hope that some of these problems that we have pointed out will be resolved, however a little speedy and procedures, because we are witnessing that even after the entry into force of this new law on litigation and the law on executive procedure, unfortunately, there is no increased urgency. It must be noted, however, that some of the habits that existed earlier are so firmly rooted that it is still very slow to work on the execution of some judicial judgments. We hope this will contribute to improving the situation in the judiciary, but I think it should first and foremost be the government's minister's choice to return these funds that have been rebalanced in the judiciary. That it is not going to increase taxis, unless it was already necessary, but that, if there are some resources that are not necessary to improve the material position of the legal holders, these funds are used to motivate other judicial employees to stay there, work, increase their labour efforts and bring all of this together to ensure that the judiciary is in the same period as we all formally advocate in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17874	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Miljko Četrović, and then the Messenger of the people Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17875	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if we want to reform the judiciary, then we need to take this reform seriously, and it would have to be looked at in the depoliticalization of the judiciary at first. Obviously, throughout history, the government has always grabbed on how it will grab the judicial structure and the judicial authority, that it has it under control and that it decides how the judicial authorities will work and who will be elected to office in the judiciary. In practice, in the last few years, the most dangerous thing for you is when you start accusing and accusing individuals of justice. When they begin to submit anonymous reports against each other, they also deliver them to MP groups or individuals without these statements and complaints being thoroughly verified. The most dangerous thing to do is to write a letter to one of the parliamentary groups or to the president of the Assembly or to a national MP, and not to offer appropriate arguments that make up the sin of a candidate. So it stays unchecked until the end. If judicial reform is to be carried out, and should be done, in any case, it must be taken care of who comes to what function. The President of the Court depends on how the court will function, whether the court will be well-organised, whether all judges will be equally burdened, whether judges will be able to work on a particular referendum, whether criminal, or judicial, or out-of-party, according to their professional qualifications. However, little care is taken about the urgency of certain courts, and this urgency would have to be followed in any case by the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. It should change the rules for the judiciary. I think that the Supreme Court and the Justice Ministry should be given greater authority, because I believe that the Supreme Court and the Justice Ministry are originally more aware of what kind of candidate and what other court is in order of urgency and efficiency. I have more confidence in these two institutions, therefore, in the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice. But as for the Personal Council and the High Council for Justice, especially when it comes to the High Judicial Council, I think there must be a filter that can't go through a proposal that will obviously be challenged in front of parliament and that the High Council for Justice has passed. This is what should be perfected and it should be taken into account that regulations are changed under the High Judicial Council. The biggest problem is that we don't have the urgency of every court in front of us. I know that today, in fact, on the day of the vote, maybe those whose court of urgency is lagging behind the average and there are no envious results and there are no thousands of pending cases and there are objects dating back to 10 or 15 years. The biggest problem is v.d. the situation in the judiciary. V.D. The presidents of the court are one of the big problems. It's the most problematic institute and situation if you have the president of the court as acting. He is acting as President of the Court three, four, or I don't know how many years a court takes place, and now he comes before parliament and now Parliament is choosing him as president. I repeat, the President of the Court has much to do with how the administration works and how every office works, how it does what referendum, how a criminal referendum works, how litigation and out-of-parony works. If you had a president of a court who looks like a tourist, who doesn't miss a single counseling, and if his work results were like that, he wouldn't deserve to work in the judiciary anyway. You have the presidents of the courts or some carriers who don't leave the bar during the day. You'll see them in cafes and cafes day and night. He can't do that. I won't name them because I expect those in charge, and they have better and more precise data on such cases, to talk and talk about it. The SRS has challenged a number for the presidents of the courts. That is what Mr Krasic was talking about, but the main problem is that the judiciary must be kept in mind that the judiciary is depolitical and that the parties raise their hands from the judiciary. We'll have a better situation in the judiciary. The choice in the judiciary will be more kudikamo quality, more objective, and not to be that, imagine in one court 40 judges, none reportedly reported to the competition, on the ad. Is it that the President of the Court has now reached a consensus to be elected, it is one of the debateable issues. Secondly, you will have cases that in one court where there are 12 or 15 judges, for the candidate who passed these institutions voted two or three. You have such a case in Novi Sad – Trade Court. Last time, Zjajic Jasmina was proposed, which was mostly voted by employees, so the judges who work with her, who know her 27 years as a judge, who know whose decisions are absolutely correct and that more judicial functions confirm and accept them. You are now proposing Vlajkovic Velimir, who has a large number of objections, especially when it comes to bankruptcy and the formation of bankruptcy councils. The bankrupt majority is formed by Mr. Vlajkovic, and the judge who is in his solution for a bankruptcy judge is a year on sick leave – the doctor's written documentation proves that this man has been on leave for a year and that in this case he cannot participate as a judge. Secondly, you have problematic bankruptcy, which had to be checked: "The Unity" from Bac, DDOR "Trafficking", "The Animal Transport" in Vienna, which is a matter of serious objections and objections to the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings. We also have sales contracts on immovable property and on the purchase of property under bankruptcy, for which some have not invested the 'yellow bank', and the contract is concluded and such a contract prevents the realisation of bankruptcy, and the buyer has not obliged to pay the price for the purchased immovable property. We believe that in the judiciary, as far as the material situation is concerned, this is not exactly what the proposal said, as SRS MP Sarovic said, when he said that there was a need to improve the material position of the judiciary and that this was the goal and motive of the proposal and the adoption of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on judicial fees. It will not be possible to push through the fact that it was intended to improve the material position of the judiciary if taxes are raised. If that's the case, it's okay to raise your taxes. However, these fees do not go to the judiciary. It goes to 60% of the judiciary, and 40% goes to the government's budget. Why? The judiciary's budget should be established and the judiciary deployed its resources to its institutions. Only in this way can the most just improve the material position of the judiciary. Secondly, justice should be more segregated because the judiciary deserves it. It's a very responsible government. I'm saying, the biggest government in the state is the judiciary. You've seen the judiciary sentence - 40 years in prison. Who can do that? So the court fees should go 100% to the judiciary. In this way, the judiciary would improve its material position. It should not be allowed for the Minister of Finance to have in his purse the fees and the fees available to him, and the judicial authorities, the Supreme Court, to ask the Minister to approve certain costs for the payment of jurors, witnesses, gasoline, heating, etc., or to ask him when to transfer the funds for the payment of personal incomes to the employees of the judiciary. That shouldn't allow the finance minister to have anything. Judicial fees - to the judiciary. Secondly, to form a new budget in the judiciary, to keep that budget under the leadership of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, to get the judiciary to decide, not to let the moths of someone who doesn't deserve anything. We said that these taxes are high, most citizens won't be able to easily appear before the court to exercise their rights. There are thousands of lawsuits, they cost a lot. I'm not inclined to believe that everyone from the court is reporting to the court. No, there are a lot of citizens who come with full rights and need to exercise their rights. Therefore, under more favourable conditions, they need to be able to do so. Here, take a simple sales contract, the tax went to heaven, or for example. One lawsuit worth 100,000 dinars should be paid a fee of 10,000, not to mention appeal, judgment, etc. That's high taxes. I think it was meant to be taken into account with that tax and to allow citizens to exercise their rights in court under normal conditions. What happens in a year or two? Once again, we will have such a situation that the proposer will come forward with a proposal to re-enlarge court fees. It doesn't have to do that, because it won't increase the standard of our citizens. For this reason, I believe that judicial reform must be brought to life and that serious steps are taken by all institutions in the country that influence and can influence the fact that our judiciary is truly built by the judiciary and that it has a certain reputation, efficiency, and that we are not in a situation as we used to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17876	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Bosko Ristic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17877	Dear People's MPs, today we have on the agenda one part and more decisions, which are proposed by the holders of judicial functions. Listening to a one-time statement by the President of the Supreme Court - Mrs. Shkero, I was under the impression that the situation in the Serbian judiciary was v.d. condition, v.d. the situation is with regard to the President of the Courts, and in particular the procedure for the resolution of a large number of judicial office holders at the Personal Council is under way. It bothers me, as a MP, that after several months of seven or eight decisions we have on the agenda, and that there remains a large number of decisions, as is said here, which will be proposed for September – the appointment of the holders of judicial functions. If most of the presidents of the courts expired in June, could the Serbian judiciary function with the perpetrators of their duties? It was mentioned here on October 6, 2000. Many in Serbia know the consequences of October 5th and 6th respectively, if this is about alluding to the measures taken in the Serbian judiciary on October 6th and the next days and months. By setting up revolutionary presidents of courts, judges, prosecutors and deputy prosecutors, we have come to the condition that DOS has effectively committed a coup against the Serbian judiciary, setting up unprofessional and unskilled, but only party-defined people, who were for DOS, or DOS coalition, the Democratic Party, and particularly the Democratic Party. There were few cases that, by their will or not, under pressure, many judges and legal holders had to join the Democratic Party of Vladan Batic in order to survive in these judicial functions. Unfortunately, the situation has not changed much since the coming of the democratic bloc since January 2004. Even so, with the bitter experience that the Serbian judiciary and justice in Serbia have had since the DOS's arrival in power, the party's influence, which now consists of the democratic bloc, it is clear when it comes to proposing judicial officials. That is why this re-election or appointment procedure cannot end in one normal way in short and legal terms. That's why this has been stalling for months. It's about blackmail, trade, contracts, and that's why it's been proposed for months, and it's been being considered here that the National Assembly is also proposing decisions to appoint legal holders. The President of the Supreme Court said that the High Council should take care of the quality of candidates who are proposed for the holders of judicial functions and that members of the Committee on Justice and Administration should take care of dignity. It is incomprehensible that certain proposals come here in front of the National Assembly, in front of MPs, in front of the public of Serbia, and that MPs should point out that a certain candidate proposed by the High Council of Justice is not worthy not to be President of the Court, but is not worthy of judicial office either. It is regrettable, however, and it would not be possible for such a proposal to pass by the High Council of Justice and for MPs through various channels to determine whether a proposed candidate for the President of the Court or for a judge is worthy of the role of the President of the Court without speaking to the judge. I have here one piece of information about a meeting of members of the Justice and Administration Committee with the High Council of Justice, held on 15 April 2005. Nine conclusions were reached at that meeting. What was done after these conclusions were reached – the President of the Supreme Court said the Rules of Procedure on the criteria and rules of procedure for proposing legal holders had been adopted. As it is proposed here today, I do not believe that these criteria are applied, both in terms of quality and procedure, and that the results are achieved that the judiciary or the holders of judicial functions work better, and that the citizens of Serbia come faster to justice in Serbia. Unfortunately, trust in courts and the judiciary is getting less and less. It cannot be or is very difficult to come to justice with extremely long procedures, imposing additional burdens by increasing court fees. This is where SRS MPs spoke, if the surplus is in the budget, which Minister Dinkic here expressed for two hours, why they had to increase court fees, to improve the material position of judges and other employees in the judiciary. Why is this part of the funds not defined from surpluses to improve the material position of judicial employees? It is only an additional burden or a disabling of Serbian citizens to come to justice, as they are pressured by the difficult social situation in Serbia, they have a lot of obstacles, and cannot put an end to the end. Is it possible that what I was saying, that the proposal which has so far served as the President of the District Court in Uzic was proposed by the High Council of Justice and that after four years of performing that function, and that this proposal should come to the Committee on Justice and Administration, in spite of many written evidence, material facts about the work of the President of the Court of Justice, and that of the District Court in Uzic, because it is the District Court, to be re-proposed as the President of the District Court. As a National MP from the Kings, I was in a sense obliged to receive a judge of the Užica District Court, with documentation and facts, and all this came to the Committee on Justice and Administration, to speak with him and to give me an indication of what this President of the District Court had done and worked on that function. Is it possible for the High Judicial Council to continue to tolerate the President of the Trade Court, i.e. his work, and it is the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, Kljajevic. Does the High Council of Justice have the strength to replace Kljajevic, given everything that has been going on and what is still going on in the Trade Court? A trade court in Belgrade, by jurisdiction and real and local, covers half of Serbia. In some previous exhibitions, I mentioned only the bankruptcy of the company "Rad" and the setting up of a bankruptcy manager and pressure, i.e. the order of the Minister of Capital Investments to change and to appoint someone with the name and last name for the deputy bankruptcy manager. It is a huge property the company "Rad" has in Belgrade. So, it's about huge immovableities, construction sites, all of it's made up and calculated. It is property of several tens of millions of euros. This property should be hijacked, robbed and made possible by these newly-roasted businessmen, or criminals, through bankruptcy to that property. I must mention, the minister is not here, he is familiar with illegal work, I mean the president of the King's Court and his work, that's Zlatan Dimitric. There were promises, I didn't participate in those talks, he was probably on the party line, and probably in the post of minister, that the President of the Trade Court in the King would be resolved. However, the re-election process was pending, i.e. the end of this term. These are some examples. Now I'm just going to look back on doing the prosecutor's office a little bit. For crime in Serbia, which is growing from day to day without legal proceedings, since the application for crimes committed, investigations and judicial proceedings, one of the main culprits is the prosecution. The example is both the Municipal and the District Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, and the greatest responsibility is on the state prosecutor of the Republic of Serbia. Many of these affairs only appear and serve for daily-political purposes to distract Serbian citizens on electronic and written media for a few days. When that affair is exhausted, then another one is invented without the Republic Public Prosecutor reacting at all, even though it is in the so-called the affairs mention the names and last names, the actions made and the huge amounts of money or property. What happened to Jelasic, many before Jelasic? Simply, there's only silence from the Republic and District Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, not to speak any further. I'm going to mention an example to you in the King. These figures, mentioned throughout Serbia -- one, two, three or fivem euros, are not large amounts, it is 10.5m dinars. The DOS authorities in the King concluded a contract with one private passenger, Trujic, for the transport of vehicles that were illegally parked on the streets of the city of Kralje. The contract was normally concluded contrary to any interest of the municipality of Kraljevo, contrary to the damage to the interest of the municipality of Kralje and the citizens of the city of Kralje. The privateer performed this activity for about two and a half years. He didn't pay any debts to the state or the municipality for two and a half years. In conjunction with the Public Cleanness and MUP, Kraljevo had two spiders, i.e. vehicles that carried illegally parked vehicles from 1600 to 1800 hours, within 2400 hours. When finally, after a six-month fight, we acted as a parliamentary group of SRS, the Kingdom Assembly decided to break up this contract with Trujic and to initiate criminal proceedings for damages committed to the municipality, the state - the Public Prosecutor's Office rejected the criminal charges as if there were no elements of the crime. It's an example of what's going on in Serbia's robbery. How do we function in trade courts? I'll go back to the robbery that happens every day through the so-called. Privatisation. Yesterday there was a speech here when the budget rebalance and surplus that will take place in 2005 and the privatisation revenue was explained. This is no income if you sell someone's property or your property, and you say, "It is an income." It's property that's been turned into some kind of money. I will mention the example of "Paljoprome"-Kingeva, the privatisation of the company. The majority owner sold 60% of the Poljoprom property in a very short time. The funds he received focused on his private account at the Meridian Bank in Novi Sad. In addition to the great torment of the jobless employees, conspired by the majority owner and the criminal charges filed against him, the district public prosecutor's office has reached a solution to determining detention. The detention took three months. When detention was due to be extended, a solution came from Serbia's Supreme Court that there was no need for detention anymore. The majority owner returned to Poljo Transport and continued to be the majority owner and to chican the workers. Two buildings of the Poljopromet, created by workers for decades, bought the Meridian Bank and opened her counters in the King in 15 days. There is crime, financial crime, banking crime, which has been extremely successfully reformed, as Minister Dinkic said yesterday, with criminals who have entered privatisation. Now there's no way he's going to arrest that so-called. The majority owner left PoljoTransport, rather than awaiting a judicial ruling by the Trade Court in Belgrade on the termination of the contract, and this will certainly take another year, and no first-degree decision has been made yet. The contract termination agency's application was filed on 4 August 2004. This is the justice that the courts in Serbia are carrying out, and now these workers are "Palompromising", not to mention other companies from the King, "Froker", "Auto Transport", "Electron", helpless and have no one to turn to. They went to both the MUP and the prosecution, to one court, to another court, to address the Trade Court of Belgrade here, but there is no justice. There's no justice for what they've been creating for 30 or 40 years, because that government within DOS and this current government are doing the same - so-called. A quick privatisation to kidnap everything that has been created in Serbia for decades, and to kidnap those who have the least right to participate in the property. I hope, however, that in the first extraordinary parliamentary elections, Serbian citizens will decide in their own interest and choose the authority that will take care of them, and will not choose a government that will only take care of itself, take care of the personal interests and interests of the groups they must represent. In the end, I would ask if it is possible for the American ambassador to condition whether the special prosecutor will continue his post or not. If that is true, then we have nothing to talk about, that the state of Serbia is a legal state and an independent state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17878	The People's Messenger Bosko Ristic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17879	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Court, the Honorable Representative of the State's Prosecutor's Office, we have, whenever the subject is of the judiciary's agenda, whether it is a set of judicial laws that enables the choice and resolution of judicial holders and the organisation of the judiciary in Serbia – indicated that reforms of the Serbian judiciary are necessary. The Serbian judiciary is not in a good situation, is not in a good position. First of all, because a longer number of years have come into play, primarily party personnel in the judiciary, who did not have professional knowledge and professional characteristics that would meet the high criteria that each individual who performs a public office in the judiciary should have. There have been social changes, in 2000 it was a turning point in being ready for society to make changes within the judiciary, to allow it as much independence and independence as possible. We tried to amend a set of laws, which represented a compromise between the political forces in this House at the time, to come up with a better solution. We have established the basis for the fundamental division of power into legislative, judicial and executive. We have passed a set of laws that, in my personal belief, was not the happiest solution, but has made a major step in preparing conditions for judicial reform. At that time, a society of judges appeared with their good ideas and the desire for reforms in the judiciary to be resolved, above all, by advocacy of judicial officials with as little interference as possible by the executive authority or some other power centres that have leveraged the government or have an impact on social and political movements in Serbia. Someone will resent us, and we have done our own analysis, that we have not done enough in judicial reform, that institutions do not have enough democratic capacity, that professional selection of personnel has not been carried out, primarily in the judiciary, and then in all other institutions and that the judiciary is not yet immune to the pressures of political or other species. The question is what needs to be done, what is it that needs to be done for Serbia's judiciary to really be independent. First of all, it is necessary to repair a set of judicial laws that defines the way in which the judiciary is elected, to advance within the judiciary and to tighten the criteria for selecting the holders of judicial functions in that procedure. It is also necessary to carry out a permanent evaluation of the work of certain judicial authorities, to carry out their comparison, to see their efficiency in protecting citizens' rights, to see whether in court they are tried in a way that provides effective protection of human rights. All those who cannot comply with these criteria, consciously or unconsciously, because they are under the influence of those centres of power that have vital interests in politics, in institutions and who want to put these institutions under their influence, are free of the judiciary of these pressures. On the other hand, those who are unconsciously contributing to such a poor condition, which is because they are either not professional enough or are not ready and brave enough to deal with major problems burdening the Serbian judiciary. The fact is that there are still a large number of judicial officials elected on the basis of party membership in the Serbian judiciary, based on their ideological determination. On the other hand, the fact is that assumptions and mechanisms have been created to bring about reform within the judiciary itself. In 2000, it was this break-in year, when politics had a direct impact on changes in the judiciary. This should be the zero point from which the rise in reforms moves, and it cannot be a model and the way politics will change the situation in the judiciary. That moment was necessary, because, according to my personal assessment, and according to the assessment of the party to which I belong, as well as other wider social layers, there was not enough democratic capacity within the judiciary to bring it forward and choose such a necessary and necessary reform. Absolutely democratic capacity and awareness that the judiciary does not belong to parties and oligarchs in Serbia. However, it was not possible, by giving authority to the VSP, which was elected in the first instance in the way it was chosen, above all, it was more like the appointment of members of the VSP, regardless of what it was about the holders of judicial functions, it was not an expression of the judicial authority within the judiciary. And then I advocated, although I was a member of the party in power, which had a dominant influence on the executive power and on the legislators of the law in this House, that the members of the VSP were elected in direct and secret elections between the ranks of judges of all levels, because I believe that this is democratic and that it provides essential independence and independence of judges and courts. However, in the situation in which the judiciary was, we would not get a democratic judicial authority that is ready for reforms, precisely because a large number of judicial holders, particularly those who were in the seats of the president or prosecutors, were ideologically defined and opposed to changes within the judiciary. That was that zero point. However, since that zero point in 2000 and beyond, there has been a large number of choices by judicial officials, so that the judiciary is refreshed. The elected holders of judicial functions have democratic perceptions and society organisations, and state organisations, who are aware of the position of the judiciary should have. Also, the courage of judicial officials to resist pressures is a very important feature when we choose the holders of judicial functions. We are burdened with a single dualism, a double system of choice of judges. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure say one thing, and the Law on Judges and the Law on VSP says the other. That dualism pushes against one another. The constitution says that judges are elected by the National Assembly, the Assembly's committee is proposing them, at least so far it's been in the Rules of Procedure, and now the Rules of Procedure has been amended, so the Committee only declares itself on the VSP proposal. However, this dualism and this constitutional ambiguity are devastating by the Serbian judiciary, precisely because it is not known who is choosing judges, who is contesting them, where the process will begin and where the election process of judicial officials will end. The VSP, which has a double composition, as opposed to whether judges or prosecutors are elected, has not yet received its role and still has no social function, so that all of us who are in favour of judicial reform would do so. Why? First of all, the method of proposing on the VSP itself, its composition, communication between the VSP members with the base that selected it or which it represents in the VSP is not at a good and necessary level. First of all, you have a VSP in which the minister of justice is a member of the VSP, who can also propose to vote on the VSP for proposals, which is the direct influence of the executive authority on the views and proposals that the VSP will have. It's an objective fact. I'm not talking about the minister's behaviour in the VSP, I'm talking about the minister being a member of the VSP, and that he conveys, as an expression of one political will, the position of politics in the VSP. The minister may say that he does not do so, but since he is implementing his party's policy that has led him to the post of justice minister, he certainly has politically colored positions in the VSP and will have any future minister who will function as a member of the VSP. The standard and ambition in developed democratic states is precisely that the judicial council consists exclusively of judges who will elect and resolve judges, that the choice and resolution of judges be within the judiciary, independent of external influences. But these VSP members must also be elected in a democratic manner and must be genuine and essential representatives of the judicial authority. In our society, it has not yet been defined what the judicial authority means and who is the judicial authority. Is that a representative of the Supreme Court, as the highest court in the state? Is it like the president of the VSP, who chooses and resolves, where that power is just sublimed within the judiciary, to propose and choose judges? Is it the judicial authority or the judicial authority the total position of the judiciary in the constitutional justice system? I think it is the judicial authority – the judicial authority is characterized by the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges when deciding to resolve the disputes in which they participate. It's the judicial authority. There is no division of judicial authority in the way some imagine it, where judicial authority can be bickered with legislation and enforcement, facing attitudes. Their position is defined by the Constitution and by the system laws. Let's move on to a specific situation. The VSP continues to have a position, according to these legal solutions, to propose candidates for the election of judges and prosecutors in Serbia. Based on what? Based on the criteria they've established themselves. These criteria respect past work, judicial internships, decision-making efficiency, dispute resolution, percentage of abolished cases, abolished judgments and other criteria that should reflect the quality of candidates. It is certainly also the quality of study, the length of study and some other criteria that indicate that the candidate will enjoy public reputation, in the middle of which he will share justice. But is that always the case when it comes to the suggestions we get from the VSP? Very often, the Justice Committee, when considering candidates' proposals, has much more knowledge of the quality of candidates than the level of knowledge it has of the VSP. Very often, inconsistencies in the assessment of individual criteria are indicated. Very often, weaker candidates are proposed compared to those who have applied. Candidates who have a double longer period of study than those who have fallen off are proposed. Candidates who have twice the number of suspended convictions are proposed than those who have dropped out. Also proposed are candidates who have been politically damaged, who have shown their political belongings in an extreme way. Candidates whose behaviour has elements of criminal acts are proposed for which they are prosecuted by official duty. The question arises, why these candidates are not prosecuted, why such candidates are not subject to criminal proceedings that would end with a conviction. I will present you with specific cases concerning the proposed candidates to which this objection applies. On the other hand, in Serbia, there are a very large number of courts that serve as court presidents. There are courts where the President of the High Court, before the term of office, determines the acting officer, which is against the law and inadmissible. I'm going to make these specific examples. We have disputed such proposals on the Justice Committee because it is our business and legal opportunity and authority. The MPs expressed their personal views, presented their personal knowledge, the knowledge that citizens have in the middle from which they come, but also the parties disputed the choice of individual candidates, parties that have the right in parliament. The parties do not have the right to comment on court decisions outside parliament, they do not have the right to dispute with judges in proceedings pending. The parties have the right to deal with the functioning of Serbia's judiciary, to point to its ineffectiveness, to point to a poor position, and above all to employees in the judiciary. Here I think of those who are not in judicial functions, who have poor salaries and the weakest officials in Serbia who have enormous responsibility. The parties are here to appeal to the state of justice, through a change of law, through the definition of a larger judiciary budget and, finally, I think that the political goal of all modern parties in this parliament is to elect an independent judiciary budget. An independent court budget will ensure judicial independence, ensure a better level of meeting the material needs of the judiciary and ensure better functioning of Serbia's judiciary. Why does it matter? This is a complex problem, because funding in the judiciary that is in the hands of the Justice Ministry can provide an unequal position for judges and sues before the law, i.e. with regard to the funds intended for the functioning of these prosecutors and courts. There is no criterion by which the Ministry of Justice distributes funds to courts. The question is whether it is the basis for abuse and political pressure. Will individual courts that are equal to the number of cases, equal to the number of judges who hire, receive equal means to function? Experience has shown that individual courts have different treatment in budget allocations. I have repeatedly asked the Justice Committee to report on the financial control of all courts and prosecutors in Serbia, to show us in a transparent manner how it meets the requirements for funding of courts and prosecutors, which are criteria that define the level of funds allocated to courts and prosecutors. Is that party membership and party closeness? Is this the obedience of individual holders of judicial functions that define the volume of funds that is channelled from their budget? So far, I have never received an answer on the principle that funds are distributed from the budgets to courts and prosecutors. I had examples that I referred to on the Committee on Justice – some courts live happily, by 40 employees or holders of judicial functions from one court going to counseling at the Kopalnik or in Budva. No judge can be sent from other courts to perfectment. So far, the minister has not explained how the funds are defined, has not shown us how the court's requests for the allocation of these funds appear, because funding of courts far from the public can provide a different position for certain judges and prosecutors and thus ensure a direct impact on the holders of judicial functions, and above all I think of the presidents, or public prosecutors who are at the head of these judicial institutions. That's one thing. The other thing is the performers of duty. The term of office shall be determined when the term of office of the current president, i.e. on the basis of the assessment and evaluation of the President of the High Court, i.e. the Chief Prosecutor. What are these criteria, and how are those in charge? Does the public know? Is the public aware of how performers of duty are determined? Although I've been professionally tied to the judiciary for 21 years, I've never been able to disclose that formula for appointing and placing in office on the basis of the will of a direct senior official. On the other hand, let's say Valev's example. District Court President Dusko Djukanovic, still the current President of the District Court in Valjevo, has been given the solution to appoint Mr Obradovic, the District Court judge in Valjevo, as acting during his term of office. Is that legal? Is that right? Absolutely not. And if it were right, then in the office of the President of the Court would be two chairs, so two of them could sit there and run the court. It's not possible. What does that essentially mean? Basically, it is a pressure on the current president, where he was told before the term of office that he would not be elected, he was told not to apply to the post of president and that there is no way he was not wanted, because what would otherwise mean when you appoint someone as acting during the term of office. I made a public call to the team on the occasion, and the President of the Supreme Court has reached a solution that appoints the performer in Valjevo as the chairman of the District Court. After both the candidate and the public objection, the President of the Supreme Court reached a conclusion amending the decision on the appointment of the perpetrators and delaying that decision, or its execution, is delayed until July 25th of this year. The law has been broken again. Is it possible to say in advance that when the term of office expires, someone will be appointed as acting officer? Is that possible? Will the President of the Supreme Court who has the authority to do so after the term of office of the President of the District Court be in place, whether he will be in a position to bring it in. I'm talking about a clean legal situation here, and I think all MPs will understand what I'm talking about. The intention of setting someone up as acting during the term of office is the President of the Supreme Court. She's here, and she'll probably explain it to us for this pay phone. I'm not going to go into her reasons, but I think by objective criteria it's not good, it creates destabilisation and disrupts the independence of the courts. In addition to Serbia's judiciary having independence from external influence, there must be independence of judges within the judicial system. The judge must be independent of his president. The President of the lower court must be independent of the President of the High Court, except in the cases provided for by law. Only in the legal cases provided for, in a procedure prescribed by the President of the High Court, can he order something to the president of the lower court. He must never interfere in deciding where the judge is independent. When you tell a judge before the term of office that someone else will be in his place after the term of office, that means pressure. Such court presidents are becoming addicted, dependent on the fear of being replaced, perhaps resolved. Let the President of the Supreme Court explain why. Otherwise, as regards a concrete proposal for a candidate for the President of the District Court in Valjevo, which I mentioned, it is about a man who participated in the conduct of an investigation against NATO chiefs in a case that has never been completed and is still in a drawer in the institutions of the judicial system. On the Justice Committee, I presented the number of cases under which the investigation was conducted. The investigation has never been terminated, either by suspension or by prosecution. The reason not to propose the current District Court president in Valjevo, according to the Supreme Court president, was that he had no good results. They took care of criteria and always proposed those candidates who have had good results in the past. At the Justice Committee, I read the Bill of the Supreme Court of Serbia and showed it to both the justice minister and the Supreme Court president. I showed a bulletin for 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004 and by which bulletin is the District Court in Valjevo, one of the best courts in Serbia. I've read the percentage of completed items. Take a look at and compare from the newsletter situation in other courts in Serbia, so you will see that some judge president who has no results, whose court is in disarray for poor governance, is being re-proposed for a candidate for president and assembly on him should be declared, and Mr Dusko Djukanovic, who belongs to the strongest court presidents, who has one of the best courts in Serbia according to the Supreme Court bulletin, does not receive support from the High Council of Justice, although he has the support of colleagues, although the District Court presidents supported him for the election of this judicial post. That's one example. On the other hand, some candidates who are enormously politically exposed, which is inadmissible to the judiciary, are also proposed for a high judicial post. An example – Mr. Zecevic in Prokuplje (he was an SPS MP), who participated in an extreme way in the display of his political views, which in the opposition rally in Prokupje blew up bullets from personal weapons, where all the elements of the crime of endangering security, causing general danger, perhaps some serious crime, was also proposed by the High Council. Therefore, such candidates become serious candidates for the election to the public prosecutor's office. The DS clearly opposed this choice. In public, we have made arguments to remind the citizens of Serbia of this behavior. We have, for example, a proposal from the candidate – Mr Bozovic for the District Attorney in Belgrade. The proposal for Mr Bozovic came in the evening of the meeting of the Justice Committee. The members of the Justice Committee were not familiar with this proposal. We received a proposal for Mr Bozovic to the district prosecutor in Belgrade, i.e. a parliamentary club, after a debate was concluded in parliament. I asked the Justice Committee to postpone its statement on the choice of this candidate, because I felt it was necessary to get acquainted with his biography, so that we could discuss this proposal in quality. The proposal was rejected. I resent the fact that the Justice Committee has discussed all these candidates in a couple of sessions, although these proposals have accumulated three or four months ago. Somehow, there was a big rush to the debate. Speaking of Mr Bozovic, MPs were probably expected not to be familiar enough with his biography. The Justice Committee and this assembly have covered up the fact that Bozovic was suspended until January of this year from Jagodina's municipal prosecutor's post, that illegal weapons have been found during a search of his apartment, but that he has not been prosecuted so far. I received a reply from the minister of justice, he says, "Why did you not judge him?" MPs don't judge, but it's a good question for the D.A.'s office. Also, with that question, we have the answer to the state of the D.A.'s office? Does our prosecution have sufficient independence, independence in persecuting the perpetrators of criminal acts, or is there a selection? A concrete example speaks of the existence of selection and the advancement of just those who have such outbursts in their conduct that have a qualification of crime. I think it is inadmissible and it has never been in the history of the Serbian judiciary, even when it was directly influenced by a party for decades. On the other hand, assumptions have been made that here at the Assembly we are openly talking about each candidate, that we are saying about every candidate that he does not deserve to be elected to this public office, if there are clear and evident reasons for that. The reasons for the notorious fact are clear. A notorious or universally known fact, transmitted by all the newspapers, all the televisions and all the media. I can't understand that the High Council of Justice, either in the judicial system or in the prosecution system, didn't know about all these facts that all Serbian citizens know about. However, it is obvious that there is an intention, and it is obvious that the qualitative circumstance, the circumstance similar to that of the candidate qualification, is precisely the fact that the congregation majority who chose certain candidates did. Very often we hear from the minister of justice that the Democrats, or the majority of the assembly in 2001, chose individual candidates and that is the reason and basis for why their work so far is expressed. On the other hand, anyone suspended at a time when the DS did most of these political parties from 2000 to 2004 get the opportunity to progress within the judiciary again, although they do not deserve it on objective criteria. Obviously, the vengeful attitude towards DS is a circumstance that favours candidates for proposing in this House by the High Council of Justice in which the Ministry of Justice plays a dominant role. I challenged some names on the Justice Committee. Let me argue with the argument, for another I thought I had arguments, but I kept checking on what kind of candidates it was. For some of the disputed candidates, I later checked, received assurances that some local objections to their work did not stand. That's why, because of my responsibility for selecting a judicial officer, I'm going to withdraw some disputes, because I've been given arguments against these disputes. In order for the minutes from this session to remain clearly defined who I challenge and who I do not dispute on behalf of the DS, in agreement with DS representative Djidic, who spoke before me, we have defined some of the proposals that we have disputed, which we will give up. There is Mr. Djidic, who will confirm, if necessary, this agreement by the DS Parliament Club. As for the dispute, I challenge Vojik Simic, president of Belgrade's First Municipal Court, Gordan Mihajlovic, president of Belgrade's Second Municipal Court, Nada Mihajlovic, president of the Third Municipal Court in Belgrade. I challenge the candidate for District Court President in Valjev Dragan Obradovic. I withdraw the opposition on behalf of the DS for Velimir Vlajkovic, a candidate for the Trade Court in Novi Sad. There remains a dispute between individual MPs from the DS Club, which is their right under the law and by the Rules of Procedure. The MP is free to make his decision. I challenge Goran Savic for the president of the High Court of Commerce in Belgrade. I withdraw Vesna Milojkovic's opposition to the Municipality court in Despotovac. I challenge Danica Mihajlovic for the Municipality court in Bruce. I am withdrawing the dispute I gave for Recep Ademovic, president of the Tutin Municipal Court. I'm contesting Peter Mohan for the City Court in Novi Sad. I challenge Svetlana Gaco for the Municipal Court in Povorevec. I challenge Borislav Pupovac for the Municipal Court in Sremska Mitrovica. I challenge basil Palibrk for the Municipal Court in Priboj. I challenge Acu Vukicevic for the Municipal Court in Cačka. I am withdrawing the opposition for Miroslav Vojinovic in Pozarevec. I'm withdrawing the challenge I've given for Paul Kolar in Backo Planca. Today, I further challenge Maria Šushnjevic for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. I am withdrawing the opposition to Olivera Jevremovic for the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Turkey. I'm withdrawing the challenge for Nenad Srzentic in Negotin. I challenge Ratko Zecevic for the municipality's prosecutor's office in Kursumlia. It's a definitive list of candidates who have been challenged, or whose disputes we have withdrawn. Given that I have made certain arguments on the reasons for challenging individual candidates, I expect that the proposing representatives will have the courage to make public why they voted in favour of these candidates in the High Council of Justice, i.e. why the High Council of Justice gave priority to these candidates who, by general criteria, do not deserve to be candidates for these functions in the judicial bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17880	Thank you, Mr. Ristic. Before Mr Krasic's replica, the word has a minister, which is in line with the Rules of Procedure, which he says – explicitly the government's representative gets the word as soon as he asks for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17881	It's not a replica, I just want to give some explanations. It is said here that the Constitution or Rules of Procedure are being violated. As far as I know, according to the Constitution today, the Assembly is choosing judges and prosecutors. You're discussing it today, and you're going to choose. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I guess it had to be amended, if the law stipulated that the High Council would be a proposing rather than a committee. I don't see where the Constitution is broken. On the contrary, I think it's okay. We've finally brought the Rules of Procedure into line with the law. It has been said not to see the courts financed. They have their own items, are exactly scheduled for courts, and this ministry is just a mediator, signing consent when they, as a third signature, send what needs to be taken from the Treasury. As for the claim made that a Jagodina prosecutor was found a weapon, and we didn't respond, it was brought to the Committee. I didn't hate to ask for official information. It's a lie that's been made. I have confirmation of stolen items. One gun was taken away, not to read the numbers, there's a gun list about the license to carry, under the number of the team and team, an armed list of that and that. It's the same with the other gun, completely identical. The fact is that it's a person who was suspended, but it didn't hate me to get it, I got it here, he started a procedure with a certain Petrovic who they call "coca car" for a forgeries degree. There was a request, I had a chance to see that letter, that it was suspended. He's suspended. The procedure was completed in his absence and ended with a conviction. After that, the procedure was suspended and was still missing. He's doing his job. What I'm trying to say is that you don't have to muddle people on the basis of false facts. I'm saying, here's official confirmation of a stolen weapon, for both guns he had a license. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17882	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Replica, first Mr. Krasic, then Mr. Ristic. Mr. Stojkovic's exposure was misread by Mr. Ristic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17883	I had to report for the members of the Justice Committee because Mr. Ristic brought out a series of data that was absolutely incorrect. That's the first one. I'm not getting into his comments, but they're not actually true. First, he said, "some base." I don't know how the members of the High Council of Justice have their own base. Self-management's gone, forget it. There's no more base. I have to remind you, there are people here who were present at the Justice Committee's session, and I told you they would withdraw the dispute. Laugh, I know exactly how he breathes, how he works. I know what their behavior is, the structure, I could tell you infallibly – they're going to withdraw suggestions for that and that. Here, it happened. Speaking of your Djukanovic, he had only two years of court experience and four or five years of basketball experience to be elected judge, the president of the court. Ceda Jovanovic brought him in and said, "This is the president of the court." It's your personnel policy. He may be 15 as a future basketball player, but as a judge, he's only two years old. [[Invader from the O.R.: She has 15 years of basketball experience.]] There are people from Valjev, there's a gentleman from New Serbia, he can confirm it to you. He's got support 7-2, but he's got "against" in court, not "yes." Secondly, it is not correct to present here some information, a team before you know very well that the error was made by an official of that court when he delivered the information to whom the term of office expires, as president of the court. You knew that very well. But these people won't come out to explain it, for one simple reason, they probably changed that clerk, and in our material that we're getting -- seven candidates, we have six on the list, the seventh went to some list for another court. Someone planted it. That's what to say. Next, you're talking about a candidate for the Belgrade district attorney. Why don't you say it's a third or fourth contest? (Glass from O.R.: Fourth. So, fourth. Three times the High Council of Justice didn't choose. Why? You know what's in that D.A.'s office. There's only one on the side who can seduce order. Next, you say a man is 39 years old and retired for a month. On the Justice Committee you received information – some month in 2007; 31.5. Tell the right facts. Next, you don't say. Time, please. All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17884	Here you go, Mr. Ristic, misreading. At the same time, I use the opportunity to welcome students who observe the work of the Assembly from the balcony.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17885	President, you have already said what is the reason for my reporting to the Rules of Procedure, that is precisely because I am both by the Minister of Justice and by Mr Krasic incorrectly interpreted in relation to what I have said. First of all, as far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, I want to say that I have not disputed the constitutionality of the choice of judges, but I believe that there has been a dualism over the way of proposing. By the time the Rules of Procedure changed 15-20 days ago, it was the Committee for Justice who proposed to the Assembly, according to the Rules of Procedure, candidates for the election for judicial functions. Now all that's left is the High Council of Justice. However, we all advocate that, in relation to the independence of the judicial authority, judges choose judges themselves and resolve them. It is a standard in a developed democratic world. That's what I'm talking about. Judicial advice is everywhere in developed countries to ensure that the judiciary can independently influence its development and professional selection, that those who are high-quality - progress, that those who are bad, for different reasons prescribed by law - are resolved, neither can they advance, nor simply have no place in the judiciary, regardless of the continuity of the judicial function, which is assumed by the holders of those functions to behave legally. As far as Djukanovic is concerned, it is incorrectly stated that the man who had two years of training for the President of the District Court on the day of the election and, as Mr Krasic said, five years of basketball experience. He had 15 years of judicial work on election day for the president of the court. (Velimir Simonovic, from the scene: That is not true. It's absolutely true, you can check it out. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you to allow me an extension of my time for the passing of Mr. MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17886	It's okay, you have two seconds longer because of the sentence – it's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17887	I'm glad you have a sense of time. In any case, it's about a man with a great legal experience who has extraordinary results in the judiciary. I'll read you a 2004 bulletin published by the Supreme Court, and if you disrespect the entire Supreme Court and the results it has come to, then fine. He says: "Some district courts have completed a year without pending cases in a second-degree procedure both in civil and criminal matter or in just one of them, this is the case at the District Court in Valjevo. In the second-degree civil procedure, the year ended without pending cases – county courts in Valjevo, Zajecar. In the administrative matter, the general average of county court updates is below three months – 2.63 a month inflow of new cases. Without pending cases in this matter, the district court in Valjevo and the district court in Leskovac ended a year." So, only two courts in Serbia. You are now saying that there is a reason for this man to be re-proposed by the High Council of Justice for that function, and that there is a reason for Mr Obradovic, who has 41.18% confirmed cases, less than half of the verdicts he has made, to be confirmed and more than half of them have been abolished. Is that a guarantee that this man will lead the District Court in Valjev in a valid manner? The Rules of Procedure allow me to quote all data, and they are of interest to this discussion. I can quote newsletters for 2001, 2002, 2003 because you can see continuity in the quality of the work of this court. Please, give me more time, I have a few sentences to answer, Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17888	Be kind, Mr. Ristic, don't please, that we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, as it is not correct in this way to speak. Please, it is quite correct, we will allow the People's MP Bosko Ristic, since there are two basics, and he has waited very correctly for him to first hear one replica, he could have reported himself as one after another. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17889	I won't keep you very long, but since I'm reporting to explain the exposure of both my predecessors, I want to say about this candidate who applied for the Belgrade District Court. I'm surprised, isn't it possible among the deputy district attorneys in Belgrade to find a man who will be a district attorney, not a man who is 39 years old and who comes from Jagodina, it is necessary to provide him with an apartment. He himself wrote in his biography that at the moment of competition he had 39 years of internship. I don't know where they found that second moment where they stopped doing their job in 2007 in July. I don't know, we got that information from the minister on the board. In a biography written by the candidate himself, he says: 39 years of internship. I read his biography that I received through the official service of this congregation. One more thing, he wasn't suspended because he was running some procedure towards an MP, a former DS MP. The DS MP has been disfellowshipped from the party. According to him, while I was chairman of the Administrative Committee, the issue of confiscation of immunity along with other MPs was raised. Most voted not to remove his immunity and it was put on the agenda. However, this candidate showed great political acuity, as he prosecuted all members of the then Executive Board after a change in government in 1997 in Jagodina. I wonder what is the motive for bringing such a man into Belgrade as a district attorney and whether he is coming on a mission. And what is the task of leaving MPs to assess when pressing the taster for his choice?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17890	Replica, since this has been an exposure to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Krasic. The next speaker on the list is Mr. Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17891	Of course, I came forward for one simple reason that I had not challenged or defended anyone before, but I went out to tell you what was true at the Justice and Administration Committee's session, so that we understand each other first. I have to move on with the truth. So, because it was resolved, or suspended Judge of the Municipal Court in Nis because of evidence of travel and spending of funds, I think that Budva was concerned, Mr Bosko Ristic represented the position of DS, and he is based on the following – since the costs of municipal courts are not defined and how the presidents can spend it, there are now some imbalances. We dispute the choice of all judges of municipal courts in Belgrade, so their friend Vojkan Simic, Gordana Mihajlovic and the candidate for the Third Municipal Court are also one woman.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17892	Don't talk about private relations, please. No private relationships are allowed in life, so who's friend, you can't say that.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17893	No, I know he's a friend of Labus. I know you're offended. I know very well. I know whose daughter was an intern and intervened because there's no espresso in court but they have to walk there and drink regular Turkish coffee, you reminded me well, Mr. President. Remind me, please, and as soon as necessary. The SRS has challenged this Simic, but very specifically, what he has been messing with cases in the First Municipal Court. We've listed one particular item, it's the Mercedes affair. We listed very specific items where he blocked it, didn't allow investigative judges to do the job. As for the Second Municipal Court, Zoran Mijatovic is likely to have a greater influence on the court than anyone else. It is the prosecutor's problem, and the prosecutor can resolve the prosecutor's issue, it is not on the agenda now, knows very well Mrs. Mihajlovic why Serbian radicals protest and dispute her choice and it is known what her engagement was, etc. It is a disputation, and it is not disputed by a candidate by his name and last name, but for which reasons – because the court is allegedly being weighed against the municipality court in Nis. What's the reason? Explain to me how that could be the reason, because I guess we can fight over a reason. I have explained very specifically, as far as candidate Ratko Zecevic is concerned, whether he is in charge of criminal proceedings. It's not. He's a hero, he's been preventing you from kidnapping, he's been a judge for 10 years, and that's the best judge. But you say - he is politically active, and what is Vučetic, what is that of your Chiplic, what is the light of those presidents? What about them, and there are prosecutors, how did you forget the criteria? Now the problem with one candidate for district attorney, and Bosko Ristic has appointed a pensioner as head of the Niš District Court. Be objective, be realistic, say what is the criterion, not here, says democratic capacity of the judiciary. What is this democratic capacity of the judiciary? The only capacity that exists in the judiciary is the Constitution and the law. What democracy in court, would you explain to me, please? He has this democratic capacity, he was a candidate for the President of the Court in Tristenik, he opened the debate at 12:00, went to the pub and returned at 1400 hours. Forty people are waiting outside, and he says, "I've opened up the debate, the trial is under way." It's your democratic capacity. Don't do that, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17894	You've been drained by a four-minute democratic capacity. The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, shall be prepared for the MP Momir Markovic, and then the MP Tomislav Nikolic will be exhausted, and a list of sent-ins for the word will be exhausted. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17895	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Petrovic, I had no intention of answering my word today, but I thought that in one normal procedure we would discuss the courts and I think the discussion has led us in a completely different direction, so some candidates have been challenged. As soon as he is not a candidate from the Democratic Party, he will immediately be challenged by Bosko Ristic. If all parties go that way, we'll never pick the presidents of the courts. I think we need to come to our senses and it's clear how the presidents of the courts, prosecutors, assistants, etc. are elected. I think the whole procedure has been passed, and we have to trust those who led the procedure because we chose them. Who am I to dispute now, as some MPs appear here and slow some candidates from other parts, who do not come in touch or know about it, we heard, we saw, information from the street, a party. We should talk about candidates who work in our fields, who work with our citizens. We know best how they judge, how they judge, etc. I would accept that Mr. Bosko Ristic was talking about the Nis judiciary, he's all going around Belgrade, after Zrenjanin, after Kursumlia, after Bruce. Not the one from Bruce, Bosko, coming to you to file a report in Nis. So we need to talk and talk about your people, but we'll talk about that later. The High Council of Justice probably had certain criteria, opinions of the courts, opinions of the Association of Lawyers. If one district court has unanimously proposed a candidate for president, am I the one to dispute it? The District Court in Prokuplje unanimously proposed Mr. Tacic as president. They don't know who Tacic is, the judges don't know who's best between them and the judges they're supposed to work with don't know who's supposed to be first. Furthermore, I will vote in favour of any High Council proposal, otherwise I will not vote in favour of any proposal, because it is obvious that it is party interests, that it is party dealings and that later on, some parties are likely to benefit from it. As for Mr Ratko Zečević, let me speak to him and me in which space we live and where Ratko Zečević works. You often come out here not to enjoy citizens' trust. Recently, Mr. Ratko Zecevic was the mayoral candidate in Prokuplje. Among the ten candidates entered the second round, 6,000 voters voted for him, that is, whether the candidate enjoys confidence in his environment. I need to talk a little bit about expertise. Zecevic was a judge for a long time, and in Toplica, 90% of everyone can confirm to you, you can ask every citizen who is Ratko Zecevic, whether he's corrupt, whether you can buy him, whether he didn't run the cases best, whether he didn't finish the jobs the fastest. That bothers someone. I wondered why he was shooting now. So you brought down the congregation, and no one asks you. Shot in the air! Shot, Bosko Ristic says. Has anyone asked you about the Assembly? You're tearing down the assembly. You're burning up. Was there a shooting at the Assembly? Next, I say - 90% of Toplice citizens will ask you – Ratko Zecevic, the most honest man in Toplica. Ratka Rabbitic, I repeat, you can't buy, you can't corrupt. Today all the papers have been transmitted, and the truth is the following, and I would ask that certain MPs from Toplice, and there are four, five MPs I have spoken with, confirm and state what was happening there today, because they were present. There's someone, if you've heard of it, throwing tomatoes at Vladin Batic at a rally. The rest of them were chasing to beat up a man, and I asked him here in the O.R., and now look at you, and they attack one of them, and they step on him, and they beat him, and you don't shoot in the air to defend the man. Okay, maybe not Bosko Ristic. Probably, he's a Democrats. Next, I guarantee that if it comes to the election of Ratko Zečević, I have thought about why the Democratic Party slows it down, so I have asked my colleagues what is wrong with you, Ratko Zečević, as you slow it down. They say, "Let us slow him down because he will do against us what we have done to him." No, he's a bigger man, he won't do it, he's a professional, he'll do his job professionally. The next question I would like to stay on, which is to admit that some candidates would argue if they came first to speak, that Bosko Ristic had come out here and said that they had elected judges with Batic, I would raise my hands and of this – let them slow down, but he always avoids it. He knows, bringing a man in, he's never seen a court, maybe he was once a witness, and they put him on as president of the court. If you want to share justice, then Mr. Bosko Ristic, you should always be just. You led the Administrative Board in the Assembly and then at the end of the debate said Bosko – who is "for" on the Committee that Neda was in the O.R. Many of them raise their hands – she was in the O.R., and then she said, "I was taking a bath in Bodrum." And then, now we're gonna slow down the judges in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17896	The People's MP Momir Markovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17897	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the most sensitive branch of all three branches of government is the judiciary, and all the problems in the judiciary reflect society and directly affect relations, status and the situation. The judiciary has two basic problems that all others come from. The first is a material position. We adopted an increase in taxis 15, 20 days ago, because we are told that income goes directly to improving the material position in the judiciary. However, the day before yesterday, when we discussed the budget, we see that Minister Dinkic was a well-needed judiciary in the part, so I wonder if the ministers speak in the government when they meet there, if the minister is speaking to Minister Dinkic, because they have to agree on some relations in the government before coming here. Dinkic is an alpha and omega for all financial matters and this is a direct negative consequence of the vertical division of the ministry. The party, the ministry, from the minister to the cleaning lady in the ministry. If Dinkic says he has no money - then he has no money. This problem can be solved and will be resolved in a very simple way if the judiciary is determined by the budget, i.e. that the judiciary directly decides on its budget, on budget spending. Another group of problems are personnel problems, since the judiciary, the judiciary and the prosecution are specific occupations. There are lawyers, but this is narrow and specific. So far, the judiciary has not been invented in 2000, but since the Serbian judiciary exists, a system of judicial training: a trainee, an expert associate, and a senior expert, so when the place opens, he gets the place of judge or deputy prosecutor. The problem has arisen since 2000, because people who came as secretaries, passed the judicial exam, completed the law school, but the secretary of primary school or high school, even the secretary of agricultural cooperatives. We've come across a lot of things as proposals to elect a judge or a deputy prosecutor. Thus, the advancement of this schooled staff is in a way both slow and disabling. There's another problem about the D.A.'s staff policy, which came to me by the eye, but I think it's going to have to be dealt with legally. For example, the problem with the prosecution - deputies are subject to re-election and the prosecutor is not subject; the president of the court is subject to re-election and the judges are not subject to re-election. I think it's a illogicality that will have to be corrected over time. The prosecution, the judiciary, the judiciary, especially since 2000, has been under terrible pressure. Judged and sued under impossible conditions. Political parties are very engaged in court. That should not be allowed at all, especially by the ruling party. In such proposals, this negative selection should be eradicated as much as possible. He can't sympathise with a political party or a member of a political party to be one of the criteria, and that was it. The judiciary will stand on its feet, seas. I hope very quickly, but in the fall to gain status and reputation, when elections pass, and when SRS representative Stojkovic sits in place, when the justice minister is radical. Then there won't be any pressure. We have until then to secure the funds for the judiciary. They are amazing, almost unsustainable conditions for working in these institutions, especially when you leave Belgrade, although courts are not equipped materially in Belgrade either, and we will staff them easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17898	Here you are, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to repeat, on behalf of the SRS, what we are constantly telling you in selecting these courts. The only thing that matters with all of you is whether you're in power or in opposition. When you are in power, you have one criteria for selecting judges, and when you are in opposition, you criticise if those in power take over those criteria. Of course the judiciary isn't independent, and you're criticizing it when it's independent of you. It is true that the Communist party, or socialist party, has been in power too long and that what you found in 2000 was created at the time of the communist authorities, or the Socialists. But there were many more good judges than bad ones. And then it was known that a man could become both a judge and a president of a court. Not by having someone on the committee for the night, and you know how we've thrown ourselves here, once we've made the same decision, we're setting someone up as a judge and we're making the same decision for the President of the Court. It wasn't possible at times when the state was better arranged. We don't have a Constitutional Court again today. We haven't had it in a year and a half since you came to power – October 5. You don't mind that condition. You're dealing with it. We don't have a Constitutional Court, so what? Although they are gathered together and made a decision, one party has the President of the Constitutional Court, one of them has an influential member and you've already deployed everywhere. Today, when we vote, we will challenge some judges. I apologize to them now. These are the data and information we have on their work so far, and I apologize to them for meddling in it, but it's up to the National Assembly to decide on judges. Judges will not be elected by judges, I hope never and in Serbia no one will be independent of the National Assembly. So I think it will be, I guarantee, if our vote is decisive. When radicals decide who they give a voice to or won't, there's no party membership. When you were changing judges in 2001, how many radicals lost their office? I don't know, I've never heard of a judge being a radical, so that's why he's been replaced. So it's a branch of government that we don't interfere with as MPs. Of course, as soon as you can influence someone's choice, you're involved in someone's life. But that's the fate of the state, that's how a fictitious division of power is arranged, and yet the National Assembly is the place where it has the most power. If the National Assembly elects a Prime Minister, if it elects a Supreme Court president, it means that it still has some power over those other independent branches of government. I want to accept that power, but I won't accept that it's very important for you whether it's from your party judge or not, whether it's from your party or not. What do you care? They know the MPs of the SRS, when they come to me and say, "This one's from another party," and I say, "What is your interest in not being a judge or prosecutor?" Do you want to deal with the court? You won't. When you're out of court, what do you care which party the judge is in, all you care about is whether he works by law, whether he respects the law or not? So, as long as there is an SRS and judges are elected in the Assembly, we will identify ourselves. You will see, we are not ashamed and we are not afraid of any proposal that has arrived, even though we are in opposition, even though we are priors against everything you suggest here. You know, when it takes courage to get behind a decision, we'll stand by that decision. We are also behind the decision that the lady, present today and invited to the Assembly, be President of the Supreme Court and I am not ashamed of it. Here, I'm telling you, that's not why we've repented yet. That's how we'll stand behind some proposed candidates during the vote. You'll see, when we're clear to say we're for that candidate. We're not ashamed, and he's not our member, he doesn't judge any of us, and he doesn't prosecute any of us. It's not our motive. I wish these debates were like this today, but I've seen a political motive for all of you in the debates about judges and prosecutors. Then don't hypocritically tell me how you advocate judicial independence. You don't stand for it. You're pushing for the judiciary to be independent of those other political parties. I'd like it to be dependent on all of us, to choose a judge and then to be controlled by those who are competent to control the courts without us having to deal with it anymore. When he convinces us that he no longer deserves that function, then let's get rid of him. That's why we're going to take part in the vote, show you our position, tell you who we're up against. In an explanation of the dispute, you'll also see why we're against some people. There are still failures in the proposals. As far as we're concerned, when we decide, that VSP won't exist. That's what I'm telling you right now. I think it was a big mistake and now you all argue about it and how to choose the VSP, who suggested it to you and how to get that candidate through the VSP. Why is that? We have the Assembly, we have the Justice Committee. As once, the Justice Committee will propose, of course, consultations always exist, and the Assembly will choose. No transmission, no transmission, no overplay, no revote, once, two, three times. This is where it's revoted. That's why I listened carefully to today's debate, because I expected finally representatives of other political parties to start thinking about judges and prosecutors like this. Unfortunately, I don't notice that, but well, as far as we're concerned, we'll never change this attitude. We were discussed by party representatives who were not in power and party representatives who were. So I am not ashamed to say from this pay phone what our position is, because none of you who spoke to us can say – what Tomislav Nikolic is saying is true, we agree in the halls differently. When we make a deal with you whether you need to be a judge or not, we make a deal this way. It's either worth it as a judge or it's not worth it, or it's worth it as a man or it's not worth it. I do not challenge the judges and do not prevent them from belonging to political parties and do not prevent them from voting for those who are in their hearts and whose programs they like. Don't share them, don't hit their stamps. The best thing would be for judges in court to know who is in which political party, and to have a healthy collective in which judgments are passed under the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17900	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. Thank you. Before I conclude a single search on the motions for decisions, whether the proposing representatives want a final word. Yeah. There you go, Mrs. Shkero's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17901	I'm really going to try to be brief. I want to thank you for what I have participated in, heard, which, on behalf of the High Council, of course, I will have everything discussed in mind and that the High Council will continue to discuss this and try to improve its work. What I would still like to say is that I really think that this assembly must improve its work when it talks about proposing candidates and that there is no right to be handled by political motives when it talks about candidates for judges and presidents of courts. Then we will be in a position for the High Council to propose a candidate, that the Assembly says that this candidate is not worthy of a choice, and that in the next election, by respecting the law that this assembly has passed and which says that the same candidate cannot be proposed by the High Council, and that it is the best candidate, and now you are not proposing the best candidate anymore. This is what is arranged when talking in a political way, not in a way that must define the proposal of candidates for courts. I hope that we will have even better co-operation in the future with regard to the High Council taking care of expertise and dignity, and that MPs who are members of the board will help the Council greatly in providing us with their thoughts, and especially on dignity, because they can also discuss it very well. I would also like to say that the High Council has a majority judge in place. The judges have the opportunity to propose the best. I think thinking that the voice of a minister or one representative of the Assembly or a representative of a lawyer can prevail in the High Council really points to something, which is that this assembly has no confidence in the work of judges. If the judge can judge, he can certainly vote independently on his colleague and not think about what the representative of the executive government, the legislative authority or the lawyer means, because each of us must have a thought, and his head and his commitment. It certainly can't be seen that way, because otherwise we don't have the thinking of the judiciary, and the decline of people's thinking about the judiciary certainly follows the fall of thinking about all other branches of government. How we will have our place depends greatly on how they will be discussed here and how the people will think about the judiciary in view of the discussions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17902	Thank you. Please, it is the basic right of MPs, as Mr Nikolic had just said, to represent their political views, regardless of how the Assembly was pleading, and including the views that had just been made. So they have the full right for MPs to have the view that judges can do something that they do not have the right under the law, so the law forbids them, but the political stance of MPs is allowed to be different. I am concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions... I'm sorry, I didn't see. The word is Minister Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17903	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really want to thank you. This discussion speaks of two things that matter to me. Even opposition MPs attacked me more as a minister than courts. That says two things. One thing is political, and we'll discuss it past this hall and beyond this point of the agenda, which is good. On the other hand, it speaks of what I said, which confirms that the situation in the courts has begun to improve and therefore has fewer attacks on the courts. It's a special pleasure to me, because apart from a few individual cases, there weren't many words and attacks on courts. Believe me, the courts are starting to mend, procedures for those who don't work are moving. I thank you for your participation in these discussions, and I hope you will vote on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-07-19-0.u17904	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have conducted a single search on the motions for decisions, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the motions for decisions, on the contested proposals under Article 179(4). Rules of Procedure, and then on all other undeniable proposals in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda: – Proposals for a decision amending the decision on the election of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia: Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS and Milos Albianic parliamentary group, president of the G17 plus you received those proposals, as well as the addition of the draft decision, with the correction of that amendment, which was submitted by MP Milos Aligrudic, president of the DSS parliamentary group. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time of the debate is five hours, I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motions for decisions. Do they want the word of the representatives of the promoters, the MPs: the Verse of Radeta, Branislav Nedimovic and Vladimir Homan? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Since there are no statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask once again whether they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a unique search of the motions for decisions. Since we have carried out a unique search on decision-making proposals, the National Assembly will decide on each decision-making proposal in particular in the voting day. We've exhausted today's agenda. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours with a debate in detail on drafts of the budget system law and budget rebalancing. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 105 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that more than one third of the MPs attend the session and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next Members of Parliament: Marko Djurisic and during the afternoon Milorad Belic. Since the National Assembly has completed a joint principle search, namely a single search on all points of the sitting agenda, pursuant to Article 140(3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we move to search in detail. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments: Gordana Pop-Lazić, Suzana Grubješić, together Nenad Bogdanović and Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Arsic, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Zoran Krasić, Goran Cvetanović, Dragoljub Stamenković, Jovan Todorovic, Vojislav Milajić, Branislav Rankić, Petar Jojić, Sreto Perić, Branislav Stevanović, Paja Momčiov, Milovanovic, Bozidar Koprivica, Aleksandar Koprivica, Vitomir Plužarevic, Mita Avramov, Miljko Četrović, Milorad Mirčić, Draga Žolović and Zlata Žović as well as the Republic of Serbia. You've received reports from the Finance Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before that, one important announcement, although it is not about this session, is a session scheduled for this afternoon. Since at the request of the National Assembly, the Government, as you know, has done all the work, has opened a tender and delivered all the documentation to the Assembly, but has also delivered the Commission’s conclusion, and of course the Assembly will conclude on the selection of an external auditor. I find that the government has withdrawn the proposal for a conclusion on the selection of an external auditor in order to allow the Assembly to propose in September. It confirms Mr Dinkic, on behalf of the promoter, therefore, that he was withdrawn from the procedure of the proposal for a conclusion on the selection of an external auditor. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
