ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23647	Mr. Markovic, on every agenda item, the rule is to conduct a debate in the National Assembly, a kind of search is being conducted. Despite the impression that nothing is disputed in this proposed decision on the termination of the judge's office, despite the fact that the majority of the judge's office ceases on a personal request or because the conditions for retirement or disability are met, it is the right to allow the National Assembly to discuss. We in the SRS are not going to use this item of the agenda to point out the lack of an existing system of choice, resolution and termination of judicial functions, because we have long, and quite, told it. I just want to point out... (President: Please allow the MP to speak.) Here you go, Mr. Crassy. )......................................................................................................... Even though the basis for the termination of the Judges' office, especially the candidate under regular number 3, is his free will, which can also be based on the fact that this candidate is angry with both the Judges' Society and the Justice System, both at the National Assembly and on those who promised to be re-elected as President of the Court. We still have to raise our voice and say that it's not quite enough to write a statement - I don't want to be a judge anymore, but the judicial authorities or those in the judicial system, and above all I think about what's in the Supreme Court and what's gravitating to the Supreme Court, in the form of the Committee or the Council, there must be some answer to the question of how they did it when they were presidents or judges. There's no answer to that. Not when it comes to the former president of the Second Municipal Court, who cheered and dressed, who dealt more with the policies of a particular judiciary. Of course, now, as a future lawyer, she will realize the influence she once had when she was president of the court. A similar situation is with the former head of the First Municipal Court and other dominant sizes of the DOS regime, the DOS regime of October 5th, which have been running and recommending for the high seats in the judiciary just by serving some policy. Now, gentlemen, the MPs and you citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transmission, if you follow, should raise our voice today and ask the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, president of the National Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and all UN tribunal fans to resign at this time. You had a chance to hear yesterday's news from The Hague tribunal. If a month ago you were confused by the news that Haradinaj was allowed to do politics even though he was in the trial before The Hague tribunal, yesterday's verdict must have made it clear to everyone what kind of court he was, and who you tricked all of this into going to The Hague tribunal voluntarily, and who you kidnapped and sent to the executioners. Is there any justice, is there any truth, is there any law? The theme is, Mr. Istvan, it's all about the subject. In this country, the judges who tried Clinton and the gang who bombed us were persecuted, so you immediately accepted Javier Solana as the great daddy, the great liberator and creator of that country, which is why you all boast that you are governmental parties. Democrats say the state-run party, created a state-run community that does not function and does not exist. What other state did they make? All the other states have torn apart the ones that were in this space here. I guess now you understand what The Hague tribunal is and what it means to The Hague tribunal. I understand some judges who don't want to have anything to do with our judiciary, because there's no law anymore, no principles, no morals, nothing. They want to escape some, they don't want to be in that court. Let's remember, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when the Law was brought here to help the families of The Hague indictees. What did you do? Right through the Constitutional Court, you blocked the illegal application of the entire law, not individual acts brought under that law, and yet you boast. Even last night, a man boasts that someone is supporting the Hague indictees. Who supports this Limay and Thaci? Who supports them from this government? Everything has been done in favour of those who are the open enemies of this people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, the dots don't count. Today we're going to have a nice talk, so they've made their own demands, let's solve them too, next point let's share the medal, and then we're going to vote on the amendments, big science in our country. And The Hague broke our country. One kidnapped, one in an impossible situation that he had to go so he wouldn't expose the inconveniences and the state, and himself, and the family, and the party, and the others, so you arranged an escort for them, the ministers followed them. You once gave your car as a great act, he's a great patriot who voluntarily surrendered. And what are the UN tribunal's verdicts? Do you from the government, both these and the previous ones, have the nerve to face the public? You've sent our citizens to the guillotine, consciously and deliberately, to enlist. This is the puppet government. He's doing everything the IMF wants, Javier Solana, and other white world enemies. Let's all get back to our initial views. We haven't changed ours. Did you change yours? You can't. You can't. You can't. You can't. Citizens of Serbia, remember who are fans of The Hague tribunal, starting with who said they should go there to prove their innocence, so through what is seen, not Markovic, but this one across the street here, which is viewed in mirrors. And you put him on the negotiating team. You know how to negotiate with this team. They know Serbia's citizens what your promises are. You wrote against Limai, against Thaci, against these, against those, and where is justice? The evidence came out, that wasn't enough for The Hague. The Hague indictee can deal with politics, organise demonstrations, do whatever he wants in Kosovo and Metohija, and even have these claims against these municipalities below. The same one is co-operating here with Biserka, Kandicka, Ced Jovanovic. Where are you? Why aren't you arrested? You have proof. If I found out, you'd know better five times. What are you waiting for? You're waiting for the state to disappear and let us know that a state has disappeared in a democratic procedure. Take care of what you do, how will you judge history, how will you in front of children and grandchildren? You tricked everyone and the people and those people you delivered there like a living place. You sold them. For what? To the Paris Club, to the London Club. For what? For the development of our economy, nothing works. There are 10 mobsters in this country, 10 big tycoons. The whole world knows how to launder money, starting with that JAT CEO, who receives 25,000 euros, and then seven thousand for himself, the rest for tycoon Danica Draskovic. And you support it. Then you're looking at how to fit in, where any president of the court, where any judge, so if it doesn't pass, better, I won't be a judge anymore, I'm going to some NGO, to be financed by, the best Soros. Open people's eyes, look, you're parties to power, you run the state, you have to protect the state, not destroy the state. You've got your job wrong. Every agenda shows how badly you run the country and how you destroy it. At every point of the agenda. We don't want to keep you company, because you're not our company.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23648	The People's Messenger Dragoljub Stamenkovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. Otherwise, I don't understand what you said at first, because of course the debate is opening and I opened it. I was only well-intentioned to ask the bringer of the list to which the point applies, so I wouldn't make a mistake. Otherwise, it's natural to open a debate. Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23649	Now I hear a strange term "bringer of the list." Maybe the face that brought the list, but the bearer of the list hard. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the opportunity to remind the president of the National Assembly, who is often well-intentioned, and to use an expression that is not suitable and often not heard in our society. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this point is indirectly linked to what we did yesterday, and yesterday we discussed a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy. Of course, a very important role in the fight against corruption or whatever it is you want in the adoption of a national strategy is played by judicial and public prosecutorial functions. It is those people who need to establish corruption, that on the basis of evidence they bring proper sanctions, that they act with appropriate punishment preventively, that is to say, deter the potential perpetrators of such crimes. Which are the most common causes of the termination of the functions of our judges, i.e. the bearer of judicial functions. It can primarily be because of years of age, dissatisfaction with pay or position, or progress in the ministry, for some committed crime or act that is incompatible with such a function. It is very common because they are people who want to resist the political pressures they face in doing their jobs. It is very often that some appear in society, which should be sanctioned immediately, immediately and by some accelerated procedure in court, are delayed for months, so that many of the affairs that burden our society hide, delay and cover up in any other way, so that the person who did this work does no harm to his party. We radicals don't think there's anything that can do harm to strangers. It's got to be an individual's answer. We stand for a completely independent judiciary, as a special branch of government. When we discussed the elements yesterday, the factors that need to be improved to reduce corruption, we also talked about the independence of the judiciary budget. So we have to take a lot of care when we propose judges, when they're elected here, what kind of people we choose, so we don't regret it tomorrow and say, it's this party, it's that party, because they're the people they took. Let's let these people be independent, be independent, be responsible and do their job on their own. I wouldn't talk about people who are solving themselves right now, because these are their problems, their reasons, but I really ask you on behalf of the SRS that in future, we make sure that they are really quality and best people, who will do their job in the best way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23650	The People's MP Verica Radet has the word, and then the People's Messenger Nemanja Sarovic. For tolerance, simply, one authorised representative was late, so, not to be surprised, I mean two other speakers from the other parliamentary list.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23651	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity when we are in a situation to talk exclusively about the resolution of judicial functions, because every time we have a resolution on the agenda, then we actually have a choice of judges, by hundreds of judges, 50 presidents of courts, and then we all deal with these people who need to be elected or who in the opinion of some of us shouldn't be elected, and the resolutions are drawn in a way that doesn't matter at all in solving problems in the judiciary. I was truly happy to see that we only have this as a part of the agenda, and that's why I wanted, and all of us in the SRS, to look at the situation in the judiciary from that point of view. Of course, we won't talk about the resolutions of those who will no longer be judges because they meet the conditions for retirement, but we are interested in those who, on a personal request, require a resolution from the judge's office, and not all of them. I will remind you of the debates and what SRS MPs said when they were on the agenda of the appointment of judges and president of the courts, so you remember when we talked about Judge of the Fourth Municipal Court, Željko Scepanovic, who succumbed to the pressure of the then executive authority, particularly Vladan Batic, who promised that if he wrote a verdict in which a man would plead guilty, from the Fourth Municipal Court he would easily pass to the district court, and we had warned then and before he showed up with his request to move to a higher court, that it would happen. You didn't believe us, and it happened, and we discussed it again, and then the majority of the assembly realized that we were right and you voted against it, and that Mr. Zeljko Scepanovic asked to be relieved of his office and to be a lawyer. When it was on the agenda, I didn't have time, because there were more important things within that point, to ask the minister and ask the government, to ask the congregation's majority, to wonder why this Zeljko Scepanovic wanted to leave the court and go to lawyers. So he's aware that we were telling the truth about him and he knows it. I'm asking, what kind of lawyer is he gonna be tomorrow? If it wasn't necessary, or I think it is, that the Assembly Committee of Justice should write down nice to the Attorney's Office what we had to do with this judge Zeljko Scepanovic, so that we can send it to the Attorney's Office, we don't influence him, if they need such a lawyer to put him on the list of lawyers, and if they don't have to let him know about it. Today we have an interesting solution, which is Judge Gordana Mihailovic. The lady wanted to be the president of Belgrade's Second Municipal Court. She was in D.C. We of the SRS have said a lot that was not in any way in favour of her being the president of the Second Municipal Court and she, I guess, is not going to be an ordinary judge, she wants to be the president of the Second Municipal Court, to harass the Belgrade judiciary, and she is today applying for a resolution from the judicial office, and she is likely to go to lawyers. Now I ask you, dear colleagues, do you think it would be good for this assembly, if the Justice Committee wrote one writer to the Bar Association, to say what we MPs think of Gordana Mihailovic, in fact not what we think, but what data we have on her work, the opinion is undivided because you all voted when Zoran Krasic challenged the proposal, you all voted and you all agreed that she was unworthy of performing the judicial function. I wonder if anyone is unworthy of being a judge, how worthy of being a lawyer. Who will give their fate to such a lawyer? That Mrs. Gordana Mihailovic was one of the judges, who went around the white world during 2000 and just before and before that and there ran in the most awful way of her fellow judges, the Serbian judicial system, the Serbian judiciary, and she is one of the culprits for which Serbian citizens are massively tried in The Hague tribunal. In Europe and the world, she drew the Serbian judiciary as incompetent, corrupt, party, that she could not judge war crimes indictees, she and several of her colleagues. That's why we think it's not enough just to say in the voting day who it is for Gordana Mihailovic to be resolved, press the green button, we're all for, she goes to the lawyers, she's probably going to join the fighters, as they call herself, for human rights, she'll probably join the lawyers of the type Biljana Kovacevic-Vuco, Natashi Kandic, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, etc. She belongs in that society, she is from that environment, she works with them, and she worked with them. It is, therefore, one of the most responsible reasons why the Serbian judiciary in the world and in Europe has been oiled. That's why we don't think it's enough to accept her desire to go to lawyers, but I think we have to inform as a Assembly, as a congregation board, simply so that all this information we have is delivered to the Attorney's Office, so let it happen to God, if someone so severely wrongs his country, if he's not already going to jail, then at least let him not do what he wants to do. Many citizens of Serbia, not guilty or due patriots, honest, honest, out of work, hundreds of thousands. Why now someone who has sinned so much about the Serbian judiciary, about the Serbian state, why would he be a judge as far as he wants. Well, it was first returned to the judiciary by the illegal decision of the previous assembly, to remind you, because it was relieved of the judicial functions, because that Assembly that was present in 2000 had information and information about what this Mrs. Gordana Mihailovic was doing through the Judges' Society and within the Judges' Society. At that time, we knew, or colleagues who were sitting in parliament at the time, that Mrs Gordana Mihailovic, with several other colleagues, was going and preparing the court for The Hague tribunal for the trial of Serbian citizens, Serbian citizens in The Hague. It was then resolved and it was re-returned, imagine, and then the Constitutional Court and Slobodan Vučetic did not call to say that it was an unconstitutional decision that the same body twice made its decision, once and again like this. At that time, the DOS did not know that the Assembly is the most legislative body in Serbia and that it is irrelevant what the assembly is, who is the majority of the assembly. The assembly is a higher legislative body, and unfortunately it was also when Ceda Jovanovic sat here as the main figure in the Assembly, even today when many who are not surprised by the story that Zoran Krasic had just told, and related to yesterday's news from The Hague tribunal, the most terrible we could hear, dear colleagues, are confirmed by what we Serbian radicals have been saying since the founding of The Hague tribunal, that it is an anti-Serbian tribunal, an anti-Serbian court. Whoever goes there, if he's not a Serb, or he's being released, comes back to the Shipari to deal with politics or get rid of responsibility, or they get some fines that they fit into and detention that they've spent until the trial is over. Is it possible that you don't see it? Is it possible that you do not see, ladies and gentlemen, that the president of Serbian Radicals, Vojislav Seselj, has been sitting in The Hague for almost three years now, so that no one can think of moving forward with the procedure, that they do not pay attention to what the team that assists the defence of Vojislav Seselj also daily points to The Hague tribunal, and to the prosecutor's office, and to various international organisations, that they must begin the trial of Vojislav Seselj, or that they must pass a liberating verdict, because a man cannot sit in The Hague tribunal forever and that no one does anything but in all possible ways violate human rights there. Of course, you don't care about such things. You're interested in what he commands you to do, and then yesterday we had a proposal for a decision to establish a national anti-corruption strategy. I'll just remind you of a few things from that decision. I'd like you to remember everything we Serbian radicals talk about every time we talk about any legal issue. You are recommended here to introduce disciplinary responsibilities of judicial officials. We've been telling you this for five years, we've been telling you that it's not a solution to the problem in the judiciary and we're telling Mr. Stojkovic, the minister, we've talked to the previous one, that it's not a solution to the problem in the judiciary just bringing new judges, however good they are. The problem is, and the solution is to clear up the situation of the current judiciary, get out of the justice system. There are few of them, and we keep saying that, but enough is enough to make life worse for both the citizens of Serbia and their colleagues working in the judiciary. What your mentors recommend, we've been telling you for years. Furthermore, you are recommended to be banned from political action by the holders of judicial functions. We've been telling you, don't choose that judge, he's a high-ranking official and those parties. We told you, Slobodan Vučetic can't be the President of the Constitutional Court, he's a senior G17 official. You didn't listen to us. They tell you, providing adequate earnings and conditions for the work of judicial officials. We've been telling you this for years. You need to enable judicial authorities to work, you need to keep an eye on employees' earnings. Batic, meanwhile, exhibited them when he told them that when he came to power he would have 1,000 marks of salary at the time. That's when the stamps were. As he came up with the idea of really sharing such a salary, it was no longer, given inflation, nor 600, 700 marks at the time. So if you listen to Serbian radicals, you wouldn't need any recommendations from the EU, because we're just saying everything they recommend. They tell you, monitoring complaints about the work of judicial officials, especially in cases of corruption. We've been telling you this for years. We're giving you concrete examples here. We ask Mrs. Vida Petrovic-Škero, I ask her from this pay phone to finally inform us, what about the motion to dismiss Judge Danko Lausevic from the Fifth Municipal Court, who made one verdict under the influence of the lawyer Vlada Pavicevic, and Vlado Pavicevic is the lawyer of Stanko Sutotic Canet-Zapca, as well as other criminals. Well, three and a half years ago, we Serbian radicals launched an initiative on the High Council of Justice, and the Great Personal Council, and the Ministry of Justice, on all bodies that could have had something to do with it, to this day we don't know what's going on with that judge, and we know that the case is still in the drawer by appeal. Isn't that right, Zoran? He still keeps it in his drawer, three and a half years old. They recommend the independence of the judiciary budget. I spoke personally to Mladjan Dinkic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, here five days ago, when we talked about the 2006 budget, I said that he must have a judicial budget and must not have a minister of justice, the ministry or anyone from the executive government to influence the judiciary because he gives them salaries, increases or decreases. Of course, they wouldn't listen to us. Like, you'll accept this strategy. What do you need a strategy when you won't accept parts of it or when you haven't already accepted it when we warned you about it, when we warned you about court fees and how to collect court fees, how to spend court fees? You don't care, you watch yours. When someone else comes and tells you that you have to, then you formally accept it, and basically you didn't accept anything, and yet some control and supervisory when it comes to you from Europe, they're going to tell you that the situation in the judiciary is wrong, because none of what they recommend, and what we're talking about here, we killed ourselves talking about justice for five years, and you don't give a shit about it. They tell you, ensuring the efficiency of the execution of judgments, curbing corruption within the judicial administration, we're telling you all of this, and it's partly about court fees and what we've been telling you. That clerk when he's working for some, and I think the salary at the courthouse of these people who work in the office, tens of thousands of dinars, he doesn't care if he's gonna charge a $50,000 court fee. The judge has to conduct the procedure, whether or not the tax is paid. We have astronomical court fees. Somebody pays them, somebody doesn't pay them. Whoever pays them has no idea where they went. There is no independent judicial budget to know that these fees are in that budget, that they will return through salaries and judges, and professional associates, and employees in the judiciary. There is a great burden in courts on professional associates, that fellow lawyers, lawyers, former judges know well. They know that an expert associate handles almost the entire case, the judge only does what is done in the courtroom, and their salary is about 1.5 times higher, to judges than to professional associates. Of course, I don't think the salary to the judges is big. On the contrary, there are very small salaries in the judiciary, and we also saw through the budget that no significant increase was planned. I'm stressing again, just to deal with court fees, to get someone to tell us exactly how much of the funds they could get into that budget. Of course, you don't charge 20-30 percent of the taxi and then we have all these problems we have. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you will vote for resolutions, especially these people who retire. We don't have the right to prevent them in any way, although it would be good if, when someone retires, before they leave, that the Justice and Management Committee, that the High Council of Justice, that part of the Ministry that deals with this work, let's see how many judges who retire leave the cases in the drawer, how many cases they deliberately remove, how many cases are older, if the litigators are 15, 20 years old, what kind of "bones", as they say in the judiciary, leave to colleagues who will come after them. So we need to know all this before we vote on these proposals. I especially insist, and I suggest that you do not vote for Gordana Mihailovic's resolution, until this assembly has passed the bills, until she says she has worked, that the money has disappeared in the Second Municipal Court, that she has charged only SRS per hundred dinars per signature, completely past the ministry's decision, when the signatures for the president's candidacy were collected, and then she has to pay back that money because such a solution was made in the Ministry of Justice, until she tells us that she has been provoking Serbian justice and her colleagues in the white world, what she has done in the Society of Judges, what she has promised to do when they illegally returned it in 2001, that former assembly. So, to a lot of questions, that lady has to answer us before we tell her that we're solving these judicial functions, because after everything she's done and how she's done, the reward is not to be a judge anymore. She will go to lawyers, waiting for Biljana Kovacevic Vuco, Kandićka, the others. He will have what to do, as they say, a "fighter" for the human rights of all but Serbs, will continue to talk about The Hague tribunal what it has said so far. We think that this woman can't be a lawyer, let alone a judge, but we insist that she lodges accounts before this parliament, because parliament has elected a judge, parliament will resolve it when we have a serious conversation with her.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23652	The word has a folk MP Nemanja Sarovic, followed by MP Hranislav Peric, then MP Miljko Četrovic and Momir Markovic, the last registered speaker on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may be a shame that today is not the minister of justice with us, Mr Stojkovic, because I think today is an ideal opportunity to complete that debate since yesterday, so that even in light of those provisions and your famous national anti-corruption strategy and everything you have written there about our judicial system, we should consider today and this proposal to cease judicial duty. We here today have a decision on the termination of the judge's duties to the judges of general jurisdiction, from the municipal court, through the county, to the Supreme, a total of seven judges. I think there's a lot to say at this point, which is why these decisions haven't been dealt with in any way. It would be good for us to have a representative of the High Council of Justice, or the Great Personal Council or at least Mr Stojkovic, as justice minister, so let's see what has long been detected as a cancer-earning Serbian judiciary has been resolved in these five years, richly and somewhat longer than you think that democracy has prevailed. We think it's a revolutionary democracy, in itself, the negation of democracy. When you look at the recommendations given in yesterday's document, where you say it is necessary to establish clear and unique criteria for proposing and selecting judges and public prosecutor's office holders and for their resolution. Practically, in this case, when someone on a personal request wants to stop being a judge, it's a little bit of what we, as a National Assembly, can do, because we can't force anyone to perform a judicial function against their will, nor does anyone here want to do it. The fact remains that some of these judges have long ceased to do judicial work. The most prominent example is Gordana Mihailovic. She stopped being a judge a long time ago, with that resolution. Afterwards, you, the anti-candidate and anti-constitutional decision, returned her to the Serbian judiciary, gave her the opportunity to bear the name of the judges again, but it is clear that she has separated from the essential exercise of judicial duty, judgment and work on cases much earlier than she has filed this motion for resolution. This was said in the clearest way that she was no longer able to perform her judicial duties, nor was it something that was in the sphere of her education. It simply shows here that if she could not be elected by the National Assembly, she would be President of the Second Municipal Court, that she no longer wanted to serve as judge. What you should also know is that there was a certain larger one in the Second Municipal Court in which all objects that were a little more ticklish were deployed. The two judges tried these cases and they were so focused that they could be easily manipulated, because you can never control the entire Second Municipal Court or any other, especially if it's bigger courts, you can't have control. Now such a larger one has remained vacant and has been standing and waiting for certain cases for months, since there is no judge in charge of it greater. The problem has arisen and is now waiting to see which of the judges will assume on themselves to continue what they have done, or have not done, acted, or have not acted in certain cases. Of course, we generally believe that Gordana Mihailovic should not be the judge of the Second Municipal Court, and certainly not the president of that court. We've repeated it many times. And it's also true what Ms. Radeta said, that it would be necessary for this story not to end. All those criticisms that we have referred to, which were essential in nature, should not be deleted by this move and its request for resolution, because this, in our opinion, is the best evidence that what was presented by the SRS parliamentary group in the debate over the election of the President of the Courts was absolutely true. We would do well to be told what the minister means here when he says the introduction of disciplinary responsibilities of judicial officials is necessary. What we think is that the introduction of any disciplinary proceedings, especially in the Serbian judiciary, is completely inappropriate, so that it could only serve to deal with judges, first of all with those that cannot be affected. Because how you're going to conduct disciplinary proceedings and for which you're violating a judge to judge, for example. Someone for the most serious crimes, in which way you will discipline him, which sanctions will be, in which cases these disciplinary proceedings will be initiated. Or you want to practice the abject of certain judges in this way, so that when someone does not carry out his duties, when he does not act in accordance with the law, when he does not schedule investigations within the time period, when he does not make judgments within the time limit, that he should eventually have some violations and behavior that should be the basis for the initiation of a procedure to resolve a particular judge, you simply pass through this disciplinary procedure, and you give him some notice there. Given the other actions you suggested, it would probably not be a public warning, from which he would certainly fail and continue to do as he did by then, but you would have had cover, and say that you led against that judge a disciplinary procedure, you did what you have the opportunity to do. What should be happening today in the Serbian judiciary, which we should discuss, are certainly requirements for the termination of the judge's office, but not on the basis of a personal request, but in accordance with the Law on Judges, above all, the resolution of those who do not carry out their work properly, and there are many of them. As long as such proposals are not on the agenda, we will have in the judiciary the situation we have today, and I will return to a few qualifications that the ruling coalition itself has put in yesterday's proposal for a national fight against corruption. Then you say the introduction of preventive measures and control mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest of judicial officials. Did you mean Gordana Mihailovic here, did you mean her engagements in numerous NGOs, seminars, the Society of Judges and other NGOs, which served everything except the progress of the Serbian judiciary. You're saying a ban on the political functioning of a judicial officer. The political functioning of judicial officials has been banned today, and we have already said that on many occasions, but what is missing is a sanction for those who, in addition to a clear and strict ban, continue to deal with political work, who give political statements when one of the parties needs it. Especially when it comes to the Democratic Party, when the Democratic Party announces that it could apply for an assessment of constitutionality or the legality of a provision, then there are already some judges who give, although no one has asked them, their opinion, even though it is known that the Constitutional Court is giving its opinion on any matter, then they appear either in the "Sandstone" B92 or in a similar show, so they bring out those views that could suit a particular party. Remember that for some questions, such as The Serbian Radical Party's request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the state of emergency decision, when 12,000 people were literally closed, was taken away from them by all civil rights, it took the Constitutional Court about two years to react and to say what we all knew from the first moment, which is that the decision to introduce an emergency is not in line with the Constitution. Simply, two years after the introduction of the emergency situation, you no longer had the need to make such a decision. The only consequences that this decision will bring are the great damages that the Republic of Serbia will have to pay to all those who have passed the Constitution, past all the European conventions and UN conventions that we have ratified, have been closed and have been denied fundamental human and civil rights. In some other cases, such as was the Law on the Rights of Family Indictees before The Hague tribunal, then due to great urgency, because the future of the state could come in peril to the Constitutional Court, if some families were paid 200 euros a month, it could cause inconspicuous and irrevocable damage to bring, then, practically overnight, the Constitutional Court was acting on a provisional basis, although there is no right to do so, because the Constitutional Court does not have the authority to declare the full laws unconstitutional, but can only temporarily prevent the implementation of the acts of individual acts brought under the law. I'll remind you that no individual act has been brought under that law. Simply, the Constitutional Court has shown its true nature in that case. You from the ruling coalition should too, in light of the new facts, determine according to such procedures and those whose rights are at stake before The Hague tribunal, because yesterday, I will remind you, the UN tribunal has made a decision that best shows and paints its true nature, which is that it is a political court, which is made as an auxiliary body of the executive body, which is legally totally punishable and which only serves to impose blame on Serbs for the decommissioning of the former Yugoslavia, for the wars that are fought in that area, and that again some others and their officers are freed of those responsibilities. Will our country react in any way to the release of these Albanian criminals and their release from responsibility? I don't think she will, like she didn't react in any way when Ramush Haradinaj was released in her day, so when the decision was made that he not only had to defend himself from freedom, but he could do politics in that time. But I don't know if it's at all instructions for us to ask such questions, given that Vojislav Kostunica has abolized about 2,000 Albanian terrorists and criminals who have killed the Serb people, who have been convicted by law in accordance with all international and domestic legal norms, which have been granted the right to a quick and expeditional trial, which here, Dr Vojislav Seselj, is not recognised. I'll remind you that you're the conjecture, the presummation of innocence, which exists everywhere in the world, you've turned around, so there's a presumption of guilt with you, so you said, "Let it go nicely to The Hague and let it prove its innocence there." Dr. Vojislav Seselj has gone to The Hague, but here for three years he is not even allowed to prove his innocence. Then you let these Albanian villains, who had the right to an attorney, although they had the judicial verdicts, do not do anything to protect their citizens' rights and raise their voice, say - to our citizen, Dr Vojislav Seselj, the right to a lawyer is not recognised, he is not granted the right to meet with his legal advisers. Here, three years will pass since Dr. Seselj is in The Hague, not allowing him to meet with Alexander Vukic, who is one of his legal advisers, who should make certain films and install materials related to his defence. That's impossible, because there's no communication between them. The Hague tribunal, and not even The Hague tribunal, is not about the decisions of the search party, the appeal or any other one, but rather about The Hague tribunal's Secretariat not allowing Alexander Vukic to travel to the Netherlands. So, it's not even about the visa problem, Alexander Vukic could get a visa for the Netherlands, but the UN Secretary of the Hague tribunal won't allow him to enter the UN detention unit and meet with Dr Vojislav Seselj. I think you should show concern for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Besides, you're all supposed to be Democrats. You said you would equally advocate the rights of all, that you would take care of the state, of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think it would be high time you showed it in one appropriate way. So, in any place, when you already have those extraordinary international contacts of yours, ask yourself what's going on with our citizens. Did you care about Vojislav Seselj and your interest in him and his health, as well as the health of all others in front of The Hague tribunal, cease the moment you delivered them to The Hague, some with a bag on their heads, some without a bag. It's just that your behavior is totally inadmissible. To go back to this proposal. You're saying that you're going to provide adequate earnings and conditions for the work of judicial officials. I have to say that it's been a long time since that famous Batic's call and announce to the people that the judges will be paid 1000 euros, and not only has it produced no effects, at the time they were stamps, no euros, they produced only counterfacts. So, at the time I worked at the First Municipal Court, and I know what it was like for the judges to respond daily to the attacks of the parties they were saying -- what do you want, anyway, you have huge salaries, the judiciary is falling apart, the judgments of the late, everything is late. There was simply no working conditions. Judges are overworked with cases and should simply say that there are enough good judges. It's not true that all the judges are corrupt, that they're not good. But it's also clear that you have a problem in many courts today, that you can't find solutions for the presidents of the courts either, that the best candidates, or those who might be the best solution for the presidents of certain courts, don't want to apply and don't want to do the job, because they have to be politically similar, because they have to join certain organisations they don't want to do. That's what brings our judiciary into the situation it's in today. To give my colleagues some time to say a few words about this, I'll be done. I think that the Committee on Justice and, in general, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as you have declared here, that it should strengthen its supervisory function, but in order to do so, we are prepared from the SRS parliamentary group, but in order to do so, you would have to give the Justice Committee a little more discussion about some things and some judges. I remind you that by abolishing the Parliament of the right to propose to the judges, therefore, to propose the choice and resolution of the holders of judicial functions, you have removed a strong asset from your hands and left the National Assembly without the possibility of any control. You remember what the hysterical reactions of individual faces and organizations were when the few rights the National Assembly has benefited, which is that it does not pick any of those proposed. There was a real euphoria when we didn't select all the candidates we proposed. Then some of them wondered who they were in the National Assembly to challenge our proposals. If you want serious justice, if you want the situation to improve in the judiciary, that the situation is much better than before, that there is a judge's responsibility, you should also have a little more hearing about those suggestions that we've been making in the future. Unfortunately, some SRS proposals have already been included in this strategy, such as the continuity of deputy public prosecutors and others. When we proposed this, at the time the proper laws were passed, you were against it, now you realized we were right. Don't look at our proposals just to the opposition's proposals. We take our role very seriously, we realize that in a few months we will be in a position to exercise that power. We simply don't want to make things difficult for ourselves tomorrow, but this is exactly what we want to do with most of the work, which is waiting for us tomorrow, already today. So, also to Mr Palalic, as chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration of all of you from the ruling majority, I would like to advise you to pay a little more attention to the SRS proposals, and to take the role of the National Assembly and People's MPs more seriously to the Committee on Justice and Administration, and then the representatives of the High Council of Justice will look at us completely differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23654	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The People's Messenger Hranislav Peric has the word, and let the Messenger of the people prepare Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23655	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, today we are talking about justice and justice. Justice and justice are also in this Europe, where you're trying to take us, so today I wanted to talk about it, but there's no one here from the judiciary. The President of the Assembly always, whenever he has to take a commitment, often comes out. I'm not saying this for them, but I'll say, so let the public in Serbia find out about these events. Yesterday, a court, in which you swear, made a decision to free the criminals who committed a crime against the Serbs. I guess now you understand what The Hague court is and who will be tried by The Hague court. The Hague court will judge only Serbs and Serbia. In 2000. The Serbian government has in an illegal and unconstitutional manner delivered its political opponents to The Hague Court or The Hague tribunal. Mr. President, and I ask the vice president to pass on to Markovic, after yesterday's event in The Hague, especially what happened yesterday in Kosovo, you had to stop this session and put the new session on the agenda of an initiative that you received from 25,000 Serbian citizens to allow Slobodan Milosevic to be treated in the country. Do you care if a sick man is tried? Does each of our citizens of Serbia have a right to health? Where are the human rights that this government advocates, where there are many created organisations that are financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? What does this country pay them for, whose rights, whose rights? If we go deeper into that analysis, it turns out that all these NGOs, who receive good money, are fighting for someone else's rights, not Serbian rights. The release of Albanian criminals is a message to you in power of what will happen to Kosovo, whether there are any officials in the country to report on this issue. It is clear to everyone in the country that the request that comes from Carla del Ponte or Solana would all be broken by the haste to meet these requirements. I ask the state leadership to finally start taking care of Serbs and Serbia, and if the main pain is from its own, that's enough. In light of yesterday's events, where it was shot by an innocent young man as in an animal and this morning's events in Gracanica, where there are many injured, we ask you to interrupt the session and request information from the competent authorities and inform the MPs and the public what is happening on the part of the territory of the Serbian state? Today, a protest of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija takes place at 12.00 hours, and we as a Assembly should declare and support the protest of our citizens who are in grave danger. It is high time you took certain legal measures and directed the demarch to international peacemakers about the threat of Serbs in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23656	The word has a folk MP, Miljko Četrovic, and the last one registered on the lists is Momir Markovic, to be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23657	Respected MPs, there is no Justice Minister Stojkovic in the O.R., probably did not hope there would be any discussion during a motion to resolve judicial officials, who are on the agenda. In a debate yesterday on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy, which the government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted since 27 May 2005, the first opening statement by Minister Stojkovic and after the closing statement, he said there should be political will, good intentions and ultimately something to be done to prevent corruption in Serbia. It is incomprehensible that the minister of justice says there should be political will. Given the ministry's leadership, the Ministry of Justice is in some way the Ministry of Force, as well as the Ministry of Police, whether it is possible to speak at all about the political will or obligations and duties of all the judicial authorities to enforce laws and to force others in a state in which there should be a rule of law to behave in accordance with the law. The anti-corruption commission, which is with the government of the Republic of Serbia, has been working part of the job by revealing corruption, and under corruption in the state of Serbia, everything is reduced from the smallest bribe to the biggest theft and crime, to the robbery of dozens, hundreds of millions of euros, and even to billions of euros. What has been happening so far, and especially lately, that Bogoljub Karic publicly declares, in addition to what was happening here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on parliamentary mandates, that he will sponsor and give funds for the work of the Anti-Corruption Council, is an attempt to humiliate all citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. The state of Serbia has not existed since Bogoljub Karic, thanks to abuse and robbery during a previous period of funds for the development of Kosovo, Telekom, Mobtela, formation and so on. Karic Bank, an insurance company, the state of Serbia exists much longer and longer and must not be allowed to do so, instead of being where it belongs, that it is now making such statements that it will assist the Council on the fight against corruption. Thieves are now smaller in Serbia, and the biggest or the largest thieves are tycoons or oligarchs, depending on which part of Europe has taken that name. They are now ruling from the shadow of Serbia and they define the prospect here too many bill proposals, but they define that the government of the Republic of Serbia will decide to run the state of Serbia. This clearly says everything that has happened and related to the state's relationship to The Hague, where the entire state, military and police leadership and the SRJ and the Serbian state have been delivered either by force, or allegedly voluntarily, to be tried in The Hague. The previous government, the so-called government. DOS, DS, and this so-called. The democratic bloc has done its utmost to meet every request from the UN tribunal, both by handing in and handing out everyone they have sought, complete documentation, and even top state and military secrets. But she did nothing to help any of those present before The Hague court by delivering documentation and to help defend their own and defence state and Serb people. On the contrary, they did everything, which clearly shows that, out of the few who are from the Cypriot criminals and criminals allegedly in The Hague, Haradinaj was released to defend himself from freedom, and what we heard and saw on the electronic media this morning in the written media in Serbia, is the ultimate humiliation and achievement of the ultimate goal of those who planned and broke the former SFRY, and now they are trying to finally take away Kosovo and Metohija, and in some stage they are breaking the rest of Serbia's state. Is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not responding and that we do not have any reaction today after the Hague verdict is announced last night. This clearly states that the government of the Republic of Serbia agrees with everything that is happening in The Hague as well as with what is happening in Kosovo and Metohija. This last night for many Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija was a sleepless night. You can't just admit it to the scheming of Shiptar and celebrating this liberating verdict for criminals, who have committed not one crime, but many crimes in Kosovo and Metohija against the Serb people and others who are not Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija. There is no reaction from the government of the Republic of Serbia and to try to make it known to both the Shiptars in Kosovo and Metohija, and KFOR, and UNMIK, and the NATO Pact, and to Europe and the world that it will no longer allow killing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, massacre and that no final goal and plan will be achieved for Kosovo and Metohija to remain without Serbs. As the government of the Republic of Serbia has not reacted many times before, it will make it clear that all funds will defend Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, who have stayed there and who live in too difficult conditions, and that they will also demand that those who have escaped and exiled return to Kosovo and Metohija. Unfortunately, it is clear that those who are now on the negotiating team for Kosovo and Metohija have the clarity and plan they are ordered to hand over Kosovo and Metohija at any cost. Serbian citizens, the Serbian people will not allow that. As he cannot accept this parallel so that Professor Vojislav Seselj's trial doesn't begin for three years without in Belgrade in two years the trial of some members of the Zemun clan and they are released, so that after that, in electronic media, in written media, they have fled the country and no one has the right information where they are. What kind of state is this, what kind of M.O.P., what kind of prosecution, what kind of courts, not to mention the Special Court. The special court was allegedly formed to account in judicial proceedings under the law of organised crime, here's how much there is, what he has done specifically, how much he's brought to justice. With regard to the functioning of Serbia's judiciary, there have been many stories here, but everything has come down to the story. It is only an opportunity, when we had on the agenda a set of laws in the field of justice and when we had on the agenda the appointment of legal holders, but we had to take this opportunity today to again, for the sake of the Serbian public, the Serbian citizens, not for the sake of the minister, not for the sake of the government, to present a difficult situation in a large part of the judiciary and inaction and non-implementation of the law, and non-implementation of proceedings and final judgments. A particular problem is trade courts, and at their top the Higher Trade Court. The chaos and anarchy that occurs through trade courts is likely to be designed to allow this robbery through privatisation, through tenders, to end and without the establishment of even a little justice for most workers in Serbia, and to allow the kidnapping of many enterprises in Serbia to be in vain, to drive workers out into the street, to stay out of work, to pay, without any possibility for their and their families to exist. I have to bring back to the Iceman in the King, that icebox was bought by a criminal from Prepolje, and the great pain and struggle managed to get to the Trade Court in Belgrade, to file a lawsuit, and to get the Agency to press charges for termination of the contract. And finally, after a year and more, the Belgrade Trade Court reached a verdict on the termination of the contract. Now that "aware" customer is filing a complaint with the High Court of Commerce and that appeal stands for a few months, I mean four or five. With the great apology of the family of a "Fridge" worker from the King, who came with the president of the union and with a lawman from the "Colder", and unfortunately attached to his too difficult situation, personal and family, and also to the situation in "Frokers", where they have not received salaries and do not work for years, they have nothing, she has committed suicide. I have to meet the citizens of Serbia because we will not allow, the SRS parliamentary group of SRS, we will not allow people to commit suicide, and that a part of the criminals, thieves, with the blessing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian judiciary, the MUP, allow this to end and this robbery to end without any consequences for these thieves and criminals. Thieves who through auctions, tenders, have come to businesses in Serbia, and so far about 1,500 companies, do not generalise it, because there is one part where they have safely entered to continue production, to work and to receive salaries. They don't want to do anything, and nobody makes them do it. No wonder, if I am free as a National MP, with documentation and I have been living in the Kingdom for 30 years and I am working, I have challenged the proposal to re-elected Zlatan Dimitriic as President of the Trade Court. Here, most of the MPs who support this government accepted the proposal of the High Council of Justice, although even then when I came out for this pay phone, I kind of mentioned and warned Minister Stojkovic who came to the Trade Court for the King in the spring. It is essential and true that you, in fact, when you define yourself as Presidents of the Court, and I am not only talking about judicial functions, do not see at all the facts, nor the material evidence, nor the moral dignity or moral integrity of the proposed candidate. You are the sole goal of some personal trade between your parties to be held in power, and that is the price to be proposed and elected here, by you as most of you, the presidents of courts who are not worthy to perform a judicial function. It's one reality that now, and even before, the government is proposing to the holders of judicial functions and will most likely continue as long as this government exists and the majority of these exist. Serbian citizens, hundreds of thousands of workers who have lost their jobs, not their own guilt, who have created that property that has been taken from them for two and a half years, will not allow this to go suddenly. There must be extraordinary parliamentary elections, and I believe and hope that there will be a review of all privatisations, from first to last, and that will only be justice and truth, because justice must be served. Those who created property, businesses, built for decades, gave up in some way, can't now, in such a brutal, bestial way, run out of anything, and no action, no job, and no salary and no naked existence. There is no Minister Stojkovic, and there will be opportunities at the next session, there will be a proposal on the appointment of judicial holders, to ask him a question -- on which basis it is based and on which criteria and criteria remain the President of the Trade Court in Belgrade, Mr Kljajevic, bearing in mind everything that has happened in the Trade Court, the size of the court, the area that covers, and the excessive consequences for workers, both in business and in business. There are not so many courts, and general and special competences in trade courts, motions for resolution. Do the Council of Justice, the Personal Council, the Department of Justice, consider what it is? Does anyone follow the work of the courts, the work of the president of the courts, the work of the judges, whether it has criteria and criteria, whether it sees a moral likeness, I don't mean in that old ugly sense, but the human likeness of a judge being an example, a reputation in the middle where he lives and works, that everyone when they meet him on the street in some way greets him, and people when they enter a court building to enter, as they are called, into the justice building. When the villagers came to court, they took off their hats and the hat was taken off while they were in the courthouse building, by the front door. Who should they bow to now? Judges like this, court presidents, such a personal council, such a minister of justice and such a Republic public prosecutor, deputy public prosecutor, district attorneys, municipal public prosecutors, who are not allowed, will not or will not, or are in contact with thieves and criminals, or to launch investigative and investigative actions, to press charges, to conduct judicial proceedings and to finally be tried. Where are the criminal charges for tax evasion? We heard how many applications there were for money laundering. There were 12 of them for the whole year. How many tax returns have been made for tax evasion in Serbia for the last year without speaking earlier. Where criminal charges are, and court proceedings, and judicial convictions for violating the purchase agreement through auctions and tenders, alienation of property to tens of millions of dinars, and even in some situations millions of euros. There's no criminal proceedings, no convictions. What happens when the contract is broken, so if one part of the property is destroyed, kidnapped, went to a private account, sold the business space and sold to the locals. Who will return that property from that criminal to the state, or to the workers of that company. Is that what you're thinking, whether overnight those who sold others to become rich now, and that the state is silent, state institutions must not report, let alone initiate appropriate actions? We can't last long, Serbian citizens, and especially most of them living too hard, the situation is too difficult, not by its own fault, but by the guilt of the authorities, who allowed all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23658	Thank you, Mr. Four. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic, the last reported on the lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23659	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I will try to remind you of some facts. When you took a bulldozer through Belgrade on October 5th, you destroyed all state institutions, including the judiciary. On the basis of these broken institutions, you've tried to do something, and here we are today the state is limping. Today you are wondering why the judges and prosecutors are leaving the judiciary, the high-quality judges and prosecutors are leaving, and those who obey you, are leaving this Mrs. Mihailovic, who has been muddying Serbia wherever she has arrived and however she has arrived. Her place is reserved. She will either go to Jukom, or she will go to Natasa Kandic, and she will certainly have much more income than she had. You have recently gone and that Šcepančević, whom you promised, if he condemns Vojislav Seselj, will receive the post of judge of the district court. He condemned, though that verdict was brought down, and you failed to keep what you promised, and he went to the lawyers. A huge number of cases, the conditions for judicial work impossible, the number of cases is growing rapidly, and the number of cases mainly relate to petty crime, because you are not prepared to deal with large crime. You're not prepared to discuss Mobtel, to see whose it is and who it belongs to, and to arrest not only those who receive 230,000 euros a month, but those who gave it to him. If you go like that, you'll get caught up in the very top of your political parties and coalition partners very quickly. Of course, judges and prosecutors who have done their job fairly and honorably, who continue to do their job honestly and honestly, are mostly of no interest to you. Here's a chance to ask you what's wrong with Danica Maksimovic, the investigative judge who cleared up Račak, who proved that several dozen in Račka were burned in Krecan, several dozen Serbs who were caught on the roads to Kosovo, because they were not yet so organized, caught on the roads to Kosovo and took to Malishevo, from Malishevo to Klečko and in Klečka burned in Croatia. She proved to you that Racak was not what William Walker said, but that it was a fight against terrorists, a fight in which terrorists died and who later dressed up as civilian suits, then a hole in the body, but it wasn't a hole in the jacket. The same Danica Maksimovic, when she was expelled from Kosovo and came here, couldn't find a job for months and couldn't get her a job. You gave her a solution for three months, to finally give her a solution about a year and a half ago. I assume you've finally shown mercy and have one such expert deployed indefinitely. If you're not, then it's a disgrace to this government. I'm asking what happened to the prosecutor who worked the whole case with her. You walked him from the merciless to the unloved, from Chačka to the Kragujevac, and from Kragujevac to the King, etc. Is his question settled? I ask, by the way, when Danko Lausevic, Judge of the Fifth Municipal Court in Belgrade, will be released for his crime, which we have told you about and which Mr Krasic spoke of in one of the previous exhibitions. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the conditions in the judiciary are truly incredible and extremely difficult. I'm asking you when was the last competition scheduled for trainees, when the last time you let that young man of ours who graduated from law school get further professional and schooled. Judges and prosecutors are craftsmen. Not every lawyer can be a judge. Not every lawyer can be a prosecutor. You don't need it, because we've had the opportunity to see here that you've been deploying to the deputy prosecutor's offices and the judges' offices of agricultural cooperatives, school secretaries, people who are lawyers, and I'm not going into their expertise, but they've prepared and gained experience for a whole other branch of rights. Experts from trainees to senior associate, as it is called in the judiciary, remained waiting for a place to open. You didn't care about the experience, you didn't care about the profession, you didn't care whose party book he was carrying. If he was wearing a party book of your party or your coalition partners, he was very happy to be the secretary of the agricultural cooperative. One more thing that's about the judiciary, what are the judges and prosecutors' salaries? What are the salaries of the employees of the judiciary? Is it possible to put a head in a bag for that salary because criminals are being tried? Why can't this assembly be determined once so that the judiciary's budget separates and the judiciary has its budget. And not to share Dinkic with them on a spoon, so if they accidentally accuse or condemn one of his own, that month will be the opportunity to deny them. You're surprised at The Hague's decision. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, are not surprised. We have long told you that The Hague was created for Serbs, the same Hague you arrested, for which the Serbs kidnapped, for which you even brought the Sassovites, the Sassovci pensioners to arrest here in Serbia. I remember the moment when the indictment of Professor Vojislav Seselj was opened, and the night at Batajnica was filled with police and some of the civilian suits that hung around the police. You were preparing to kidnap him then. If it hadn't been for the SRS to stop it, the question is, what would have happened there? Then Professor Vojislav Seselj said, and he said in 1993-1994 he would leave if The Hague called him. Then he told you -- don't play with your head, I've got a convention, I've got a 23rd rally, and I'm going to The Hague on 24th. That man's been waiting for three years. He's accused of verbal deliction. There's literally nothing in the indictment that they can prove to him. He's been sitting in custody for three years, waiting for him to make up for anything. Here, in three years they couldn't find anything. Of course, he will sit until they have the courage to proceed with the trial. He's been asking for his trial from day one. That justice was in the Hague, but in June three years ago, his trial was about to begin. If you open a charge to anyone, the prosecution is prepared to file charges and prove it. You see what they do with Slobodan Milosevic, three times they connect him and separate the various parts of the indictment to somehow kill him. Tell me who the Serb went to The Hague and got rid of it. You've seen what's going on with Haradinaj. Haradinaj can also be allowed to deal with politics. He didn't kill. He only killed Serbs, the others didn't. Lejam kept the camp, shot whoever thought of it. He's freed now. Don't be surprised. Many of you have been sent away from here, sent away, "well enough" have surrendered, as you say, "good enough" with coercion and gone there. Look how many Serbs are waiting in The Hague right now. Their Shiplars are back. And their Muslims will also return, the accused. Soon there will be some other liberating verdicts to come, but there will be no liberating rulings for Serbs. Besides, why are you surprised at The Hague? You released 1,800 villains the moment you came to power. The dude was waving here - we're freeing now. He released 1,800. I remember that pardon that Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica signed. I can't remember the name now, but I was speaking for this speaker and showing the document. The man was sentenced to 15 years in prison, served in Nis for three years, Natasa Kandic came, she was a lawyer for that, otherwise, for Shiptar, submitted a request and Vojislav Kostunica pardoned him for 10 years, or the Supreme Court shortened him from 15 to 12, Vojislav Kostunica pardoned him for 10 years. Natasa Kandic, with that solution of pardoning prison, the prison manager says okay, but he has to serve another year. Natasa Kandic returns and Vojislav Kostunica pardons him for another year. Instead of abolishing that ten-year solution, if he wanted to let go, he would say that pardon was 11 years and three days. For the same act of the same man two pardons. There's no record of anything like that in the world's justice analysis, but it can happen with us. You let the Mazreka brothers, the same villains Danica Maksimovic questioned, prove their participation in Klecka. Who you didn't let go of. You let that Fjore Brovina go, he says, a writer and a humanist. From here, Nedeljkovicka followed her into a black limo, so as soon as she went there, she went to Haradinaj and held a press conference. Remember that. You have destroyed and destroyed all the pillars of this country's statehood. Here, the angry and the Putin. Now don't be surprised, but ask what Boris Tadic was saying to Putin, because he was there 10-15 days ago. You also brought down the last pillar we could get caught up in the fight for Kosovo's defence. That's a fact. The other day, thanks to you, when I watched the diary, I had the chance to at least feel uncomfortable. On the news, several hundred of our businessmen and a dozen of our ministers went to hold a fair of our economy in Moscow. Who met you there? Nobody. The mayor of Moscow didn't find it appropriate to go out. Sergei Shyg, Minister of the Russian Government, welcomed you for emergency situations. He only engages when floods occur, when earthquakes occur, when cholera, plague, rust, bird flu and Serbian ministers arrive. If, by any chance, a contract is signed by our businessmen there, don't brag about it. The foundations for co-operation with Russia were provided by Prof. Vojislav Seselj before 2000, before the Bulldozer of the Revolution, when he contracted economic relations with abroad as Deputy Prime Minister and signed a contract with Russia on the release from customs, etc. Therefore, and if one of our businessmen signs a contract, thank Professor Vojislav Seselj. By the way, Putin was angry with you about the treatment of Russian companies and the Russian economy in Serbia. Your Western friends wiped out your shoes and let you down the water, and along the way you didn't hold onto that green branch that could have pulled us out called Russia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23660	Since there are no more statements on the lists of parliamentary groups, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 93. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Before I conclude a single search on the motion for a decision, does the motionary want to give the final statement? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23661	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say just a few things about the work of the Justice Committee and some of the issues that have been raised here during the debate on the situation in the judiciary and on issues concerning the choice and resolution of judicial holders, so the work of the judiciary in general. I can tell you that the Justice and Management Committee has held about 50 sessions so far. All the members of the Committee, I can say this responsibly here, are excellent lawyers who know the problems of the judiciary and most of them all who have discussed today and the previous sessions have really touched some big and important issues in the area of justice. Even though we all belong to different political parties, we are mostly on the Committee on Justice and Management to conduct expert discussions. Regardless of the different opinions, I think that on some of the key issues concerning the problems in the judiciary, the functioning of the judiciary and the election and resolution of the judicial authorities, we generally agree. What's mentioned here more than once is that we choose the holders of judicial functions here, that we assign individual holders of judicial functions, I can say that's not true. Simply, the National Assembly can only plead on the proposal of the High Council of Justice, whether it accepts or does not accept the proposal, and it has indeed happened in the previous period that a number of proposed holders of judicial functions have not been elected precisely because both the Justice and Management Committee discussed it, mainly from the aspect of dignity, but also expertise. A certain political trade has been mentioned here. I can tell you that in the National Assembly, at least in the Justice and Administration Committee, there was no such thing. We were mainly discussing on the basis of those data that MPs were getting from their midst and on this basis we declared whether they supported or did not support individual candidates. I think that all the MPs that were out here probably had it authentic and probably got from their environments where they came from. It is important to establish the co-operation of all institutions participating in the selection and resolution of judicial holders and in general the judiciary, and the National Assembly, the Committee on Justice, the High Council of Justice, the Great Personal Council, the Ministry of Justice, because if Serbian citizens see that there is co-operation between all these institutions, on all these key issues, I believe that trust in the judiciary will be restored. What is an important issue and what is the problem, and what we have discussed several times on the Justice Committee, is the fact that in this meeting the Committee on Justice and Administration and the National Assembly were only two or three proposals for the resolution of the holders of judicial functions, relating to intricacy and unconsciousness. That's a question. We have information, and we have repeatedly asked the Great Personal Greater Information that a large number of procedures have been initiated before the Great personal council, but we have no information as to how these proceedings have been completed, and only two or three motions for resolution have come to us. Indeed, the question is, and we would like to know what the reasons were if these proceedings were interrupted or if they ended in a different way, rather than with a motion for resolution, which were the reasons for not proposing a resolution to the National Assembly. A large number of complaints from citizens arriving at the Committee on Justice and Administration, which concerns the question of whether the proceedings are being conducted in a legitimate manner, there are even allegations of corruption and suspicions of corruption, does not end with a resolution but simply closes within the framework of the Great Personal Council, whether by any other measure, which actually means returning that judge to work. In any case, it is true that the difficult material conditions for judicial work are, not only when it comes to the earnings of judicial employees, the holders of judicial functions, but also technical conditions. With a meeting held with the High Council of Justice, we have a series of data relating to the fact that a large number of judges do not have absolutely elementary conditions for working in their courts. This is when I appeal to the government of the Republic of Serbia to do everything possible to improve the material position of judges and the material position of judicial employees, as well as to improve technical conditions, so that those who make decisions in court proceedings would have the essential conditions to do so. In any case, I would like to say that the Justice and Administration Committee will do everything in its power to improve the situation in the judiciary. As I have already said, this committee is indeed very good lawyers, people who know the judiciary and all the discussions on the Justice Committee, regardless of the political differences, are guided by the expertise and what members of the Justice and Administration Committee know when it comes to the situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23662	I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. Since we have conducted a unique search on the draft decision, the National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision in general in the day to vote. Before we move to the next point, we'll take a break. We'll continue at 12.30 hours. [[After break – 12.45.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to the 8th point of the agenda: – Proposal for a LAW ON THE DESCRIPTIONS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a law submitted by the National MP Predrag Marković. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. According to MP groups, this is what it looks like: SRS one hour, 36 minutes; DSS one hour, three minutes, 36 seconds; DS 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and independent MPs 9+9 20 minutes, 24 seconds. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. To inform you of the authorised representatives: in front of the New Serbia parliamentary group and the 9+9 independent MPs will be MP Zoran Cirkovic; before the SRS parliamentary group will be MP Zoran Krasic, as I have now received the notice. In accordance with Article 140(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search in principle. Does the promoter, MP Predrag Markovic, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23664	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about the bill itself, I would like to ask for your understanding of what we have already attended the same act for the third time. My way of understanding this job implies that, with the full respect of all the national representatives who come to this Parliament in a democratic and legal way, the only possible by our law, so, after the presentation of the programme, the candidates for the pre-election lists, thus representing the number of citizens indirectly who can vote by law, and directly all those who voted, and according to the legal provisions and get their representatives in parliament. As you know, there are censorships, so part of the representatives of certain parties cannot enter, we have to respect that there is no other body than those of all citizens, and when they present themselves, any individual act, such as the Rules of Procedure that we are going to work on, any acts that we have adopted, any proposal of the law, as it is now before us, which fills a void that exists in practice, and the law provides for action, or authority. In that case, I ask, or I get, and I write down the support of all of you MPs, along with one proposal, as we all agreed together to return its symbols to Serbia, because it is our obligation to establish a state, of course, by arguing and arguing about what is most disturbing to the citizens - the economy, the key issues of institution building, but also in everything else that gives the framework of one state, including symbols and such powers as they are now. In these cases, I try to take on myself, not personally, but because I have an obligation to represent the National Assembly and all of you, to provide a professional argument for an area that is, as a rule, highly professional, to discuss in the political part, and ultimately to decide or not to decide. Then let me put myself in a situation where, no matter how bad the speaker is, and I don't have the knowledge of the matter that I'm exhibiting, on behalf of all of you, that if we're unique, in the end, about it, we'll stand behind it. If not, then I would certainly not allow this kind of thing, such as decorations, so, something that is shared with the responsible individuals and organizations, for merits, for the state, therefore, for some segment of what is our common job, I would not want in any way to have any ugly words, disunity. I've said my personal attitude here many times. Serbia, when divided about things that are not divided into serious states, is therefore not about political differences and concepts, but about something that makes the state framework, that Serbia suffers, regardless of how much later we can share guilt or merits. Before I say a few words about the law itself, I'd like to remind you of something that, sometimes in the debates, we all forget. The medals, as a rule, are always assigned to the level of power that the Constitution should symbolize the unity of the government. In our state order, it's the President of the Republic. From there, it arises, of course through the experiences of different countries, depending on whether the monarch, whether this is how the President of the Republic is elected or otherwise, is formed a whole series of bodies, offices of the Orders or joint offices of the Government, some competent ministries, depending on how it is settled in one state. It is certainly always that level of authority that must symbolize unity, someone who hands and represents the handing of insigns. Why am I telling you this? In order for such a level of government, with full capacity, to pay tribute to those who do something for their country, from personal heroism to credit in a particular area, and even in the area of legislation, it is necessary for that level of government to hand over that authority to someone with the greatest possible authority. Since in the debates, I say, we're often not aware, and neither are the citizens who represent who exactly, at first I'm just going to read you something that every one of you knows, which is the data for calling each and every one of you sitting here. This National Assembly, which needs this law to allow one authority under the existing constitution to be exercised, was called on the basis of a December 28th election. Of the registered voters 6,511,450 voted 3,825,471, the number directly represented in the assembly's assembly council, so those voters whose ballots they voted for today have MPs -- 3,2381, a citizen. On this basis, as you know, the government formed is a government voted for by 130 "for" of 244 present MPs, which means that the parties that gave directly participating representatives in the government represented 1,409,535 voters, with indirect support enjoyed at the time of the elections in parliament, the government represented 1,700,876 voters. The government, according to the law, is also involved in proposing faces, organs and organisations that can be decorated under a clearly defined procedure. That's why it's important. Of course, the president of the Assembly representing you is formally in front of you, he was elected by the votes of 150 of the 233 MPs present, and in the elections for the President of the Republic voted in the first round of 3.119,789 voters, in the second 3.159.194 voters. Far less than in the election for you, for the MPs. The elected president, who must represent, symbolizes unity according to the law that we are now presenting here, in the first round, directly for personality, has been voted by 853.584 voters, and on the basis of a second round of 1,681,528 voters. That's what reality looks like. That is why it is important when you propose an act like this, which according to the Constitution should apply at this historic moment, to some future historical moment, we do not know what the practice will look like, you have to take care of such data, and therefore it is important that the body that will certainly represent far more, hundreds of thousands more voters, or millions more voters, than for any other function, be indirectly through parliament for some office of executive authority, be directly in the elections, vote, and that when it brings one such law to bear in mind that, as a body representing almost four million of those who have expressed their will, it assigns the procedure of empowerment to those who have to bear it in mind, because it should be symbolically that these powers are passed to someone. The law in front of you is some kind of contractual obligation. He predicts that even the one who gives honor and the one who receives, and therefore there is a whole series of solutions, you have also seen in an explanation, enter into a mutual relationship. Because of the tobacco and the whole series of solutions, when it is announced, within what time a person was decorated, this time it was shortened, because we have experience from the previous period, when you know that because it was not well regulated, it was happening in Serbia right now that there was a name and an indication that it was decorated, and for several years that name has often been a member of an entirely different country's armed forces, which represents hostility to Serbia. So things like that wouldn't happen here, they took care of such little things. Why am I talking about these little details first? Because this draft, which is in front of you as a proposal on the traits of the Republic of Serbia, came after the consultation of a large number of heraldicists, experts who have taken the same care of each other, because it's as if you're defending someone from injustice, as well as when you reward them, it's important that you don't hurt anyone. When defending someone from injustice, you must not make a new injustice. As Mr. Momchilov mentioned several times here, what was the key first rule for doctors - don't hurt, don't heal, don't hurt, and also here you have to make sure you don't hurt everything that exists. And there are orderly orders, there are medals at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, at the level of Republika Srpska, at the level of institutions such as churches. There is also a dynastic past, so the history of the states from this space, so Serbia's history. It was necessary to make a proposal by experts to make sure that, when giving names to orderns, medals, they did not endanger the rewarded, decorated from these spaces of citizens, by whoever existing authorities from these countries or from these institutions that I have mentioned now, because it would be very bad for you to endanger, for example, the medals that someone received for personal heroism at the level of the state community or to undo the importance of the name of a single Order that exists in Republika Srpska, or that exists at the level of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. Finally, when this proposal is drawn up, what is the greatest credit for, heraldically, Mr. Acovic and his team, when composing it, it is calculated that in this area too, something that was indicated by members of different parties, correct injustice, one historical injustice. It is simply amazing that the founder of a single order of medals in the Balkan area, although ephemeral for a period of time, but the first medal at the Balkan level, was Emperor Dusan. The Order with the name of Emperor Dushan does not exist in the tradition of any of these state forms I spoke of, and that is some kind of injustice, and that is why this insignation, which should symbolize the unity of power, which is honorable, which is not for merits, but symbolises the place where you are, is given that name and it stands at the beginning. Although, if you were lucky and you had a detailed explanation, that Order, we can't do it because of our constitutional and legal position, otherwise that Order that shows the greatest merit in itself, which is the Cross of Karadjordjev, which in this way extends somewhere, and the historically significant distinction of the Karadjorjev star, the grandfathers of many of you were able to deserve it, so they know how valuable such an order is, therefore, continued that symbolic tradition, and he could be the first, once again, to say, that it is not our constitutional and legal position. He may not have to bear that name, then he would wear the term "orden of Serbia". It would be clear that it is the highest award for merit, not for the place where you are, but for the merits, but I say constitutionally-lawfully it is not possible and therefore it is found second in line, and otherwise it would be the first in line and in this proposal would be the order of Serbia, and then it would be clearer. I say once again, I will not read the arguments, I am certainly not someone who knows this very well, heraldically, Serbia's history, and I would not want to make any mistakes in this way, and I expect from all of us, when we are discussing it, and there may be opportunities for us to clarify certain provisions, why in this way, to explain both to the citizens and to our political parties. So, I don't want to talk about it right now, I'm inviting you as we consider this proposal to make sure that the Ordens have their own past and that we don't hurt anyone who's in this room from whatever level of state they've got. Also, if we are determined, and we will know it only in the day to vote, and perhaps during this discussion, to establish a full function of the state, including that one authority, which the Constitution exists and is guaranteed, can act, in order not to create absurd situations. If necessary, I'll tell you an incredibly absurd situation, which has hurt and who has given the Order and who has received the Order. But I don't think there's any need to talk about it right now. So if we are unique enough and determined enough, we will actually find ourselves in a situation to confirm some kind of self-respect, I don't think there's any difference between all the MPs sitting here. We're all eager to live in a normal state. And my call is, as if I'm all of you, that we've called together, as he said, you like to quote it, Jovan Jovanovic Dragon, let's plant a tree. We're fighting as we should. We are not safe and we are discussing, and only if we are determined will we know on whose land and how great. But since we're late, we need to plant a tree that's not a young man, but a tree that's already rooted, somewhere we can fit it, it won't grow right if we don't put in supporters, medals, as well as the Law on the Day of Grief that we've passed, a whole series of symbolic laws, like the laws that we're considering in this session, it's about the dictionary of the Academy, the encyclopedias, which might be able to make that tree stable, and then we say, by the tree, this is our country, don't you see, there's our tree. Thank you for your willingness to try it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23665	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Do the presidents or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? Yeah. ) First came MP Zoran Krasic, authorised representative of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23666	At first, I would just say that this bill came to the agenda of this session not even by emergency, but by turbo, turbo emergency procedure. Thanks, first of all, to the president of the National Assembly as a proponent of this law. If I were the legislator of some law, most people wouldn't even consider it, and it would wait like some bill that's been waiting a year and a half for them to get in line in some procedure. Of course the MPs voted for this, to put themselves on the agenda, and that is now your influence, Mr. President, the authority you enjoy with the MPs of the majority. I know it was awkward for you that they supported your proposal to put it under this urgent procedure, but that's what they put it on. Furthermore, if by any chance I had explained the law the way you started it, the chairman would have warned me on the subject. He would have warned me first if it wasn't on the agenda what the election results were a year and a half ago. If you wanted statistics to confirm some legitimacy, then you totally missed the subject. In the second part of your presentation, I was simply surprised that you're resigning, because you're making some recapitulation, what we need to do, how we did, you're talking about a fight. I didn't fight with anyone. I always come out here to state my position of the SRS and sometimes my personal position, and he may be contrary to the attitude of an MP, but not with an MP. I respect all MPs, as I have to respect all people, and I can share their opinions, and I can have the opposite opinion. If your election promise was one such law, then I fully understand why you insist on fulfilling all your pre-election promises, but your pre-election promises this side of the National Assembly do not commit. Next, you're saying we're fighting over some of the things that are bothering the citizens and that we're arguing here. Yes, Mr. President, but what's your initiative is probably the 12th hole in Vojislav Kostunica's play. In the first place is probably the fate of this state, the state-law status, the economic position, and I'm not sorting out all those other issues that are far more important. You have presented this in this way that this is also an important issue, not the slow importance of this issue, not the slow importance of the entire state policy, of rewarding the signs of people who certainly deserve it, as a sign of honor to this individual, and also as some stimulant to others, but in any case, both in one situation and another, as one system of promoting social values in the Republic of Serbia. It is probably clear to all of us that we do not want to argue that it is necessary in some way to give recognition to an individual, a group, an organisation that has undisputed merits for the development of this people, thus setting an example for young generations in which the social value system in the Republic of Serbia is moving. But you and I in the SRS have confused me with this bill. You finally said that in the end, what was the beginning when we received this bill was clear to us, that this was written by the Crown Council. Yes, Mr. Markovic, that's very correct of me. Why the Crown Council? Because the termology used here is quite archaic and I have nothing against that termology, and that's all I'm talking about as a sign of recognition, I like this termology. I share my opinion with the use of these terms, except for that Chancellor, because the Chancellor reminds me of the domination of Catholic action through the democratic parties in us by some hostile states. Anyone who understands will understand. What else surprises me about this speed and this proposal? You said that this is how some issues are systematically resolved, widely observed, issues of the social value system, and that the most responsible for it should be, and the most authorized of these things, should be an organ, yet I use that term, not an individual, but a body that symbolizes the unity of the government, the unity of the state, the unity of all citizens. You know, by the Constitution, we have an organ that represents and represents the Republic of Serbia. However, Mr. Markovic, in your bill of law, I have found no mechanism for us to protect the social values that you want to promote to order against the will or abuse of an individual who comes into that position, that he represents the organ. If there is a clear, why don't you say, and those tantanic mechanisms that would prevent abuse, and we in this room can't be naive, because more or less everyone has some experience in politics, some 15 years, some 20 years, some two years, and the one who has two years of political experience can't be politically naive. He, in addition to the good intentions promoted by some law, must also take care of whether such solutions allow for uninterrupted misuse of authority. Why do I say that? I was just about to applaud when you said it was unacceptable for a representative of the military force, some foreign country that is hostile to us, to receive the highest state honor of our Republic. I agree with you, but you didn't give us a guarantee. Now we can take that book by Zoran Petrovic-Pirocan, as it was, I mean "Serb Virus," and make all those statements that the peacemakers, the humanists put at the expense of the Serb people, not the authorities, start with that great actor Peter Justinov, who is the UNICEF ambassador, etc. He says the Serbian people are at the level of an immature animal, paraphrasing, but it comes down to it. I wouldn't be surprised if Cyrilov launched an action to award this man an order, some medal. I took the crap of Cyril, Borka Pavicevic, this Partizanka, she could do the same. That goes away and then we say what system of values it is. I don't see a value system dam here. I can't see the dam. Since I've been about able to tell you not to dispute your idea, I don't dispute the usefulness of this, but I'm slowing down some of the solutions that question this whole concept. I'll take my turn. In Article 4, you wrote that medals, great medals and monuments of the Republic of Serbia possess the quality of the moral character. The quality of a moral character is given as an assumption. So, the one who got the Order of Emperor Dushan, just by hanging up that medal, it means that an individual who has the quality of a moral person, as a person, as an individual, is a high moral person. Under this law of yours, by official duty, that Order shall be given to the President of the Republic. You're now interpreting whether he's always moral or immoral.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23667	Mr. Krasic, will you use the other ten minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23668	I'm going to try these ten more minutes to just try to convince Mr. Markovic that, if he can, he's withdrawing this bill, because I think this is premature.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23669	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23670	I think this is premature, and I'd like to ask everyone who participates in the debate to preserve the importance of these names and not make any improvisations. Probably, more or less, adopted or not adopted by this law today, probably at some point will have to be passed a similar law, probably with similar names of medals, so it needs to be preserved because these are all names that paint our history and we should respect our history and the characters of our history, who simply stamped this people and this country. That's not what I want to talk about. Now all I'm talking about is the prematureity and lack of mechanisms that need to preserve that particular individual's winning order needs to prove and that it keeps the quality of the moral character that's supposed to be on this, in a physical sense, expressed piece, I don't know, bronze, some plaques, etc. I don't see any guarantees here. I see competition, overvote, overvote in these medals, and you systematically have put the Order of Emperor Dushan on that person elected President of the Republic in the elections. I must say, since you do not accept our initiative to talk about our President of the Republic, he would prefer the Order - mirrors, mirrors, who is the most beautiful in the world. He'd be more comfortable with that medal. It's not for the amendment, so we haven't written the amendment, it's not for the amendment because of Emperor Dusan and because of our history, etc. You wrote in law that the one who's president of the Republic can immediately hang that medal. He has the right to do it for life. And what happens if that person is called off in a Republic referendum because of the obvious violation of the Constitution, the law, because of disrespect for human rights. I took this example since it's obvious, I can go with other examples, consistent with the order of medals, medals and monuments. I took this as the most recognizable thing. A few days ago, you did not accept our proposal to be placed on the agenda, for example, the point of initiating the impeachment procedure of the President of the Republic. He answered you immediately that evening in a unique way, making you know what he thinks of you as a majority, not of us as a minority. We don't have hideouts with him. Whenever there's a statement that's against the people, against the state, against the military, against this, against that, we slap him from this pay phone. We do politics, and we have the right to criticize everyone for what he did bad for this people. He made a scandal in Moscow, you know, and everybody, you don't have to read the paper. Now, he should be wearing the largest Order of the Republic of Serbia. How can he do that? We believe it is degutant to enter a provision, where some person who received the highest medal in the Republic of Serbia, after some time, is taken away from the Order. It's an insult to what you wrote, the quality of a moral face. That's the insult. That's why I'm telling you, Mr. President, I appreciate your good intentions, but this is premature for our current socio-history moment. Too soon. Now I'm making this link between archaic expressions to the people of the Crown Council who have accepted that termology. If we're the Republic, then you can't start with the word "head of all orders." It's not working. That you said, whoever assigns, decides, etc., the organ, but the chief, she joins the Ace Gice. I know that this country runs an action until 2008 to make Serbia a monarchy, more or less public, but this action is being conducted. That's for sure. There was some sort of change in symbol, but I don't want to open that topic. There is nothing of it, remember, with us the monarch changed by taking out his father's eyes or killing his father or killing his son. Our bad experiences with the monarchies. We have been the Republic for so many years, the SRS is a party representing the republican form of an organisation of the state. It's our political stance. We have nothing against Karadjordjevic, nor if there are living Obrenovics, we have nothing and I express a simple political stance. It says in Article 10 of all medals, grand medals, medals, and monuments of the Republic, it is exclusively the responsibility of the President of the Republic. Look, I'm not supposed to think that in my sleep. Not only this, but every future president of the Republic, because our experiences are very dangerous when an individual gets those powers. Mr. President, let me just warn you of some undeniable facts. We had one President of the Republic who had a complete opposition and the public disputed both the president of the party and the President of the Republic. Today we have a president of the Republic who is also president of a faction in his party and no one is questioning him that he is the president of a faction in his party. We had a situation about how the president of the Republic could live on Santa, so the students went to give him a letter, and they caked, and then they congratulated him on his birthday, and so on. Now we have a man who, even before he became president, immediately fled to Santa's and no one's saying anything. There's no one to finance, there'd be a riot, but there's supposed to be a fund-raiser, like last time a student protest funder showed up. How can I trust this President of the Republic when his chief advisors, this Shaper and this, machine engineer, yellow Gilas, are now being expelled from Telekom, the Greeks banished them. The Greek saved Serbia in Telekom, because they wanted some programs to fly there. They're just hanging out. If you want to turn the people's office into an Orden office, Mr. Markovic, don't do it. They'll turn that around in no time. What's the DS binding? They just love themselves and nobody else. I can't live with anyone. They don't have coalition capacity, as they say. Who can go with them? They've fooled everyone. What are they doing now? They only go abroad and bark against Serbia, against both the authorities and the opposition. It's DS. That's what you all know, you all felt on your skin. You have a provision that says that the MP of the National Assembly during the term of office cannot get, etc. At this point, I really need to be a little bit maligned. Why didn't you prescribe a medal for these flight attendants, who are given official duty? It became, you see, you did watch the show last night, it became an "in." I went with one party, went to church and swore. Let's at least bring in the criminal medals, the Dicka Flyer, the Messenger of the Flyer. We have it here in the Assembly and now we are legitimate to have to go on a medal. I'm really sorry that it might seem to devalue someone's initiative. Mr. Markovic, I don't want to devalue your initiative at all. The medals and this issue are seen as a system of values of the Republic of Serbia, a widely accepted system of values of the Republic of Serbia. In order for it to be a widely accepted system of values, Mr Markovic, you had to contact all MPs. Chairman, if you'll excuse me, I'll only use one more sentence, you won't mind. Be careful, the President of the Republic can disband the Orden Council. Furthermore, no one can suggest themselves to be decorated by any order, great medals, etc. You don't have any protective mechanisms, and you have an abuse, like, about, here you go. Mr. Markovic, we cannot support this law, but we advise you - withdraw this bill, consult on heraldic grounds. I don't dispute heraldic bases, I don't dispute that you've inserted some new names that associate with some of the old ones. It's wonderful, it's beautiful, it's a reflection of our statehood. Drag this bill, call the presidents of parliamentary groups, make an agreement, and believe me, a similar law, with tananical mechanisms in place to protect this initiative from devaluation by some individuals, and there are those who will abuse it, then we can pass such a law here with a vast majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23671	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic, as a promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23672	Thank you for your precise and thoughtful view of the history of exposure. Let me get this straight. Moral face isn't a moral character. We're talking about something else here, and that's what I tried to say. So, the Order has moral status. In some countries there are also holidays of certain medals. It's about self-respecting the country. That's why I just said that we're making a difference and that, under this law, he predicted it to be some kind of mutual obligation. That's why there's a possibility of a way to take away and a way to advance. In the order system itself, there's a reason for this Article 4, you pointed to that attitude that exists in reality, which is now the practice of the Order has shown, two types of order. Every medal follows the merits, but in practice it's not always real for merit. In all countries, that's the way it is. Some medals are a function order, because it's understood that you have an obligation, because as you normally deserve to be in that place, so that you can represent yourself. They're protocol medals. There are these others. That's why there's also the Tako Cross and the Karadjordje's cross, so that everything that's significant in history is confirmed. It's not, in that sense, any kind of dynastic. On the contrary, it was done. As part of that, I am an order, because it obliges one who gives and one who receives, commits to a relationship to the Order itself, he has a status of moral person. You can't bother that some citizens who are in state functions are meant to have come to this credit, but it's not the credit for which a member of the police, a police officer, a customs service, an armed force, a fireman, will receive a reward for his personal courage. There's a whole series of medals and medals. It's something you deserve or someone who, working on a particular job in a professional, scientific, educational institution, really deserved something. How do you define that? That's why there's been a difference in this proposal. There are protocol medals for merit. So it is understood that you deserve to be in one place, and the protocol belongs to you a certain distinction or a certain medal. And you have a concrete credit. This is where it is now established to be published within 60 days at the latest, so that what happened to the enemy faces, which I was talking about, is not happening, and you were talking about it. Secondly, to put this text of reasoning to the public. The procedure of the proposal, however it is the holders of the procedure under the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, following a proposal by the resolution ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This applies only to those ministries that have, if I may say so, in the service of those who are constantly in a position to be able to deserve personal courage. First of all, it's the police, customs, fire departments. It's just that these ministers, we don't think it applies to all the ministers. And, on the proposal of the office of the Order, which includes initiatives and proposals from the Orden Councils and honour councils. In principle, this law establishes a principle and that principle is ancient. You like it, I like it too, because only countries that have traditions can activate names, first of all, with things like this, names they have in their history, symbols, because they have them in their history, because they have long statehood. Thanks to this, it was possible for us, of course, to agree on different details, after agreeing with the heads of all parliamentary groups, to have our coat of arms, to have our own flag. Of course, we think differently about some of these details, but some countries can't, because they never had a state, so they don't have those symbols either. We, hopefully, all advocate to preserve what we have, not giving it any other connotation. With all due respect and respect to the way you said, so we don't want to give a second connotation, I hope. Is it too late? So the procedure is complicated, she goes through the office of the Order. Where did that name come from? You have an explanation, but I don't want to get into this persuasively, it's not correct. You have the statutes of the Order. Those statutes, the way they come. Members of these orderly councils are either decorated persons, not to go into the details of the procedure, or persons from that area that are due, metric. It's very difficult to abuse. It's a different term, it's a term that says, so that's where you get insigns, except for special powers, and it's the one who hands out insigns who's the head of all the Orders. It is a symbol of unity, as the Constitution says, that someone symbolizes the unity of something. But in fact, the procedure is so complicated that it shouldn't, plus a limited number for a certain kind of distinction, a limited number over one year should in no way compromise the merits and the possibility that those who deserve it should get it, and that authority establishes the Serbian government by means of a sublegal act. It's not directly influenced by the formation of any other level of government. Is it too late or is it too early? I'm taking all the reviews, so I said it all over again. That's where our attitudes differ. Don't get me wrong. From your point of view, you've made it clear what your obligations are. But like when we live, so I live down in the basement, at the bottom of that ditch, and you live on top, and that's how it happened to us, in Rakovica. In contrast, we enjoy the status of citizens and neighbors. That's where we happened. Here when we sit, sit down now Mr. Zankov, and thank him so much for helping as vice president today, from this place he has other obligations at this time and must meet them. I thought as long as I was in that place I had an obligation on behalf of all of you, of course speaking. Sometimes a procedural agreement is necessary, sometimes it's not possible, because you know some MP groups sometimes find themselves in a situation, it's their thing, that they can't participate in some work, and I don't want to do unique things to endanger anyone, and that's why I said it this way. It's my duty to, since I believe from that place, because I think it's too late, not that it's too early. When something in the Constitution is 15 years old and you don't have a law on it, I think it's awfully late. We can certainly maintain our understanding, but I said last time here, you're right about some things when you're young and some when you're old. As a young man, you have the right to imagine that marriage is a crucial story, what a groom looks like, young, what music it is, that it is a great pleasure and love. When you run a family you have a responsibility for it, then you know that a wedding is a terrible complication, where they live, from which, who will pay for the music, and of course you risk that when the wedding passes, it's only about whether the bride threw up at the wedding and whether the groom got drunk. When you're preparing a wedding, it still obliges you to take care of where the tent is, where the bar is, from which the money, a lot of practical things to make a simple wedding work for your child's future, let alone how the state manages to do some things, infinitely complicated to do something, so that's why we're all different here, so we all say something together to sort it out. It's the same story for the funeral. Someone's got to take care of it. He doesn't just regret it, he has to take care of what tomorrow, what next week. A lot of us have been through this. That's why I'm asking you, I don't expect everyone to listen to me and everyone finds their way, but with all due respect to each other that people always in serious families, in the serious state, are always ready for the wedding and the funeral. So you always have a candle in your house to light it when it's famous or to light it because someone died. But there's always a candle in the house. It's a matter of responsibility, I believe you're responsible. That's why this is going this way. It's possible that I did something too fast for myself. I may have been too late already. It was my duty to propose to the MPs now, because I'm worried it's too late. Otherwise, you're right. I talked individually about this subject with the heads of the parties and the parliamentary groups of all here, individually, and the truth is that there has been this proposal for four months, so formulated by experts, not by some advice, but I thought it might be good now for the Assembly to decide whether to put it on the agenda, as I believe it's good for the Parliament to decide whether we're simply going to put another backer on the tree that we had to transplant, because they left it to the old one, so it doesn't rot the root by chance in the meantime.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23673	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23674	Mr. Markovic, it's all true what you said, but we who are at the top of the hill see better than you who are beneath the hill. You understood me well, but you tried to do a little bit of dilute what I said. And let me tell you right now, this bill of law does not have a clear constitutional basis, and you are aware of that, and that is why, in the light of this law, you have called upon one member of the Constitution and one point, to see how this is defined. "The Republic of Serbia provides other relations of interest to the Republic of Serbia." This is really the fastest interpretation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not arguing, let's get this straight. Your reasons for passing this law are contained in two rows. "The adoption of the law on the traits of the Republic of Serbia is necessary for the reason that there is no republican regulation governing this matter." So this is why the Republic of Serbia can't breathe. What you will never get the consent of the SRS regarding this bill you yourself wrote in the reasons for certain provisions of this bill. Now I'm going to read you what you wrote in an explanation for Article 9. The bill of law, and only one part of it, where it's said about this Order. "In view of the lack of a date of entry into force of this law and the entry into force of the current President of the Republic, the first investment would be carried out on the date of the entry into force of this law." So you care as soon as this law comes into force to please Boris Tadic with the Order of the Emperor Dusan. What radical is going to vote for that? What socialist is going to vote for a bill like this? There's a little difference in your morale reasoning in Article 4, final attitude. I've always talked about the face, not the guy. Maybe we didn't understand each other. Let me just remind you of what everyone knows. There were elections for the President of the Republic. In the first round, he won, with more votes Tomislav Nikolic than Boris Tadic. You read that statistic a little while ago. Then in the second round everything against Tomislav came Mr. Tadic, elected president. For a month he was preparing, there he was renovating, changing things that when he entered, His Majesty, it was all a chakram, so the inauguration was like we were choosing the head of the Roman Catholic Church. It hasn't been ten days, she cohabitation, tolerability, turned into him and his party saying, "I've been elected President of the Republic by the will of the citizens, what you've now got to call me here." He forgot five minutes after the election that all of you who called on both membership and citizens to vote for Boris Tadic. You now want to retroactively apply the law. The law will enter into force on the eighth day of its publication, and the order will be awarded to the current president. And it's all moral. Well, it's not moral. It's not all moral, Mr. Markovic. It can't be like that. You say a complicated procedure, you think a complicated procedure is a guarantee that it doesn't go wrong. No, I don't. We have a law on public procurement - legalized crime. It came through the system -- we're going to have to, like the whole normal world, rewrite the Slovenian law on public procurement, and a few days ago, Junior said -- the worst law we've ever signed was the law on public procurement. He confessed before he went to change clothes after he got messed up. You were there when he said that. He said -- the worst law we've ever translated is the law on public procurement. He's the source of all possible abuses. Everyone in Serbia can draw you a scheme of abuse in public procurement, from tendering, demands, selection of proceedings, to decision-making, to subsequent works, to payment, to payment of payment fees, the elaborates can be written. Here, who will protect the system of values in this country from possibility, not possibility, quite certain condition that some will get some medals and fear Serbian citizens with these traits. You can imagine when the fucker gets the medal, he scares the citizens of Serbia. That's why it's much better, Mr. Markovic, for you to pull this nicely, because it's quite obvious that this is premature. You didn't understand me very well in that part. If you push this law to the muscles, I don't know if the president will then say five terms are disputed. He changes his mind for a moment, once he wants to sign the law, and the second time he won't sign the law; once you steal the mandates, the second time you fake it; once it's this, and the second time it's that. I don't know if this law will say I don't accept an order to declare this law, because it's a disputed five terms. Can you imagine how Boris Tadic's moral face would respond to where he should be given? If it weren't for real now that someone has something against the president himself, but he's the most picturesque example of pointing out the shortcomings of this bill, and they're being looked at in that there are no mechanisms to protect these medals from possibly their carriers. That's a bigger problem -- how do we protect the Order from the bearer who can get that Order? That's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23675	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23676	Just to be clear, therefore, the Order of the Emperor Dushan is spoken of, is intended for protocol needs at the level of heads of state and government, named after the founder of the medieval Serbian Empire and the great legislator. That's why it's important for this legislative body to bring. So it's a protocol order. Of course, since he further discusses that he automatically belongs, when he enters into office, as a surrender of insignium, as when someone is chosen as a lecturer and automatically wins, it is, therefore, completely clear. Of course, there's always reality, it's said - what happens now? Now, on the day of the law's entry into force, it's done. To just figure out what's real and what's law, I'll just say it for a second. I thought I wasn't going to tell you, but I'm going to have to. What's going on now? That's the law, I was in V.D. The president, the person who helped this country, I will not enter into explanations, citizen, the need to give him a thank-you hand in a short time. Please don't hurt the people who helped this country. Do you know what it looks like? I was uncomfortable, because that means asking for an explanation, writing at the level of the state community, here's the result -- in that solemn salon, where many of you were, you have that non-existent president, at that point it's me, like V.D. Because the president has not been elected, I am not entering why, the non-existent president of the state who wants to be established, with all its sovereignty and seriousness, that state, handing the order to the decision of the existing president of the non-existent state, the President of the Council of Ministers, I mean nothing wrong, but it's simply a fact. And the Order, which hands over the citizen who helped, is a state order that hasn't existed for 15 years, with symbols that haven't been in use for 15 years. You don't know who you're hurting anymore. So one is reality, and the other is self-respect and dignity. I only speak here in that sense. That's why I believe I'm not too late, the way you think I totally understand it's too early, but I think everything you can do today applies to each of us, let's do it, I don't think tomorrow will be too late. But if we don't, it'll be too late anyway. That was my only motive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23677	The word is from MP Zoran Cirkovic, authorised representative of the New Serbia parliamentary group and independent MPs 9+9. Here you go, Mr. Zirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23678	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Markovic, as an authorised legislator of law, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid confusion, I will speak as a representative of New Serbia. Of course, I do not dispute the MPs of our parliamentary group, who were our pre-election coalition partners, to accept my presentation as part of their position. Let's talk about one important thing. It is certain that such a law is needed by the state. A well-organised state has law on medals, medals, medals, etc. Following our continuity, he does come at the right time, for the simple reason that this congregation in the previous assembly passed the Law of State Holidays. This assembly, in this assembly, because of the rigidity of the existing law, has made a recommendation on the use of national symbols i.e. flags, coat of arms and anthem. This recommendation has indeed fallen to fertile soil, for the simple reason that the old symbols provided for by the Constitution, which is still, unfortunately, valid, no one uses anymore, and the new symbols prescribed by that recommendation, are used at every opportunity. It is understood that we, as a sports nation, will enjoy the sport field when we hear the anthem "God of Justice" and that we finally don't have to whistle our anthem and let someone do it, the one who doesn't love this country, and this is our country that we all, by nature, have to love. Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest to Mr Markovic, if he is the author of the text – not to you, Mr Markovic of the SRS, you cannot be the author of such a clever text – because I remain on several remarks, so that we can consult, simply to smooth out some terminologyal discrepancies, to arrange a law of distinction so that he does not create confusion, to make a complete distinction in the hierarchy of medals, that at last anyone who reads this law always knows what it is. It would be good, assuming that you have the right to intervene with the amendment, that if you accept my suggestion, and I suppose the suggestion of most of you, since I'll be sufficiently reasonable to explain it to you, then you could change it now. If you don't accept, the law can get our support, but it can cause confusion in public. What's this about? I agree, therefore, that if we were to divide all the medals and all the medals in the hierarchy into three groups; indeed, from the largest to the smallest one would go this way: medals, large ones, or perhaps high medals; perhaps the definition of "higher" is more precise, but I don't care, it can go "large"; in the third place are medals. I wouldn't even mention the monuments, because the monuments are brought in by ad hoc, and the head of state can bring them in, to power some resolute ministry for that. It says here for one-time use. Of course, I wouldn't be disqualified like that, but monuments don't even have to enter the list of medals. Let's get back to things. Ordens - remain truly the variant that you have proposed, the greatest medal is the Order of Emperor Dushan, or simply Colloquial it would be the Imperial Order. Then, the Order of such a cross or such an order. In third place, the Order of Merits of the Republic of Serbia, I would call it the State Honor Order. If we were to discuss this matter now, simply all three medals in their full name have three words and the matter is quite clear. We have three medals, three of the highest medals in the Order. When I said state honor, I guess that's better than credit for the Republic of Serbia. But finally, I don't argue if we keep this name, but I say for a short while, this one seems to be more efficient and effective. When it comes to great or high medals, you suggest that it be Karadjordje's cross and Dosite's medal. No need to change the name in tradition, the greatest medal was established after the establishment of the monarchy of Karadjordjevic, after the May coup in 1904, was the star of Karadjordjev and the name Karadjordjev's star can remain, as such a cross established by Prince Michael 50 years after the Takavi uprising, called the Takovski Cross and now his name has not been changed. It would remain a Takowski cross, because it's our tradition and it would remain a Karajordian star that's our tradition. In this rank of high, or great medals, we would have the star of Karajord and Dosite. Why do I think Dossy's star is better than Dossy's medal? For the simple reason that you're speaking as the legislator of the law about that third degree medal, so if the medal is the third degree, we can't push it into the second degree right now. In fact, we can, I know that lawyers can do anything they vote on, just like we people's MPs. I say, because of precision, if it's a medal, then it's in the third degree, if the medal can't be pushed into the second degree. Of course, in the third grade, after the medals and the grand medals, we have medals. Again for short, you say - the medal for the courage of the Republic of Serbia. Let it remain only a medal for courage or courage; a medal for saving lives, a medal for humanity, or if we want to be more fond of the spirit of our tongue, it could be a medal for humanity. In fact, these three medals are from that rank, they're just listed like this. It's a three-degree medal. Here he says, the medal for prominence in the service. I say, a medal for work or a medal for work. Heraldically, all Serbian medals should be arranged, taking care of our national state-of-the-art tradition. Of course, if these are the qualities that the congregation brings in these times, then they must have the qualities and spirit of this time. So here's what we stand for. New Serbia, as a monarchist party, is ready to welcome this news from Mr Krasic, whom we did not know, that in four years our country will become a monarchy. It's news of joy. If that doesn't prove true, we're left with grief, the informant has deceived us. When it comes to the medals that follow in protocol, well, of course, the head of state as the one who hands the medals must wear the greatest medal. He must wear the Order of Emperor Dushan, because it belongs to him by formation. When it comes to your boss, Mr. Toma Nikolic, he's already decorated, he's the duke, which he wants more.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23679	Proposer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23680	Just one explanation, Mr. Cirkovic. So it's detailed, for reasons I've explained, that they don't hurt or disrupt the medals that exist. Why not Karajorjev's star? Well, of course, that's what I said, there would be, not only in tradition, but there's a Karadjorjev star now in Republika Srpska, and that's why you can't, you have no right to moral, no state. Why the stairs? They're inside where two can go, where three can. And finally, I understand your insistence on this distinction, it's all in certain areas, it already exists in practice. So, for the courage expressed in carrying out the duties, these are the medals for which according to the law, one who is the head of the Order, to speak, wherever that name is placed, he gives authority to the competent ministries, so the minister of police on the day determines all those responsible for receiving the medal for courage, the life-saving firefighters, the finance minister for the involvement of a customs officer. That's why it's done according to the usual procedure, otherwise it's passed on. Thank you for paying attention that I can explain, he didn't want anyone to be offended when it's said -- monuments are for single use, but monuments are by authority, depending on whether the office, whether the minister, for some reason, is about 100 years the existence of the Red Cross, in that sense for single use, so it's allowed to issue 10 monuments by the minister in charge. In that sense, one time, because it's only one hundred years. As we did last year, only once, 200 years, can't go on all the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23681	Replica, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23682	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's much more important who tells you than he tells you. The predecessor, I mean not the proponent, Mr. Markovic, but the previous debater, saying that Mr. Markovic from the SRS can't come up with this clever text. The text can't be smart, it can be a smart proposal, or an author of the text. But you shouldn't expect a man who has shown basic ignorance behind this particular speaker when we discussed the one about joining the EU, when he said - people, Mongolia will enter the EU before we do. He doesn't know Mongolia's in Asia, it's not in Europe. Tomislav Nikolic, my dear sir, deserved the highest honor of the moment he entered the fight against criminals from your government. I listened to Tadic and Velya the other day, and I can tell you that they're both right. This guy says he's a criminal, and this guy's a criminal, they're right about each other. I don't think people like this from these minor parties really need to go out anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23683	Mr. Zirkovic, on what grounds? It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23684	So my predecessor simply cannot respect the dignity of this congregation and the dignity of the speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23685	This is Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23686	Calm down your party buddies. So, I'm surprised that Toma Nikolic is a double laureate duke. This second act was credited against my government. For the first one, I just didn't have a government. That government wasn't mine. That's what you said. I'm simply using your formulation. So, against the government, the government's majority to which my smallness belongs. So that's it. We've made this perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23687	Thank you, Mr. Cirkovic. Just one more moment, please, I'd like to inform you that, under Article 93(4), they are in agreement. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing with the order of MPs, submitted parliamentary groups of SRS, New Serbia's own MPs 9+9 and the SPS parliamentary group. The first speaker will be the People's Messenger Zoran Ćirkovic, and the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajic. Now I'm setting a break to 15.05 hours. [[After break – 15.20.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We're going in order from the list of registered speakers. The first registered speaker is MP Zoran Ćirkovic, and let MP Vojislav Milajic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23689	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the 1990s and the entire decade, the Serbian democratic opposition has advocated that Serbia's constitutional and legal position be fully defined. The law we're talking about today is in order really in the last place, for the simple reason that there are more important things. But, of course, no state can, without its representativeness, present itself to the world unless it has its symbols and finally its medals. That is why our commitment is to make things clear in this law, so for this reason we insist, with the legislator's agreement, that we agree, and with agreement with all parliamentary groups, and with the goodwill of all MPs, it would be good for this law, as well as a recommendation on state symbols, to bring consensus. That would talk about our seriousness. After all that we have experienced, after the discrediting, which is mainly caused by some irresponsible MPs and some irresponsible self-response leaders, it may be an opportunity to demonstrate one unity on this small manifestation law. For that reason, I suggest once again that we just make a clear language distinction and that what we say means as we say. So if we're talking about three groups among the medals, then the medal that belongs to the third group can't stand nominally in the second group. That's the thing I've been talking about, and I don't need to convince that thing again and especially insist on it and elaborate on something for the longest time. It would just be good if we did it so we don't create confusion. It would be even better if all the medals, no matter how much you dispute, sometimes out of evil will, etc., had essentially a dynastic aura. Why are we hiding it? We're talking among our medals about the Order of Emperor Dushan. Of course, it symbolizes the German dynasty, and it was a large dynasty, a state-of-the-art one that created the first Serbian state. The Order of the Takovo Cross, it really represents the first royal dynasties of the modern Serbian state and the Order of the Karadjordjev star, i.e. a great medal of the Karadjordjevz star, as it stands in the bill, clearly symbolizes the Karadjordjevic dynasty. We have no reason to give up our dynasty. It's our history. Serbia has always been a monarchy in its history until the communists came. You know that the monarchy was not abolished by the good will of the voters, but ended by revolutionary violence. Nevertheless, my party, as a monarchist party, does not insist on changing the form of government. It will be decided by Serbian citizens. But we advocate, when this law is on the agenda, that precise provisions be established that establish medals, medals and medals. It's the subject of our commitment. I really don't want to get into any controversy unless I'm unjustly challenged. I call on us to demonstrate the unity that Serbia needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23690	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Hranislav Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23691	Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you have been appealed to the unity of all the parliamentary groups for the adoption of this bill. However, the proposer himself was to consult the heads of the parliamentary groups and consult before the formal proposal and enter into the assembly procedure, in order to agree on all the details of the text of this proposal. Here the SRS has a series of objections that might come down to the following. There are some things that are not defined by law, and should be defined. There are some things that are too regulated by law, formalized, with a large number of bodies participating in the proposal and decision-making, awarding medals, medals, medals; the formation of new authorities, state bodies, as stated here in the Bill proposal, which should regulate the entire area of the award of medals that are in the function of the President of the Republic. One principled remark, which is a large number of foreign words used in this law. Now, for what reason, I don't know exactly, it could have been done in our own language to describe and edit and to make the law understood for all Serbian citizens. As for the failure to define certain things, first of all, it was necessary to define what they are, which is the occasion and why they are given. One definition was to be given, which would be a guideline for one who performs a medal, which is according to the Constitution of Serbia, the President of the Republic. In a way, this should be the idea of guidance for those who suggest physical or legal persons for the assignment of certain honours. There is a federal law on distinctions, and it was passed during the existence of the SRJ, and the Republic of Montenegro has its republical law on distinctions. Both laws are much simpler, and the procedure for proposing and assigning decorations is simpler than this bill provides. In addition to what it was meant to be, which is likely to be a failure of the promoter, citing what are the medals, great medals, medals and monuments, it is said to be taxing which are the distinctions and the existence of degrees and categories. However, there is no indication of the highest degree. If you have five degrees, which is, is first or fifth. It should also have been stated and it exists in this federal law, a very explicit provision and says that the highest degree is the first degree. As for the way in which medals and powers are granted, which the President of the Republic has in the award of medals, it should be said that the Constitution of Serbia provides for this and that this is the exclusive right of the President of the Republic. It should be reduced to the fact that the decision to award a medal is made by the President of the Republic, which is made public, is announced in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The whole procedure should be completed, with the proposals being government and ministries, and the initiative being submitted by anyone. It's a much simpler and faster way. This is where new institutes are now introduced, which are very complicated by the procedure itself and the decision-making process. We think the powers of the President of the Republic, which do not belong to him under the Constitution, are being extended. We think the President of the Republic is getting some kind of authority that the Constitution doesn't give him. Thus, Article 8 states that the organisation of the Order, the great medals and medals, the description of the insigns, the closer provisions on the criteria for their allocation, the way they are carried, the organisation and the work of the Council of Fines, the rights of the bearers and the restriction of those rights are regulated by the statutes of distinction. This is where the statutes of honor are introduced, advice is introduced. What is controversial is that the statutes are adopted by the President of the Republic by his own initiative, and at the government's proposal and after hearing the opinion of the office of the Republic of Serbia's Order. I think it's a little illogical that the statutes are passed by the President of the Republic by his own initiative. Now he has to give the initiative to give something provided for by this law and be given as authority. In Article 9, which, according to us, is the most controversial, there are two attitudes. In the first position, the president of the Republic is said to be the head of all medals, great medals and medals. I don't know why that word was used. I think it's inappropriate. The second position, which is absolutely unacceptable, is that the President of the Republic takes insignium and becomes a life-long carrier of Emperor Dusan's Order. This Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The bill is absolutely inapplicable to the current President of the Republic, since it has already taken office. It is explicitly said here that the president is insignant at the post of primal insigna. He took office in July 2004, so I don't know how it's going to be handled. It's on the formal side of it. In essence, this attitude is unsustainable for the simple reason that the President of the Republic has been chosen by the people in the direct elections and he, thanks to this trust he received from the people, receives some of the powers and obligations that belong to him and which are prescribed by the Constitution. In his term of office of five years, he exercises those powers, taking the appropriate obligations imposed on him by the Serbian Constitution. The evaluation of his work can only give the next president of the Republic. The President of the Republic, who comes after the elections in his place, can assess whether his predecessor has successfully performed his post or not, and on that basis, can honor him with any medal, grand medal, and no matter what type of medal it is. It is not appropriate for the President of the Republic, in fact, to mark himself and that he alone has the right to be a life-long carrier of Emperor Dusan, because everyone else can lose that Order with their impropriety, sentence to prison and in the legal conditions in which the Order can be taken away. We think that this member is absolutely unacceptable and that he doesn't belong in this law. I would also point out that there are restrictions in Article 18 concerning those disfellowshipping themselves in the award of medals, which states in paragraph 1 that MPs of the National Assembly or the SCG Assembly, as well as judges of the Supreme and Constitutional Court of Serbia, for the duration of their parliamentary or judicial term, cannot be decorated by the honours of the Republic of Serbia. In Section 2, an exception is made. "The ban on the previous position is exempt: the president and vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then the president and vice-president of the government and ministers, if they are MPs at the same time. They are exempt from the same ban and members of the Council of Ministers and Judges of the Court of Justice of Serbia-Montenegro." We have no objection to the exemption of MPs from the possibility of awarding medals. We think it's okay, because it's our job to do by law and there's no reason to be additionally rewarded for the work that we've been prescribed for the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the Constitution, and that's our daily job. However, it is completely unclear why the speaker and vice-president of the assembly are exempt, when they are elected from the ranks of MPs. They are MPs first, and only then are the speaker of the assembly and vice president of the assembly. Making an exception is not clear why. As regards the bodies formed by this law, which are related to the award of medals, that is where the orderly councils are formed in the award of the Order and the councils of distinctions in the case of grand distinctions, with the fact that it is also disputed that the composition of the orderly councils and councils of distinctions, the election and mandate of the members is determined by the Statute, and yet this statute is adopted by the President of the Republic. The selection of members of the Council shall be confirmed by the President of the Republic. So, on the one hand, the President of the Republic adopts the statute, and on the other hand, confirms their choice, which means that he absolutely privatises the institution of these councils. It is simply impossible to choose these members of the council if the President of the Republic is not consulted, because he simply will not give consent to the selection of these members of the Council. You can suggest whoever you want, but if he doesn't have a positive attitude about these people, simply, they won't be able to be elected to the Orden Council or the Council of Honour. Also, the President of the Republic may disband the orderly council or the honour council on the proposal of the Chancellor of the Order. The Chancellor of the Order is a new institution that has been introduced, which has not existed so far in our legislation, by appointing the President of the Republic as the Chancellor of the Order. It is a person appointed by the President of the Republic, and the President of the Republic can also disband the Orden Council and the Council of Honour on the proposal of the Chancellor, whom he once again sets. They are all absolutely tied to the institution of the President of the Republic and the possibility of their decision is limited by the will of the President of the Republic. It is already in Article 28 that the Chancellor of the Order is named by his command by the President of the Republic, by his own initiative. So he's personally making a choice for the Chancellor. What is absolutely inadmissible is in paragraph 2, where you say that, according to rank, the Chancellor of the Order corresponds to the rank of the extraordinary and authorized ambassador to the MIP, or General Major in the Armed Forces. It is completely unclear why the Chancellor of the Order is equal to the Major General in the Armed Forces and an extraordinary and authorized ambassador to the MIA. It is unclear whether it is such an important function in the Office of the President of the Republic to have that title. We are against the formation of new institutions, above all, which are related to the President of the Republic, having negative experience with the formation of the national offices introduced by Boris Tadic, so that they will only build up an administrative apparatus, which will in fact have no concrete purpose or justification for its existence. Article 29 states that the office of the Order consists of at least four men. It's the Chancellor of the Order, the secretary of the office of the Order, the archival of the office and the calligraph of the office, which means that it can do more, but these four people who make up the office are mandatory. It's unclear why it takes so many people to do a job that can be done much simpler and much less cost. As regards the confiscation of the fine, Article 40(1) states that the judicial verdict of the competent court, which punishes the accused person with a sentence of one year for serious criminal offences, may be a cause for the adoption of an order by the President of the Republic on the confiscation of medals. A person who's been sentenced to a sentence for over a year, by the nature of things, must have committed a serious crime, so I think it's unnecessary that this formulation is a one-year-old for serious crimes. "It is therefore a serious crime. This leaves the possibility of "can be a cause for an apparition". Not "can" but "must." It should be that way, because it's inadmissible for a person who's been sentenced to a lengthy prison sentence for one year to continue to be the bearer of a medal. Also, paragraph 4 states that time spent in prison does not count on an internship in a certain degree of any distinction where such an internship is prescribed as a prerequisite for gaining a higher degree. There's a situation where someone who's already been decorated goes to prison and getting out of prison wants to get a higher degree of the same distinction, but now that internship he had in prison doesn't count on him as a high-level waiting intern. We didn't come all this way to honor convicted faces! The medals are the highest degree of social recognition for someone's work and behavior in society. Someone who has been convicted, spends a certain amount of time in prison, is a person who behaves against the legal and moral standards of a society. It must mean, because someone can't go to jail unless they've broken the science legal code. Penalty is a sanction for someone's antisocial and illegal behavior. Such a face is applied for a higher degree of distinction. It's just amazing, I don't know how you think you do it. In the end, I would mention the registration, there is a whole office office that will record decorated persons, data on the date of distinction and degree, then the names of all actors of the Republic of Serbia's distinction, who in the period between the two releases of schemas, the names of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, etc. We think it was necessary to adopt a solution that exists in federal law, that this should be run by the professional service of the President of the Republic. He already has a professional service that performs certain tasks, so we don't think there's a need to form a special office with an office, with a whole service, a whole apparatus that will keep the simplest and most common record of the names of people who have received medals or deceased or have been taken away from them. It is the simplest possible record and there is no need to form the whole service for it. One principled remark refers to a large number of foreign words, primarily Latin (insignment, investment, sill, shematism), French (pressive, furager), so I think it is unnecessary and it is not right to introduce so many foreign words into the law. I think we can describe it all in our own language.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23692	The word is made by MP Predrag Marković, who proposes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23693	Thank you, Mr. Milajic, for the precise data-listing. I think it will help everyone in the explanation that I would give and will help everyone in the efficiency of the work, and hopefully within what we said at the beginning, which is that in no way do we hurt the possibility of those who deserve to do something for the state, they did something for the state, and the whole series of injustices might already have been done over them, so that we don't hurt them now for what's about to come. We don't know if we're going to be the stimulant who's going to pass a law like this. Let me explain something that can confuse people very much. It's not personal, it's just that a man finds himself in some situations and only then sees the complexity, like any of us, of how much more complex the situation is. There are two powers under the Constitution of the President of the Republic. It is one thing to award medals, which Serbia does not have, and the other is to grant pardons. The law regulates theoretical situations. When you say an MP, you don't mean Mrs. Radet and me, when it says legislator or you. In practice I didn't want, I pardoned a face that was decorated. Then, in one accident, he was convicted of a crime. You know what we went through as a state, the man was at the end of the job, he was guarding some factory, which is neither sold, completely abandoned, no money, one person was assigned. The kids were passing by, playing at that factory, they died. That man was in prison, a serious crime of security, children were killed. On the one hand, the procedure is extremely simplified, and on the other hand it is extremely complex. So the warden of the prison wrote, the parents of the children who were killed, because his family, the man who was so much earlier, also fell into poverty. They all wrote. The Minister, the Supreme Council of Defense, all agreed and asked for a man to be pardoned. Since I was doing those powers at that point, that's what I did. He was decorated for his personal courage in carrying out his official duties. Imagine tomorrow something happens and that man, because what you said is being transferred to the Ministers of Power, that's the emergency war when it's being transferred so the authorities can react immediately, but it's also said that you can't go from one degree to another over time. It's got to be a certain time and that face saves ten lives. Technically, as you've put it, I know it wasn't your intention, you've logically set it up, it can't be formally deserved. On the other hand, in order to avoid abuse, the period he spent in prison must be because it is possible that the one who pardoned him was wrong. We've historically seen everything, we've seen everything in our space, so, just to put that kind of restriction on having time to think about it. On the one hand, the procedure further complies with this bill, and although you are formally correct, it can be extremely simple, but unfortunately in life it is not that simple. I have a letter. "Dear sir, is it possible that the Republic of Serbia doesn't care about a crime unremembered in the world, that it goes so lightly and that no one remembers that these people are at least posthumously decorated. I know it's formally decided by Mr. Tadic, but can anyone suggest it? I think my application is justified and not at all unfounded under the circumstances." I don't want to mention what's going on so we don't hurt anyone. I forwarded the initiative because there is no Mr. Tadic here, Mr. Markovic, there are institutions. We're all in favor, because we don't know today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you know what, in political life, so you've been fighting, someone when the pretty ones are crying, and they're having a fight, so they're conflicting with law enforcement, with a cop. That doesn't mean we don't want to live in a country where, with a full sense of security, if anything happens, I call the police urgently, Serbian police. That's what the law says. You tell the institution, I want to have an institution, I want to address that institution. The fact that I want institutions to be placed differently, or you, it's being solved in another way, and it's very complicated, but you want to have institutions, they're a security framework, that you feel safe and secure, as much as you have different opinions. Because of situations like this, the procedure for this case has humiliated the person who asked for this. That's what I'm trying to tell you. I've forwarded the initiative. The President of the Republic passed on the initiative and someone made a mistake, because that federal law is wrong, that's what I'm saying, that's what you've quoted, because there's not everything that's supposed to be here right now, that's Shematism, there's no archives, it's not being monitored, there's not so many advances that can be done in defining, so there's no statutes. It's not about that statute, which Mr. Sarovic or Mrs. Radeta know much better about because they're lawyers, so you say you have a statute in one organization. These are the statutes which define all the complexity that ye must fulfill, that it may be unquestionably by him who bestows and by him who receives the bestowal. That's why it's so sensitive. Here, in a particular case, someone who could formally assign a mistake, ran out in public, hurt his victims. There was a fight. The person who wrote this today says – is it possible that even after so many years the state cannot thank at least for what someone in my family did, professionally doing their duty in the interest of the state. That's not the kind of thing we're kidding about. I'm talking about what I've been doing. It's very well-intentioned what you said. You've drawn my attention to why the Major General, or the rank of diplomats. Because, as in the current Serbian Constitution, I didn't bring it, I suppose you, too, write to the armed forces, in that and that case; foreign policy, in that and that case. Of course, the Constitution conveys, and then there was one, and now there's another state community, so it's regulated by the laws. But what if it doesn't exist? You have a very complex proposal procedure. It won't be possible for someone who has the rank that I have to do to accidentally find himself in the office of the Chancellor of the Order and to decide on it, because, as you know, the annual limited number of medals that can be awarded, and to decide whether between this military merit and those military merits, and who doesn't understand the military. So he must have authority. You know that in the army authority gives the hierarchy an act. That's why it says in the law - it's an act of general Major, rank of general Major, or diplomatically the same. Because, as you know, there is a procedure here. Would you allow it, otherwise we don't have it now, so we have examples, I think someone mentioned them, now we have a situation that our citizens, it doesn't exist in serious countries in the world, receive medals or medals from other countries, and that the state knows nothing about it. The state must know and must, even morally, give a gesture from the office's point of view that takes care of everything. It is foreseen, on the basis of similar experiences, to be this kind of office, but whether it is good or not, that is the second question, and that the one at the head of that service, which has a minimum of four; as it says - the National Assembly, as a rule, has five vice presidents; we have not voted to be six; it is not enough to be six sometimes in reality. Here, Mr. Zankov is today the only vice president present, and on his back he has to run a session this far. You say, minimum four, and if it takes 10, we don't know what life carries. The law can't do these things. There's so much, and you have to, when you're establishing something, if you have self-respect, for your country, do it so that the state can compare. What MPs do here when they say, by any law, they say -- what do you suggest, they say to the legislator, whoever this is, this solution, which you don't suggest as the whole normal world. Then you say, in this country it's like this, in that kind of thing, etc. This is where it was taken care of, the tradition of medals and medals, I'm talking about European tradition now, it's strictly hierarchical. In order for it to be easy to compare, because people meet each other, and you carry each other, God will give this law to be passed, that you may earn, any one of us, the Order. It's predicted when you can handle it, then you know you're talking to the face of the same rank of credit for your country. That's why the names, the lines, the degrees are the same, as usual. Hence the shematism, hence the need to appear and publish in this way so that you may have a clear sense of it. Finally, one important thing, since we have all noticed together that in the previous period there has been often abuse, someone has turned to that attention, it must not happen, when the law of distinctions is passed, this, in this proposal, or whatever other, has to predict all these situations, the way of the solution, the complexity of the procedure to pass. What you're saying by pointing out, you just said the example, it's not with the President of the Republic's Office. They were left, therefore, with the government's regulation, by a sublegal act. Of course, it must be called that function, as you agree, which is defined in the Constitution. As an order now on every law is signed by the President of the Republic. The procedure is clear if he doesn't get to do it. So here, in the end, it is said -- on the government's proposal, based on these statutes, based on the orderly councils. Through a very complex procedure arrives, and at the end of the apparition, of course, one who is head of the Order gives it. Of course, that's why so many foreign words -- just because of these comparisons. Since you have read the article by member responsibly, it has been seen that many or not have been able to compare all the arguments, the reasons, so it can remain unclear, this matter must not cause uncertainty. I haven't consulted with the heads of Parliament about the details for two reasons. The first is, I just said, because I let the Assembly know if it should come to the agenda. I never get into it when it was voted, most or minorities said it would come to the agenda by being in an emergency procedure. She expressed her willingness to be urgent, to be very late, and to be important. Tomorrow we might regret it, we can't even thank some people, who've had the credit for the people. That hurts. Not until someone found themselves in that skin; I saw a man's fate. Another reason is that this is matter, perhaps I'm wrong, which is to this extent related to, on the one hand, experience, and on the other hand, strict rules of recognition, traditions of several hundred years that have changed, in completely different historical circumstances. You today have, at completely different levels, and in other countries, and their constitutional-legal frameworks differ, so you have federations, confederations, republics, monarchies, and the distinctions in this sense are uniform -- degrees, so that's what was just confusing. I felt that there was no need for us to consult politically, except for the will, as I will never consult with the heads of Parliament about the name of a chemical, or how a master will fix a car, it's a purely professional matter. If we have different opinions, it doesn't mean anything, it's a question of will. Since there's a lot of confusion here, and I don't want it in any way, I believe, and that's what I was saying at first, that this assembly is capable, because it's legitimate, it's legal, because behind it is the largest number of citizens, because the only one has the ability to hand over powers to other levels of government, even those who choose in a different way than the MPs themselves, I have shown in the beginning, must not in any way fall a shadow of misunderstanding or political marketing or indifference. That's not what you were saying, you were just saying practical things. For this reason, I ask that we look at this proposal once again, because I see that there are situations, as you said, what is the occasion for the assignment, everything is defined, either in the explanations, or elsewhere. Let's take another look, and when you think you should, then we'll decide. A man can serve his country in different ways. One way is by proposing laws or supporting laws, or by discussing them, or by adopting them. There are other ways, when you decide, I'm at your disposal, and I'm not going to let this matter, because I don't think you want it to fall either, no kind of shadow, no hastyness, and I'm withdrawing this law from the procedure, so that the state can finish its other jobs. I hope we meet easily on this proposal very soon. Thank you all for your responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23694	As you have heard, I understand that the motionor has withdrawn the bill on distinctions, and since this was the last point in the debate in principle, we are going to look into the draft law according to amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23695	Thanks to this, of course we'll only be working today until the end of the search in particular of the item on the agenda. That's the first notice. And now I can say something from this place that I hope won't cause a replica. Dear neighbor, that rule of His does not apply to the place of dwelling where he sits and lies, but to the place where he stands. He who stands on a hill is better seen than he who is under a hill. It's a metaphor that you and I understand, and I hope the others do. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON INOVATION OF ACTIVITY (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by MPs Miodrag Stamenković and Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović together, as well as the Committee on Science and Technological Development. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Miodrag Stamenkovic submitted to the 21st amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. National MP Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23696	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, since the substance of the amendment has been accepted, so that the only location of intervention is not 21, as I mentioned in the amendment, but 22, but what we wanted was achieved, which is to facilitate all incubators' movement without increased investment, as in the draft law in Article 22 paragraph 1 of point 2), that his obligation to hire two with high school equipment, since Mr. Minister has respected the essence of my amendment, and only the Committee of Intervention has changed this, I am withdrawing my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23697	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technological Development has submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23698	On behalf of the board, following the intervention of MP Zlatan Jovanovic, it was adopted in a debate in principle.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23699	Anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, want the final word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITIES (specificities) You have received amendments submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the MPs: Vojislav Mihailović, Branislav Blažić, Mileta Poscurica, Momir Marković, Zoran Mašić, Zoran Krasić, Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Paja Momčilov and together Ljiljana Nestorović and Meko Omerović, as well as the Committee for Science and Technological Development. In writing, the amendment was withdrawn by the MPs of the People's Republic of Vjerica Rade to member 17 and Zoran Mašić to member 21. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Branislav Blazic submitted to the 2nd amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP, Milet Poscuric, submitted to the 3rd amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23700	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is our aim for Europe, but you don't have to put Europe in every law, every member and every sentence of that member. I have submitted an amendment to Article 6(1), point 5, and I will read that member of the law in order to make it clear. Point 5) says: "Instituting international scientific co-operation to faster integrate into world scientific, economic, social and cultural flows and integrate into European research space. "I wonder when it was divided into the research spaces of Europe, Asia, Africa, America. I guess research space is a global category, a planetary category. So what scientists in India find in Indonesia, they find for the grace of all mankind, and for that Eskimo up there. That's why I think we should throw out this part of "integration into the European Research Area" and that part to delete. A team before Article 2 has adopted an amendment that also refers to this categorisation to European and others: "The scientific research work, as a matter of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, is an integral part of the international (especially European-explicated) scientific, educational and cultural space. "If we go Europe, then let's go to the Balkans. If we start taking it off the Balkans, narrowing it down a little bit, then forest scientific research space, and then scientific research space just Kragujevci, or just Pambukovice. Don't play, these are very serious laws, so I suggest you delete this, this European to delete it. Let's make sure the world's liquid is all that's found.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23701	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23702	I fully understand the amendment and for these reasons we have accepted the amendment to Article 2. However, this article speaks of a European research space and this is something that already exists as a definition. This includes all countries of geographical Europe, were not EU members and, thanks to the existence of a European research space and thanks to our involvement in it, we are able to bring a certain amount of money from European funds from the Brussels funds to our country. So that's the only reason, there's no one else, to accept that amendment, and I totally agree, and I've shown that by accepting the amendments to Article 2, but simply we're already part of the European Research Area, we need greater involvement so that we can bring more money into Serbia from Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23703	Member of the 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23704	I would only say at first that it is good that the Committee has intervened with the amendment and that the minister has accepted the amendment to the Committee on participation in the gross social product and I call on Members to support it. I don't know why he didn't become an integral part of the bill, but there's probably something in the Rules of Procedure. The day it's voted, it'd be good to support it. This amendment I have submitted refers to a third position. You suggested that the strategy, in fact, as far as it applies, for which period is being brought, as stated here and you said, for 10 years, and I suggested that it be five years. I can really understand the arguments that led you to go to a little longer period, because yet scientific research takes too long, in some areas too long, compared to other areas of social life. I insisted on cutting this deadline for the simple reason why modern science is very dynamic. I'm just going to take something as an example, I'm building up ahead, maybe it's a bad example, maybe it's not good for comparison, but I'm aware that those people who finished electronics 25 years ago and this knowledge today that they're learning at that university, that's two different things, because some estimate was that it's about 10 years ago, and now for five years now, here, two years complete knowledge is changing in one area. If that 10-year deadline is put in place, then there is a danger that we have cemented a period of time, determined the strategic direction in which we are going to develop a scientific area, to approve the resources for scientific projects that are going that way, and in the meantime the world has skipped us, or science has skipped us. I may be wrong again, but you won't mind me. I think in 1953 we were third or fifth in the world in terms of electronics, development of electronics, achievements, etc. Then we started stagnating. It has its reasons, both justifiable and unwarranted, and objective and subjective, etc. My idea was that this shorter period of validity, one strategy simply affects those in charge of the strategy to review strategic definitions for almost six months. Of course, you've put here that the same way can be changed and complemented by that strategy, but one thing is when it's said, this is worth 10 years, so we're going to change or supplement it along the way. Then someone finds out about the alterations and supplements, and someone doesn't know. Someone finds out that changes and additions took place when they were rejected in the competition, because then they find out that in the meantime, the programme, or strategy, has changed, and more what he has some interest in and has some development project, is not a strategic definition for the state in terms of science development. In that sense, I went to this reduction. Otherwise, in principle, I agree that that framework or rough programme, only with strategic directional definitions, without some more detailed work, should it be a document with a relatively long duration of time. I get the impression you didn't get this idea. If you think that with this extension of sentence can change and supplement in this period, then that would be acceptable, but I'm afraid there will be no information of those people who are interested in joining that state strategy. Excuse me, please, why would someone who's a scientist and who's involved in science have a program, have an idea in which direction something needs to develop, it's blended into this general strategy, you know how long it takes to prepare for a project, and not be informed in time that something has changed in the meantime. That danger exists in what you said, alterations and additions. Of course, changes and additions are needed, if science is going one way, and we're coughing, because in the meantime, the area has already been mastered, especially in these fundamental researches. The area's been overrun, we'll find out later. And we now have some knowledge of what we're getting about scientific achievements in our country late, because whoever came to the achievement had no intention of announcing it immediately, because it was waiting for a while. It's known how the Russians, the Americans do it, when they make the most of their invention, their achievement, then only after a while do they publish it in some scientific work and make it available to the public. That's all I asked him to change, so we wouldn't make a system of mandatory delay with normative provisions. That was my idea. This second piece of change and supplementation, I'm just afraid it'll be unclear to the people who are interested in this area. That's the point of this amendment. As you can see, I have no intention of entering these specifics of these six areas which, each in their own way, are specific or even with different scientific methods. As long as I'm here, you won't mind me, I have submitted an amendment to Article 44(3) and I can say about that, and in this amendment there was a little mistake, but it's a good thing that the Committee, and you've accepted it, sort of made a compromise solution, and unless it disturbs the order of reading these amendments, Mr. Zankov, when you get to 44, I give up that amendment, given that the amendment of the Committee has been decided in a satisfactory manner, and as far as I've heard it, the minister has accepted that new amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23705	Thank you, Mr. Krassic, the service has recorded. The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23706	This amendment is in line with those amendments where it is actually a matter of free jurisprudence. I fully understand Mr. Krasic's reasons and fears. On the other hand, I could give counterarguments to a five-year strategy, and now in basic research the cycle will take five years, practically, creating one situation where a new research without a strategy can be called for. And so far, by law, we've had to have a strategy, and we don't have one. So time will show whether this is a solution or a solution that Mr Krasic would possibly suggest better. The promoter believes this solution has more chances of success. This is the order of those amendments that can't be easily accepted, they can't explicitly refuse. This is now a matter of free jurisprudence. The promoter believes that the solution offered is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23707	The People's Messenger Ivan Radic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23708	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will take the opportunity to report for Mr Zoran Krasic's amendment. However, my exposure will have a completely different connotation. Namely, I'll refer to Article 198. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will take the opportunity to ask the parliamentary question to Minister Aleksandr Popovic. In fact, from where I come from, from Pomorava, there was a big tragedy in the upper river Resava. There, about 20 days ago, a fully unearthed trough of the river Resava was dug up and completely encased with a concrete dam of five meters and a half metre thick. It's a strict nature reserve protected by the state. I have a photograph of it here, and I'm going to add it to Minister Popovic. Under the circumstances, on that day we performed an action to fish the Resava River, the upper stream, with 10,000 pieces of a one-year-old younger river trout. This is one of the best trout revoir in central Serbia. The action was attended by Ms Danica Djuric, otherwise a republican water inspector, who could not miraculously wonder what had happened there. There is no need to remind the minister what is needed to obtain a permit to build one such facility, that an environmental impact assessment is needed, that a strategic environmental impact assessment is needed, an assessment of the impact on the microclimate, etc. By law, still valid, the contractor must not usurp more than one third of the water flow. They need to provide the fish trails and a large array of other conditions needed to get permission. These photos show that nothing has been done, and according to the information I own, the contractor is the "Svilajnac" Termopower Plant. I ask the question, did the Ministry do anything about it, because this is clearly about crime, or breaking the law. There are only two options: either the law has violated the contractor that started the construction, and practically, has already ended without the relevant documents, i.e. the consent and permission of the competent authorities, which means that the contractor is the one who broke the law; or the performer owns all the documentation, then the law violates the one who gave such documentation to the contractor. I also asked this question two days ago on the Committee on Environmental Protection and to the Director of the Environmental Protection Administration, Mr. Miroslav Nikčević, who promised me that within 24.00 hours he would send a republican inspection to the scene, but I wanted to take this opportunity to simply ask through the form of a parliamentary question whether the ministry was aware of what it had done and whether anything could be done about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23709	The word has Minister Aleksandar Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23710	In line with your discussion on the Committee on Environmental Protection a few days ago, the inspection went out on the ground. You will receive an inspection report, I say, at the latest, today is Thursday, on Tuesday you will have in the Assembly along with a proposal for a measure. Here's the problem with the division of jurisdiction. I'm running, and you're saying that there was a water inspection present, and that's not an inspection that's directly in charge of the Department of Environmental Protection of the Ministry of Science and Environment, but every area that's under some degree of protection, from the national park, as the highest degree of protection down, there's an opportunity for intervention of the Environmental Protection Authority. You will analyse the situation and take the measures in writing with the conclusion on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23711	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On the 10th and all other members showing up, the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 10th Amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Development and Technological Development have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23712	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have already spoken on the Committee, the SRS intended to submit amendments in a way to strengthen the ministers' powers. It was simply that the Assembly strengthened the minister's and position by proposing to the government to elect the National Council, second, when they did not respond to the task provided for in Article 10(5). Namely, when the previously bound members of 8, 9, 10, etc. are more pronounced, it is evident that a fundamental strategy is being adopted by the Government. It is better if the parliament did so, as a strategy on fighting corruption, but it will not be the only strategy brought by the government, or the minister, if things are simplified. The operationalisation of this strategy is through research programmes, in particular programmes of general interest, and there are 14 points, one of which is truly remarkable and is a strategic programme from that part. The programme is brought by the Serbian Matica, or SANU. There's really neither the Council nor the minister is going to deal with it, and that's good, because it would be illusory if they were doing that part of the job. But the rest of the work, as much as we think the minister can do, and he chooses with that body that we have amended to reduce to 17 members, by six certainly from representative universities, or scientific research organisations and other types of their communities, plus, of course, the academy, plus queens and plus one representative from the Chamber of Commerce, which I hope won't be some expert from Karic's Chamber of Industry. I don't think these mobsters or Tadic's some exposés are going to see, that the minister will not propose such a national council to the government, that he will simply tour such creations, scientific, research and certainly human and moral. I think that's what we believe in the dignity of the personal and the minister, so that's the part of the story. This second part of the story is actually why we wanted to suggest that if the Council does not respond to the tasks and deadlines that will be set for it, which will later be regulated by some sublegal act, and it does not show here which, agreed deadlines, the government is proposing that the council be changed. It may never have happened realistically, but to future members, elected by that council, it would seem warningly preventive when it writes. If you don't work, respectable people, we'll propose to academics, and the same shifts, and maybe that'll make them work a little bit. We really have problems with the crisis of institutions, the crisis of trust, the crisis of morality, or they will come and take these and those kind of money, and some will work, and some won't, some will argue, and sometimes they won't get along. Why does it matter? It could have been solved differently. We talked about it on the Committee, about erasing attitudes 4 or 5, and not to mention if, but the advice has to do so, and it's not there if there's no condicionals, and maybe it could have been that variant. We didn't go into playing the subject until the end, but the idea was, it's possible it's past the rules of conduct so far and the minister's proposing a shift, but why not. They'd know they could be replaced and they'd certainly be doing it more seriously. Then load the minister on his back and do the full work of general interest. Now what remains, the jurisdiction of this council, remains to work afterwards and to monitor what is happening and to receive reports retrogradely from the parent committees etc. He'll have something to do. Most of the work and most of the work will fall on the minister's back. We are not defending the minister from it, he himself has agreed by the bill to do so, but why not have a body, for which we in the SRS are always about to be as less bureaucratized as possible, as little as possible in the numbering amount and that as little as possible, they are receiving a balance from the budget. In the next member, the minister granted this request to the extent that it could. We have respected the arguments of other parliamentary groups, and ministers, to make some equivalent between those representing scientific research institutions and those representing higher education institutions, and therefore to be a parity, since this is a law regarding research organisations. We have achieved a second level and a second quality, providing a higher level of representation of people with high, higher or higher titles, research or pedagogical, or academic and teaching titles, as part of committees and committees, or institutes themselves when they open. So the variant was that, the meaning of the amendment was that and the minister was on the move and we'll see if he can accept the amendment now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23713	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23714	Mr. Popovic, you're a professional scientist, you do science, and I'd ask you not to get what I'm about to say wrong. What I'm about to say about Article 10(4) is a purely policy area. I need to draw your attention to hearing what I'm about to tell you carefully. This attitude solves the situation where the programme does not propose a national council and then one of your officers told you, that job ends with the minister in some way. I made it simple, but it comes down to it, for efficiency, the minister takes the obligation to end it. What are we looking for with the amendment? We ask that the national council be changed, very simple and simple. Why? Mr. Popovic, in this country, there are people who have money, have television, have their own MPs, have their lobby groups, have their own television, have their own banks, have their own spare banks, have their own academics, reserve academias, Doctors of science, have their own students and have living parents who are not yet saints. A living man, taking action to declare a living man a saint. He's counting on money and he can do anything. Fortunately for us, SPC isn't Roman Catholic, so we can do anything for the money. What would happen, Mr. Popovic, if you're thrown over your lobbies, let's just say Karic. You don't know that, Karic has a third judge in the Supreme Court. He boasts about how a third of it is his. He almost wanted to buy a journalist, B92, so they told him some amount, and he said I'd buy Veran Matic for that money. He says, "How much does it cost?" He's a politician. He's an academic. Ladies don't get the professors and doctors at the university wrong, this only refers to a small number of people with academic titles who at one point, due to their poor salaries at the university, were simply forced for money to go to such academics. Now he's terrorising them, where they must subdue their academic knowledge to the interests of politicians, Ekrem Luke's associates. That's what you should know. When they put you in, and when they block you from the National Council, we want to save you, because first they're going to block your advice, and then they're going to call you out for why, in terms of attitude 4, as you suggested, you took responsibility for something. Then they'll call you and break the law, destroy democracy, that you're a dictator, that you're a volunteer. You won't be able to figure out what kind of epithets you'll get. This way, it is much cleaner for you, as minister, to propose to the government that the National Council be changed, in order to allow that composition to do the job in accordance with the law. So Karic can fail, but Tadic can. He has NGOs, he's encouraged by the media, he has his own TV. The RTS knows exactly when to edit the DS log, and when to edit the government. If the first news is "His Majesty" Boris Tadic, then it's the evening team from the DS. This morning I was talking, you weren't there, they even attacked Telekom, but Telekom didn't save Draško Petrovic, he couldn't save the poor guy, but the Greek partner saved us, he said - with those fuckers I won't work with, that they're transferring us some services and some of their programs, to sell us something. Minister, you need to understand the dangers that have prevailed over Serbia over the Democratic Party and the reserve Democratic Force of Serbia. They're going, among other things, to this area. Here, let me give you another example. Mr. Karic says he's a politician and says he's a businessman. Give me one of his industrial drives. This big group of the Karic Brothers, what's up with the heavy industry? Nothing. What do they have in the area of agriculture? Stole one of the combinations. I think it was canceled or they ran away. He only got hold of his cell phone. It shows its humanity. If he's so human, let him cut the price of impulse and be human to everyone. Then everyone pays, and he's giving, apparently, an impulse to life. Nothing in this country can do without Karic. Mr. Minister, don't accidentally receive some wrong donation from Karic. He has no cheek. He told Kostunica he was the patriarch of democracy, and immediately the next day he said all the worst. I remember when he went to Stjepan Mesic, his friend, and when he returned to Belgrade, he went to the president of the SRJ, Vojislav Kostunica, and then called him DS, and he said, "I had to give him a message from my president from Croatia." The message referred to "The Deer Do." Get away from Karic. He cheated on everyone. He put every friend in jail. Is there anything worse in this country than being friends with Bogoljub Karic and Dusan Mihajlovic. Whoever was a friend to Dusan Mihajlovic, he's gone in politics, he doesn't exist. And, third, Nebojsa Covic. Because he hates Kostunica pathologically, he goes with Karic, who spits with him, goes with the Democrats he spits with. So, to go back to this amendment, so that someone doesn't realize that I've abused this amendment, to support this politician a little bit. It wasn't my intention, dear Minister, but just to distract you - don't take on what you planned in attitude 4. Accept what Mr. Pocurica has suggested, because then it's an institutional blockade. That means someone's tearing down an institution. It is possible that this institution is destroying within one of these pranks: Karic, Tadic, etc., you know who they are. I can tell you that these are the ones financed by Ekrem Luka, Thaci, Agim Ceku, etc. There's evidence. Ask your colleagues who work security, Radet Bulatovic, Jocic and these other services ask. For all there is evidence to prove who is funding those who are destroying Serbia, do not tear you down, the Serbs are destroying you, remember. Some MPs didn't understand me, so in every word I said, they found something indignant against the government. I'm criticizing power, more or less successfully, with a style that someone likes or doesn't like, but I warn you -- this is the last act in someone's direction of breaking Serbia. Karic and Tadic, with their NGOs, are headed by the column with their media. They're in front of that unfortunate Perisic, a spy who's in The Hague. That's worse evil. Imagine, in a TV diary, meteorological forecasts they give political views of PSS and DS. They hate Serbia. I don't allow the law to contain anything that would give them the opportunity to destroy our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23715	The word has Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23716	I think I understood the full fears of the respected Mr. Krasic, as well as the advice they gave at that time. I don't have a relationship in my life with the gentlemen mentioned, so I'm completely calm from that point of view. This again belongs to one of those amendments where the question now is what's better and what's a worse solution. Fear of being blocked by the National Council. In order for the National Council to be blocked, practically, the proposings, who can replace members of the National Council, must be taken over by someone who would block it, which means all universities, which propose six members, the Community of the Institute, which suggests the other six, SANU, which suggests two, the Serbian Matica, who proposes one member. So, all of them would have to be bought. Personally, I don't think it can ever come to that. If that comes theoretically, then there's nothing from Serbia. Therefore, it is completely irrelevant then what will happen to the national council. I'm looking at things from a little bit of a second point of view: what if the National Council doesn't set up programs, so a new national council is formed, and it's a certain time, and the programs have to take place? That's the bad side of the proposed solution. What if this new national council, and we're going with the theoretical hypothesis that these organizations have already been taken over by someone, then that new national council won't be able to do anything. Conversely, if the minister appoints a new national council of his own, it opens up the fearsome possibilities of abuse. I give you my word that I would never abuse such a possibility, but you never know who will sit in this place after me. So this is a question of free jurisprudence again, and we believe that the solution proposed theoretically can create fewer complications than the solution proposed by the esteemed Professor Poscurica in his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23717	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Assembly of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Zoran Masic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The Legislative Committee has not declared itself correcting the amendments. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 25th amendment. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Vojislav Mihailovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 35th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23718	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you don't mind, I'd like to connect the amendment to Article 35 and Article 36 because they are connected in some way, so if the chairman agrees that I should give an explanation for one and for another amendment, since Mr. neither Blazic nor Momchilov are there. The essence of the amendment to Article 35 concerns that we in the SRS consider that so-called The state institutes, which operate by means of state property, should exclusively establish the Republic and Mr Blazic, in an amendment to Article 35, has proposed a new position that should read: "The Republic can set up an institute on the proposal of an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government". We believe that the Republic should now be the founder of a state-owned institute and that such institutions have all the prerogatives of state institutions, which means that such institutions can also apply to programmes defined in Article 10 of this Law. This is unclear in the event that this amendment is not accepted, and that the possibility of establishing an institute for autonomous provinces and local self-governments, does this mean that just such established institutes by the provinces or local self-government can compete parityally for programmes defined in Article 10, such as a programme of security and maintenance of scientific and research equipment and space for scientific and research work, or a programme for human resources for scientific and research work and other programmes defined in Article 10, for which all institutes, in fact established by the Republic, can compete. We believe that it was the basis for this amendment to be accepted, because we are now giving exclusive rights and opportunity to the Ministry of Science and the Government to establish institutes that will operate with funds in the state property and such institutes will then be able to compete for all programmes defined by this member. Otherwise, if we won't allow it, then maybe we have such a situation that one of these researchers of future such institutes or, say, the Vojvodina Academy of Sciences, if someone dared to re-establish the Vojvodina Academy, and we know what the structure of government in the province is in the past. True, there is no possibility of funding this academy with this law, and that's good and we welcomed it, but don't let any of these academics or the entire academy tomorrow, one of the researchers from these institutes, regret to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg that they have been denied their rights and that this state is discriminating certain scientific institutions or certain researchers. It was precisely our primary motivation to give, through this amendment to Articles 35 and 36, the sole right to propose this law, which is the Ministry of Science and the Government, that the possible need for the establishment of an institute by the province or local self-government should be assessed by the Ministry, means an evaluation of the elaborates required to be presented before, because there should be a justification for the establishment of such institutions, and then certainly if they pass all the evaluations of the elaborates through accreditation, to enter the network of scientific institutes. Whether it will be very scientific or be a research-development institute, it is again the definition of those who will propose, but the basis of the amendment is that only the right is given to the ministry and the government to establish institutes that will operate the funds in state property.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23719	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23720	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, SRS MP Prof. Dr. Masic pointed out and explained the reasons why the SRS directed this amendment in this direction and why she wanted the provisions of Article 35 to be corrected, as well as Article 36. It is noticeable that in secret and hidden re-establishing power from the 1974 Constitution regarding the AP Vojvodina. We've had opportunities these days to hear that the Duke's leadership is looking for its own police. They started with the Academy of Science, now the institutes, and then the executive government, meaning the administration, its police, which might serve them at some point, I fear very unfavourable opportunities for the Republic of Serbia, and at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, if they want to be taken over from the Republic of Serbia and the judicial authority are on their way to ask for laws, to take judicial power, executive, while at the same time moving to legislation. Threatened, if there is not enough caution and reason, the ruling set in the AP Vojvodina apparently tries unhindered and hidden to achieve certain goals, perhaps even as Makiyaveli spoke, to reach the goal of not choosing the means. That is why we believe that the Republic must have jurisdiction when it comes to such institutions. The establishment of institutes in one republic, or state, at the level of one state, should be in the authority of the state. However, if it were to be given the authority to establish institutes in the area of the AP Vojvodina... or Kosovo, because Kosovo is also Serbia's territory, only temporarily occupied, will never be handed over to the Shiptars, nor donated, because it will not be given by Serbia. Only those negotiating to give it to the Shiptars, along with Karic, I hope, however, that he has reason in Serbia's leadership. There is an SRS that, in any case, plays a big role in Serbia's political scene and will never allow KIM to become the territory of another state. It is temporarily occupied, but it will eventually be returned to Serbia. It was not taken, given international regulations, at Resolution 1244, but now those from our local public who want to help those who have solved and who are trying to kidnap Kosovo have interfered. In parallel with this, the situation and situation in the AP Vojvodina must be truly under control. It should not be allowed to make it easy for institutions to remain in the jurisdiction of the Republic. The SRS considers that if institutes were to be established in the area of the AP Vojvodina or local self-government, they must be fully agreed by the competent republican authorities. Without it, everything will get out of hand. Whoever gets away from the Constitution is very dangerous and insecure. This way, if allowed, in a easy way, that from one of the so-called institutions, which is at first sight an institution that should serve the interests of citizens, is, for scientific purposes, but from that they had come before, so we had a situation that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina we had stronger authority under the 1974 Constitution than was the authority of the republican authorities. They repeat something, when a Turkish ambassador was killed in 1982, you can imagine that the province's interior secretary did not give permission to the republican authorities to investigate in the area of the AP Vojvodina. In order not to experience the 1974 Constitution, and in order for the state, as a state, to have jurisdiction in the entire territory of the Republic, everything must be placed under control, under the supervision and consent of the Republic and the highest republican authorities. That is why we propose that this amendment, proposed by Professor Blazic, be adopted because it will be effective for the Republic of Serbia in any case. On the other hand, I would point out that the funds would be better controlled, as the funds would be used from the budget and partly from the Republic budget, that it would not be without control, without the republican authorities should not leave Serbia's absolute fate to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23721	Thank you, Mr. Jojic. Minister Popovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23722	He would not be controversial at all and not disputed in the second part of Mr Blazic's amendment, where he says institutes can be based on an AP proposal, a local self-government, to be founded by the Republic. Anyway, there's one system and there's one principle. So, there's a design of elaborate justification and there's accreditation committees. We already have the situation, we have part of the institutes that are registered and that are privatized under the '90s laws. One is in the vicinity of this building, there are others in Serbia, some are mostly privatised, others are minorityly privatised. So there are those who de facto control at this point physical faces. There are institutes whose, at this point, de facto owners are foreign legal entities, and these are institutions that are related to business entities that were privatised before 2004, so before this government was formed, segments of industry, DIN in Nis, Sartid, were sold together with them all the organisational continents, including scientific institutes that existed. These scientific institutes are still the most normal registered in the ministry. Of course, this government has seduced a different practice and a different policy, there will be no more privatisation, simply any institute that is within a state-owned company, a state-owned business society, we are asking to get away with privatisation, to save that something science that is related to the economy. So, we have a situation, even if these amendments were accepted, other scientific institutes could be owned by the Republic of Serbia, they could be owners of the physical home and foreign persons, they could also be legal persons owners -- domestic or foreign. We have at this point de facto private colleges and universities that exist, whether some of them will go through the accreditation process provided by law, be accredited to do science or not, that's their thing, but we have that possibility. Here is a very clear view, if by the rules that are very strict, the units of local self-government or two provinces, as many as we have today and as many as we will have, can be able to respect these conditions, so ten doctors of science, or seven doctors of science, and all of those other conditions that exist, which are not directly related to human beings, we really don't mind that such institutes are founded. He can set them up on a proposal, it's in the law, and the government, it's not a dispute. If the unit of local self-government, why look only at the AP, since the amendment requires that both be deleted, wants to establish and have enough people and other conditions, as a minister I would be very happy. Those certainly wouldn't be Belgrade's local self-government units. This would mean decentralisation of science, which might mean reviving some of the places that exist today in Serbia. Of course, as in the case of anything else, whoever makes it should swing it. Clearly, freedom of access to science funds belongs to all equally in quality. Article 99 clearly states who is being funded institutionally -- only those founded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Serbia. So we think the text of the law should remain as it was. As for the institution mentioned by esteemed Professor Masic, the esteemed Mr Jojic, so-called. The Dukean Academy of Science and Arts, my smallness is the minister of science and environmental protection. In my jurisdiction are scientific institutions, political institutions are not. So I'm not familiar with the work, or anything related to this political institution, which you gentlemen have mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23723	We're moving on to the next amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23724	Mr. Mašić connected these two amendments to the article. 35th and 36th. They really have this common line, with what exists and something called a big difference. Article 35 speaks of the founder. So it goes to something that's a question of the status of the institute's founder, and Article 36 regulates matter of assets, ownership. You have probably realized that by amendment to Article 35, Mr Blažić wanted nothing to hurt, but he wanted that member to agree with the Constitution and the law and to point out that, apart from the private, conditional terms, the institute, when the founders are private persons, whether physical or legal is not important at the moment, there is another group when the founding member of the Republic, whose proposal and due to whose particular unscrupulous interest, is already another issue. So, Mr. Blažić advocates the concept the Republic is the founder, can be on the proposal of local self-government, can on the proposal AP, with all the conditions you said, which I would call material and technical conditions that could exist, both in terms of personnel and rooms etc. I can understand that you're not getting along on the status issue. Status isn't such a simple thing. He's very serious, but I'll now question the status issue to link to the property issue. We in the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have a provision that says the funds can be private property, social property and state property. In state property, good in general use, in mining wealth, in natural wealth, not to order all that. Now, Mr. Minister, you're running an action from people who absolutely don't even know the constitutional law, and they're likely to plant a man who might be a good man, but they simply plant it on those from the Standing Conference of Cities, that's DS. Now they're planting, and I expect that by the new year, we'll probably have this bill of law that needs to solve the property of local self-government. For the next session. The law has no constitutional basis at all. Your government didn't want it, she took it off the agenda, but now we're going with one political violence. What's this about when we talk about property? This is everything I say literally in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I may not be able to interpret every member in the right way and every expression, but I'm going to try to tell you the truth. So, institutes work with means that can be private and state-owned. Perhaps there is a possibility and proper interference depending on privatisation or possibly a different form of establishment of the institute, but it is important that there are only these two forms of property and it is important to know who is the titlemaker. It is he who is the bearer of rights, use, management and availability. If he is the founder of the Republic, then the Fund Act applies in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. We have a Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia that gives consent to some acts such as leases, etc. Officially, the government of the Republic of Serbia is the bearer. If we're done with this, let's take a look at the situation that you've predicted here, and we're asking it to change. You also predicted local self-government and AP Vojvodina. I'll show you now a state of affairs when it comes to the AP Vojvodina. In this assembly, the MP in the earlier meeting was Bojan Pajtic, who is now the president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina. He was even president of the DS parliamentary group during one period. At a time when there was no TV transmission, and they had big problems with the quorum, Mr. Pajtic took a stunt of these cards and went from place to place, poked there to make a number on that screen that would allow, at the time Mrs. Natasa Micic, to close her eyes and say - there was a table and something, although there were twenty, thirty people. Radicals went out, I stayed, I went after Paytic and I took out the cards and I threw. I'm so sorry I didn't kill myself with him then. I may have ruined my political career, but I'm sure I would have saved Serbia. As president of the Executive Council of the AP Vojvodina, he found his coalition partner the same yellow Tihomir Stanic or Simic, I don't know what it was like, Karic. It's a man who can talk to you for three days and say nothing. He's mastered some management, he's visiting there, he's following Otto Habsburg's policy, who died, and that's that Danube component, that's that intermarum, that's that old connection concept. That's what Canak keeps saying - Vojvodina, the Danube region, we don't need to go towards Belgrade, we need to go towards Budapest, according to Vienna, that's the concept. When you give people like that this authority, there's nothing from the state. If Tadic, who is inclined to say anything and everything, has no responsibility, he can say something today, the next day who was nothing. You see, when he's this sick, you know who runs the state, Idoli, those Idoli groups, those his advisors. He's just media, whether it's gonna be like this in the media, like this, like this. Someone from abroad comes in and says, "This Danube must be there, please decide on the Executive Council, this bill goes to the meeting, which has been set up by someone from the Permanent Conference of Cities, and the secretary of that Permanent Conference is a man from the DS, and you didn't want to change it. You had to remove it. It's a society of bad intentions, remember. Then from your concept of law, your concept of science development has nothing to do with it. If Karic is added to that, who knows how much it costs, so he picks up those scientists, so there they are, and here, there's nothing from Serbian science. What do I suggest? Mr Paja Momchilov's amendment is fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. He was in line with the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. I can't tell you how things stand about the Omnibus Law that applies to the AP Vojvodina, because I don't want to see that law, because I have a political stance that it doesn't exist, because it was simply the result of the settlement, when Djindjic couldn't handle Canka. The canopy gets sore, soaks, and then clots. We promised citizens autonomy, a robbery point, and the robbery point means they are not money in Belgrade, but are in Novi Sad, not under the auspices of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but under the auspices of Canka. It's their fight for democracy and human rights, fighting for their pocket. Now he's making his Pannonian wolves, there's this G064, it's a real terrorist organization, he and Kasa. Now add these scientists to them, so when Karic bribes some scientist, some, not all, scientists are people of integrity, they're not so vain, but they're looking for their own, because they know what they're invested in, it's hard work, it's mining work. What some people don't know is their problem. With great respect, we should go to those people who do science. They're kneeling. A good man in a difficult economic condition can kneel, that they abuse his name and last name, his title, his scientific achievements, his scientific knowledge. That an unwitting man cooperates with the regular fucks, Tadic, Karic, DS, PSS, NGOs, women in black, white, green, as you wish to turn, because there's as much of it as you want. When it reaches Bogoljub Karic, with its Shiptar BK TV, B92 with its Ustasha TV, the people are rightfully lost. Therefore, the amendments submitted by my fellow Members to Article 35 and Article 36 are in accordance with the Constitution. As for Article 35, we can say in some ways that it's on the border, and why? However, some analogy exists with the Higher Education Act, which is where you'll agree, I mean the status part. In Article 36, be sure, by adopting the amendment of Mr. Paja Momchilov, you are in the positions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and today it is an honor to be in the positions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Don't be shy. Those who don't know anything are attacking the Constitution. Those who know what the Constitution is could list two or three things that may need to be changed in the Constitution, because there has been a difference since 1990. The ones most said that they were bothered by the constitution, like DS, they blocked it. They don't know what needs to be changed in the Constitution, because they need someone to write them aside, so they can convince Bosko Ristic, which would be difficult, so he can convince us here. They are state-of-the-art only for the state community, and the state is distracted by everything that is a Serbian tradition. They're cancer-earth Serbian political scenes, remember these words I told you. The danger in yellow has prevailed over Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23725	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 37th Amendment was submitted by Vojislav Mihailovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 39 of the amendment by Vojislav Mihailovic, a representative of the proposings and the Committee on Science and Technological Development, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, MP Zoran Krasic tabled and just pulled this amendment. The Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. The applicant's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Member of the 46th Amendment was submitted by the Commissioner of the Verse of Radet. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23726	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the principle debate on this law on behalf of the SRS, the doctors, professors of the university, said that they had found common language with the minister, because the minister accepted a good number of amendments to the SRS and, indeed, I must say, showed one true relationship between the minister and the MPs, that is to say, the amendments that were indeed meaningful and well-intentioned in this case. This amendment to Article 46, I will only comment briefly, talks about the Research and Development Institute, which can carry out scientific research work in order to achieve the general interest if, among other things, there are in working relation to indefinitely, with full-time, at least 12 researchers, competent for the field of science that the Institute is dealing with, of which at least seven researchers in scientific or teaching titles, and in the amendment, we have added words -- at least one of which is called a multi-cultural associate and five researchers in calling researchers associates or higher titles. A similar amendment is the one that the Committee has accepted and the minister has agreed with him, in fact one part of my amendment is contained in this amendment to the Government. Now that I'm a cepid, if I wanted to, then I'd say I insist on my amendment, but there's really no reason, because through all this, my amendment has been accepted. And it's a good thing that's the case, because, by amendment, we actually wanted to tighten the criteria for the establishment of scientific research organisations, and of course, that's obviously the intention and the minister, and that we in the SRS think it's good, because that way we'll avoid the situation that academic politician e.g. set up a scientific research organization. Or what almost happened today, and I'm really glad that Mr. President of the Assembly pulled it away, and now I apologize to the President of the Assembly, he's not here, well, he'll hear me, and the Minister for taking his time, but I have to go back to that law very briefly, because I haven't had a chance to talk about this bill on the traits of the Republic of Serbia. So, it almost happened that the law would pass the procedure, be adopted, and then, ladies and gentlemen, it would happen that the Order of Emperor Dusan would be carried by someone who called on Serbs to go to the Kim elections and thus legalise the institutions of the so-called Kosovo, or Kosovo institutions. The medal would be carried by one who called on the Pope of Benedict in Serbia, without the consent of the Serbian Orthodox Church, who said Albanians have the right to self-determination and self-determination, or to secede Kosovo from the Republic of Serbia. Whoever asked for the division of KIM, who said he didn't need the Constitution, because he has a direct relationship with the people, and you remember that's what Hitler's Nazi ideologists used to say at the time, and that someone, I guess, is clear to you all, Boris Tadic. What happens next? Boris Tadic was like the President of the Republic in this law which, thank God, will not be in that text brought forward, was intended as head of the Roman Catholic Church, I apologize, there stood - the head of all the Orders, but it associates me with the head of the Roman Catholic Church. And then what would happen? Then Chief Boris Tadic, likely to give the Order to his friend Bogoljub Karic, and Bogoljub Karic and Boris Tadic are doing a very dangerous job these days, in one very dangerous mission for Serbia. The two, supported financially by Thaci, and Ekrem Luke and the Shiptar Lobby, are co-executors in the destruction of Serbia's state. That is what they do, unfortunately, right through this House, that is, through some people from this House. We talked about it a lot these days, but simply after what is being done in the media these days, especially on the TV of the Shiptar, as Krasic said just before, and it's called BK TV, now it's trying over that TV and over Sorosev B92 to impose a public opinion that both Tadic and Karic are in fact right, that MPs can simply fly over here now, now there, and that they are destroying the government, the state. Of course, if I wasn't misunderstood, I wouldn't be sorry to bring down the government of Vojislav Kostunica, because we in the SRS are doing everything we can to do it, but we just want to do it the way the Constitution allows, how they allow positive laws. Never a thief, never a fraud. And what Boris Tadic and Bogoljub Karic do, they steal. He who steals is called a thief in our people. He who steals mandates and destroys the state in this way is called the traitor of his country and his people. So I say it's a good thing that the previous law was removed from the agenda, and as far as this amendment is concerned, since it was proposed by the Committee, I think the minister will accept it, too, I have no reason to explain it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23727	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23728	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I apologize for briefly discussing the member who proposed the Committee and I hope that the parliamentary majority will accept it, and I am particularly pleased that this amendment has been accepted by the minister, so that amendments have been made in Article 70. Since I couldn't attend the Committee yesterday, since I wasn't a member, and I was busy with other affairs, in the course of a principled debate, I suggested a certain change in this article related above all to calling a research associate. Unfortunately, this amendment, which amends Article 70, reads about what the bill says, that calling an associate researcher can acquire a person who has been enrolled in doctoral, doctoral, academic studies, which have completed previous levels of study with a total average score of at least eight, deals with scientific research and has published audited scientific papers. This is all indisputable and all can stand, but what has so far been the basic criterion for a person to be elected to a research associate is his master's degree, defense master's work. In the principle debate, I suggested that it says here that calling a research associate can acquire a face that has a defensive master's work, enrolled doctoral or doctoral academics, etc. We're going to have a situation where the people who are now mastered these days should wait for their choice by the scientific council in calling a research associate until the moment they enter or apply for doctoral studies, and that will be only in the fall of next year, since the school year started, and unfortunately, although most of the colleges did not do doctoral studies. Simply, we'll freeze the election to call the researcher-co-worker who has mastered until the adoption of this law or will master after the adoption, who has already completed their master's thesis and will gain the title of Master of Science, and normally respecting that these persons must have an average score above eight in the course of Master's Studies. If there is a possibility of a technical editorial and provided the minister agrees with this suggestion, I would be very pleased. I think we will do a service to a certain number of persons who have acquired the calling of the Master of Science in the past period and that they will be able to normally go into the election process in calling a research associate by their scientific councils where they will work and where they will compete as research associates for projects early next year, because this competitive deadline i.e. Further research on some projects will be in early next year. If the minister is in agreement and if there is a possibility of a technical editorial, I think that what I propose is absolutely too much of an interest for the persons who have mastered, and also for all those who will end the master's degree in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23729	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was submitted by Vojislav Mihailovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology submitted to Article 86 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 91st Amendment was submitted by Vojislav Mihailovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of members of the 99th and of the 99th Amendment, MP Vojislav Mihailovic submitted. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology has submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technology has submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. development. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 106 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the People's MP, Paya Momchilov. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Science and Technological Development did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Mašić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23730	Ladies and gentlemen, let me, on behalf of Mr. Paia Momchilov, explain the amendment to Article 106. Mr Momchilov suggested adding to Article 106 a new position 3, which reads as follows: "The scientific research organisation that applied for the proposed programme or project will be determined by the parent board. "In the meantime, the proposed amendment was originally corrected, so that the parent board stands in place. The essence of this proposal is that this article defines the right to compete, i.e. the achievement of what is defined by Article 10, and these are programmes of general interest. Normally, the ministry is calling a competition, institutions interested in submitting their programmes and projects to achieve it. Mr Momchilov considered that the assessment of the similarities, the fulfilment of the conditions and everything else in order to achieve the general interest programme set out in Article 10 should be given by the parent board. It is precisely this bill that determines that parent committees play a key role in assessing how to apply for projects, as well as project reports. He felt that it should be complemented or more precisely defined by this Article 106. That's why he proposed an amendment like this. I appreciate that there is a basis for the proposer of this law to accept the amendment, i.e. the addition of Article 106 precisely on the basis of the fact that it is given or specified in the essence of the roles and importance of the parent board and in the assessment of those so-called so-called ‘the Committee’. Specific programmes defined in Article 10. A bill of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23731	Thank you, Mr. Machine. Anyone else by the same amendment? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23732	Unfortunately, the promoter cannot accept this amendment, or he could accept this amendment if Serbia really were an ideal country. We mentioned it in the discussion in principle of the Bologna review. It has often happened, and this is also the present experience, that projects that have been very well reviewed in Bologna give very bad results and vice versa, that projects that went badly through in Bologna give excellent results. The very fact that someone has a great idea doesn't necessarily mean that he or a team of explorers around him is able to process this idea scientifically properly. That's what one part of Bologna's experience is. So that's not enough ideas, that it's necessary to evaluate the team of people behind them. In the current project assessment system developed by the Ministry of Science and the Environment, even a large part of the overall score has a previous experience, the previous work of the team that proposed it, a small part of the very evaluation of the idea that exists. The bologna taught us that. In an ideal situation, in ideal Serbia, with ideal people, the possibility of the parent board saying for one project proposal - the proposal is excellent, but we think someone else should do it, maybe it would work just fine. Serbia, unfortunately, is not an ideal country, and we are afraid that the amendment is too idealistic and that it opens up opportunities for abuses, and I am convinced that it is not what Momchilov wanted. This may make sense, perhaps, not for the projects referred to in Article 10, but perhaps for the projects referred to in Article 103, where "as well as specific projects and projects which are of strategic importance for the study and development of national culture and for the improvement of the general civilization level of society". This is one of the newspapers, to discuss what projects are of strategic importance to our study and development of national culture. Two projects are now regulated by law: encyclopaedia and dictionary. In such situations, it would certainly be justified for the parent board to say - this is something that the nation and the state need and they should do the best, and these are the best. However, with Article 10, we are afraid that it opens too much hole and that it is too much for Serbia as it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23733	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. On Article 109 of the amendment, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina submitted. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment, the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 109 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Branislav Blazic. A representative of the Proposer and the Committee on Science and Technological Development adopted this amendment, with a correction. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, but the Legislative Committee has not declared itself correct, and will do so, I suppose, in the coming period. There's no reason to discuss it. The Committee on Science and Technological Development submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Science and Technological Development has submitted to Article 108 of the amendment. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Serbian Encyclopedia (Statistics) You have adopted the proposal for a law submitted by the Government. You have received an amendment submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 7th Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meso Omerovic. The Committee on Science and Technological Development and the Committee's representative, at the Committee's session, adopted this amendment, with a correction, and the Legislative Committee proposes that the amendment be rejected, but did not declare amendments, so we have the same situation. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the examination of the Bill's proposal in particular, does the proposal representative Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environmental Protection, want the final word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23734	I don't have much to add from what I already said at the end of the debate in the principle of these four laws. I want to thank you all. I think that Serbian science, I repeat, is the best part of Serbian society today and that Serbian scientists deserve these laws and, above all, is one correct and constructive debate and war argument that we have often had these days. On my part, the National Assembly has the word that the Ministry will do absolutely anything to ensure that these laws are fully implemented in the best spirit of what they describe today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-12-01-0.u23735	Thank you, Mr. Popovic. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on the Rijeka of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts You have received a report from the Legislative Committee. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 140(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Since amendments have not been tabled on the proposal for this law, before I conclude the search in particular, does Dr Aleksandar Popovic, Minister of Science and Environment Protection, want the final word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the legislators of the two laws, which by the MPs, voted by emergency procedure, became an additional part of the agenda, the government of the Republic of Serbia this morning, with the presence of Minister Popovic and the legislator of the second law pulled out during the law's review, the National Assembly held a debate on all the points of the agenda of this session. According to Article 85(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hereby appoint 8 December 2005, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I thank everyone, both MPs and professional services, who worked both Saturday and Sunday and all these days. Thank you very much. Bon appétit. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 108 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. we can start working day, because more than one third of the MPs are present. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported that he has been prevented from attending today's session. Since the National Assembly has finished discussing all the points of the agenda of this session, we will move to a decision after the break at 10:30. Please inform all colleagues who are not present at the moment. We move to a decision on all the points of the agenda of this session at 10:30. Thank you.
