ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Obradović and Sava Urosevic (before noon). We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE RAD(S) I remind you that on the last day of work of this session we started the debate on the amendment to Article 62, which was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. People's MPs Verica Radeta, Momir Markovic and Aleksandar Djordjevic participated in the debate on the amendment. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 68th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Bojan Kekic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Members of the 69th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zvonimir Stevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Toma Busetic and Zvonimir Stevic submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11791	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS thinks this amendment is not good. It is simply not necessary to limit the length of the vacation, as the amendment says that the vacation may last at least 20 days and 25 days at most. We believe that the solution that we have offered, which the government has accepted, as well as the minister, is a solid solution, although we advocate an even better solution when it comes to employed workers, officials, simply that all the most important criteria should be counted in the law itself. So, in addition to these 20 days minimum should be written in the law itself and other criteria, i.e. above all the annual vacations, the addition of the annual vacation based on the contribution to work, the supplement based on the complexity of work, on the basis of work experience or work experience, based on working conditions, and disabled workers should have at least one day's allowance for vacation; then the expert prepares should also figure in the law itself. We think all of this needs to be specified. There should also be a supplement for single parents, for children up to 14 years old, then for parents who have three and more children up to 14 years old. Of course, in this law it was possible to define an annual vacation for persons who are 55 years old and 30 years of employment, or 25 years of internship when it comes to women and 50 years of life, and those persons should have a minimum annual holiday of 30 days. All these solutions already existed, so we think that our proposals would be even better for all the employees. We primarily think about organizations and companies that are not covered by a special collective agreement. So we're not talking about state bodies, we're thinking about public enterprises. We are not referring to organisations whose founder is the Government, because there will certainly be a signatories of these special collective agreements. Here, first of all, we think of employers who will not be covered by a collective contract, because there are very few of these employers and people who are members of the Employers' Association and where collective agreements will be directly applied. There's been a lot of talk here about the SPS taking first of all for employees, not thinking a lot about employers. Maybe that's true, because when I talk about employers and this unresolved status of employees, we primarily think about private employers. They look at every moment to reduce all possible rights of workers, to minimise them, even when it comes to vacationing. You know, no matter what the paper says and the law says they have a minimum of 20 days, employers won't respect it. Here, we can ask a large number of companies, companies that have between 50 and 100 employees. The employer gives you ten days' rest. There's no Saturday it's a day off, nor will Saturday count on vacation. So, simply, I think we're deeply right when we demand all of this. The law should clearly specify the provisions on annual holidays, as many employers, especially private ones, see those rights as a minimum. Here, and when we talk about Bogoljub Karic, you think he's a good employer for all his employees. He is good for the editor-in-chief who has 5,000 euros, three or seven, no longer known, but these journalists, we talked here in the hall, have 200 to 300 euros. So, all these people need to be protected by the law, and when it comes to vacationing, and when it comes to other rights that belong to them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11792	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Toma Busetic and Zvonimir Stevic submitted together to Article 73 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11793	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about the following. It's about taking a year's vacation in parts. In the bill, the first part of the annual vacation will be for three weeks, and our proposal is to be at least two weeks. Why do we insist on such a solution? First of all, no one's gonna limit the employee so he can use three weeks of vacation. This two-week solution is much better and more reliable, because simply a large number of employees will mostly use twenty-day vacations. What does that mean? This means that if the first part of the vacation is three weeks, then we'll have a situation where the second part of the vacation is not used as it is. Considering that the paid leave has been reduced to five days, the majority of people will benefit from those days of the second part of the vacation for the days off. Just to prevent it, we think it's a much more favourable solution, so we suggested that the first part of the vacation be at least two weeks, and the second part is what's left. This is in some way the most just solution to split the vacation into two parts. All of this, we think, is going to be one big abuse, and if we're on the stand, when we're talking about an annual vacation, and when we're talking about private entrepreneurs and employers again, they're going to be aware of what they think is enough. And that's enough - a vacation of ten days, and there won't be any special and special protection for all employees. Here, this is our solution to split the annual vacation into two parts, and the first part is at least two weeks. We think it's a good solution and in the practice of our country, over all these years, that solution has also figured out. In Western Europe and America, we have this solution for three weeks, but there are different opportunities, it's quite different. In our country, we have to gradually and concesively adapt to these Western solutions. Otherwise, we are witnesses in this congregation today, and even more so in the previous, that MPs have extremely insisted that this country and this people have to work, that this country is not working, that this people are not working enough and that we do not have results. Unfortunately, it was most discussed by MPs who did not have a day of work, who lived 50 years of their lives, and who do not know what it means to get up in six or seven hours and do any work. So in this whole story, we need to be realistic. Our solution is good, and in the day of the vote, I expect the minister will accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11794	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11795	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law provides for a provision in Article 76 to make up for the worker if there is a situation where the employer's guilt worker is unable to use the annual vacation guaranteed by law to him by all international conventions, in particular the recommendations of the ILO and the directives of the Council of Europe. This amendment was intended to correct injustices against workers who could not use annual leave by the employer and the draft law is a fact-finding worker by providing that, if the worker cannot use the annual leave, the employer receives a fee at the level of the basic earnings. However, since there is no blame for the workers for not being able to use the vacation, he is effectively being punished for receiving only basic earnings, not for the profit he would have earned if he had worked. There were three amendments. One amendment was tabled by the Socialist Party, the second SPO-NS and the third SRS. The government has accepted amendments to the SPS-NS, where they asked for compensation for unused annual vacations to be found guilty by the employer at the level of average earnings over the previous three months. The SRS amendment provides for alternative two options, which in our opinion is more favourable for workers, so that the worker can choose between two options. One is that he receives a fee of average earnings in the previous three months or a salary he would have earned if he had used his vacation. So, an alternative option has been left for the worker to use one or another option, depending on which of these options is more favourable for the worker, so we think this amendment is more favourable for the workers than these two amendments adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11796	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a member of the law on which MP Vojislav Milajić, on behalf of the SRS, submitted the amendment, reads: "If the employer's fault is not used by the employer, he has the right to compensation for the basic income determined by the general act and the contract of employment". The basic earnings are not paid in any company, but in addition to the basic earnings, employees have other benefits. It's past work, accessories for transportation, warm meal, etc. Normally, the rate of profit depends on the effect of that month. This is how a worker who could not use an annual vacation, because the employer wanted to make a small number of workers, so he fired part of it, only pays the basic earnings, besides the profits he otherwise earned. National MP Vojislav Milajic's amendment says: In article 76, the words "basic earnings established by a general act and a contract of work" are replaced by the words "indemnity compensation that he would have made to use an annual holiday or at the level of average earnings in the previous three months, if it is more favourable for the employee". This is how injustice is corrected in this otherwise bad law, which normally you, since you have a majority in parliament, will adopt and thus bring down on the coat of arms of employees, those who are still employed, a huge burden. Speaking of employment, on Saturday 5 February, "Blic" issued a statement by Minister Lalovic, who says, "I have been contacted by some directors who say they are already in a position to bring workers from Bulgaria and Romania, because our workers do not want to work for a salary of 20,000." I'm sorry the minister isn't here, so I'm going to ask him to come out here right after me and tell him who the companies are and what the directors are, what jobs our workers won't do for 20,000 dinars a month, which is why they have to import workers from Romania. I told the Minister in a peorative sense that if he continues to run this sector, we will soon have to import workers because he hired everyone, you saw those percentages that he calculated on some bad digitron. However, Minister Lalovic confirms the lie he told about the speaker and the means of public information. I will, unless the Minister or someone from the Ministry answers this question, in the form of a parliamentary matter, but in the course of today or tomorrow, I will ask the Minister a question, to say what companies are and who the directors have been complaining about, so that we can send people from the Bureau. Our bureaus, by the way, are overcrowded, so we can send people from the bureau. At least nine-tenths of those who will work for those companies will surely be found, so the minister will not have to torture himself to import labour from Romania.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11798	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 77th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zivorad Smiljanic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11799	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow MPs, colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group have submitted an amendment to Article 77, which is practically composed of two parts. In the first part, we want those five days of paid leave over the year to increase to seven, but what I would really like to do is to focus that's the second part of the amendment that applies to voluntary blood donors. In fact, for all those who willingly give blood to get two days of paid leave, except for the day they gave blood. Simply, one really serious question arises whether the government will take one of its priorities to create a national programme related to voluntary blood donation. Why am I saying this? First of all, in situations where blood or blood derivatives are to be given, only a man can give blood to a man. We need to know that the basic principles of blood donation are volunteering, anonymity and, of course, freeness. If in such situations truly unknown people willingly give their blood, saving other people's lives, then the basic question arises who is responsible and who should stand behind people who make such a human gesture. Of course it's supposed to be a state, and we shouldn't let, as we've been having lately, slowed down, when a clinic or a hospital loses certain blood, certain blood groups and rh factors, panic in the public, in the media, appeal to people who have this and that blood group. Of course it's a big panic if there's no blood. We have to get past that. We can't just leave it at the local level, municipalities that in some environments they might be doing something for voluntary blood donation, because we should be aware of one fact, no matter how much technology goes forward, never and no one will be able to synthesize neither blood nor blood products. It will always be possible for only a man to give and help. That's why I can't accept this argument given to make it a lot of employers pay three days for voluntary blood donation. You know, this can be watched twice. First of all, which is why we have to consider in our mental capacity that employers are not human. On the contrary, I think that every employer should greet and help every single worker who willingly gives blood and thus save other people's lives. I wish, but not so, this would be an acceptable explanation for me, if all employees were voluntary blood donors, but they weren't. I'm going to try, and I'm sorry that Mr. Minister isn't here, because he was saying some statistical data, which I'm going to say are also very reliable, they're being tested, because 90% of the voluntary blood donors are unfortunately people who are at the lowest level of existence; therefore, on the edge of existence, their own and their families. They may have little incomes, maybe they don't work anywhere, but they have a big heart and a high awareness of what it means to help someone who is unhappy and thus save a life. Please, as harsh as that sounds, there are voluntary blood donors who mean the meal they get after giving blood. We must face that truth. In doing so, what has our country done for voluntary blood donors? I have to say, the state as such almost did nothing. First of all, if voluntary blood donors come from the village to the nearest blood transfusion service, where they will give blood, they are not paid travel expenses. For God's sake, it's humane to come and give blood, and maybe it's someone who doesn't even have to pay for that bus ticket. Second, voluntary donors first have no priority in treatment. Voluntary blood donors don't have the ability to get medication when they need it to cure the negative list, like the burden of the state. Or, for example, up until a few months ago, maybe almost a regulation was passed, volunteers even paid for participation. She's off now. I think it's been a while, at least until a national programme for voluntary blood donation is developed, that we try, according to our own advice, in every legal project that allows us to protect and show due respect and respect for all those people who willingly give blood and thus save lives. I know of those who did it yesterday, today, and who will always do it, which are primarily the Red Cross community organization. I can say very proudly -- that's my people in Kikinda, that's the District Committee of the Red Cross of Vojvodina and the Red Cross of Serbia, but is that enough, is it time for us, too, by adopting this amendment, to show that we respect and respect this gesture that voluntary people are doing by helping others.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11800	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11801	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, representatives of the union, an amendment submitted on behalf of the SPS, which concerns this member, should be supported for several reasons. We need to show that we're not afraid of employers. When campaigns are funded by wealthy employers, you have a special relationship with them. Let's show today we're not afraid of rich employers. Voluntary blood donation, among other things, involves several things. She was talking about it. I don't want to talk about it. I don't want to talk about it. My theme today is something else. Please, I'll do it again. Three percent of private company employees are members of the union. Some of these people are voluntary blood donors and do not use this day, nor should they say they should be absent that day to give blood. This country has to regulate the system, by law. I'm a volunteer blood donor. In my family, they were users of voluntary blood donation. I know exactly what kind of problems are in this area, and I know exactly what it means when someone's missing just one bottle of blood. Of course we don't, and don't ask you to understand that, we don't take this as a mere form to encourage someone to give blood to have three days off, but this is how we express respect for those who give blood. That's the point. We don't pay those who give blood, we respect and encourage them, and we need to do everything we can to stimulate people in schools, colleges, working organizations, where possible, first of all. Mrs. Dacin talked about it. If you don't have any right, no benefits at the doctor's, or when someone in your family gets sick, when you can't get that one day off, no bus ticket, no decent meal, what are we actually doing? Please, I speak for those who need blood for severe surgery, for the treatment of severe diseases, many of these people are often in a hopeless situation and their healing or healing depends solely on someone's goodwill. Today, our goodwill may depend on whether or not we accept this amendment. Is that how we resent those who hire people? We're getting in the way. That's the risk we need to take. One plus two is quite enough stimulating measures, I'm talking about days off for those people who want to give blood. How many voluntary blood donors in Serbia? A little, unfortunately. How many give more than once a year's blood? Very little. Therefore, employers do not take any chances with this relationship. So, in one company with 20 employees, unfortunately, there are one or two voluntary blood donors. We will not damage any of these people who are employers, and we will help those who are sick. So please, this is no ordinary amendment, this is an amendment that significantly improves the environment above all, giving legal frameworks that people can freely choose to give blood. Although I must say, even when there is this law, and when this amendment is adopted, there will be employers whose worker must not ask this question. We unfortunately live in such a country, it's true. Maybe someone thinks it's different. Out of a sense of honor, and some others, I couldn't say concrete examples. So, workers today in Serbia are unprotected on a number of grounds, but we are not talking here today about patients most often assisted by workers. Among the voluntary donors is 75% of the people from direct production, and therefore I ask you to understand and support this amendment, and please support it. No harm will come from that, and all the sick people in Serbia will benefit greatly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11802	The word has an MP, Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11803	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I support the SPS amendment, and it will certainly support the DSS. Why? This amendment and we wanted to endure, logically, when they submitted it, why should we bear it. Gentlemen People's MPs, this is not an amendment or a political one, nor does anyone need to get points on this, but we simply need to know that we are people here who need to think about the people and above all about the disease. We think of the sick, because blood can't get any synthetic, no other way, it can only be obtained by voluntary giving. We need to know that this is a double benefit, a benefit for the sick one who cries out and who only sees salvation in voluntary giving, or if he gets blood; it's not just about full blood, it's about blood products. Next, this is what the state gets. He'll get a healthy man, and the opposite of giving out money for it, which would be huge figures. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever a law is passed, and it is a matter of voluntary donors, I will be for voluntary donors, because these are the people who help the sick and the most vulnerable at any moment. Imagine an example, if we're talking about an RH negative group of people, every time they call it a voluntary donor, it goes and saves one or more lives. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at no time must we be merciful to whoever tries to take away these voluntary donors the least right, and the right to three days free is nothing. In three days, you can't rebuild that blood that man gave you. It must take more time if we all want to know, and we doctors know it. He can't even work for three days. So I'd keep going, that employer who tries to do something about the man who gave the voluntary blood, that employer should be severely punished. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I call on everyone to vote in favour of this amendment, simply to show that we think of the people not only in pre-election campaigns, but also when laws are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11804	The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11805	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment of ours, I'd say, has two parts. We first suggested that the paid leave be increased from five to seven days. That's the kind of solution you've had before. Any employee in one calendar year can get married, can get divorced, can move, pass an expert exam and a dozen other situations that require several days of paid leave. It's the first part of our amendment. The second part of the amendment is very specific and refers to voluntary blood donors, where we suggest that besides that day when blood is given, the state pays, or the employer, two more. We have three days for a voluntary blood donor. We think this is one minimum to have blood in sufficient quantities. We have witnessed in recent months, even in the last year or several years, that clinics very often appeal to voluntary blood donors. I would like to mention one more thing, which is very important, most often are voluntary donors of blood to people who work in direct production and are directed to the employer. We know that there are no problems about the possible demands of various employees who work in public enterprises, insurance organisations, state authorities, there is no problem. Problems are primarily related to employers and businesses where they are direct producers. Unfortunately, it is true that the poorest are the most often and to the greatest extent voluntary donors of blood. We consider this requirement a minimum of ours to be accepted. I can tell you that we have accepted this amendment on the Committee on Labour and Employment. I believe the Assembly will decide that in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11806	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment. The Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply amazing that the amendment of counterpart Peter Jojic as a member of the 87th Prime Minister has not been accepted. The President said the amendment is legally possible, and I say, not that it is legal, but that the only possible solution is as provided for in this amendment. Article 87, which this amendment refers to, reads: "A full-time employee under the age of 18 of life cannot be determined for more than 35 hours a week or for more than 8 hours a day. "Article 50 of the same law states: "The general act can establish working hours less than 40 hours a week, but not less than 36 hours a week. "The apparent conflict between members of 50 and 87, as one member says cannot be shorter than 36, and in the other, it cannot be longer than 35 hours. What the Government now tells us in its argument – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that these members have established the protection of an employee under 18 years of age. Article 50. The bill applies to all employees and provides for the possibility for the employer to establish working hours for a shorter period than 40 hours, but not less than 36 hours a week. The government says the provisions of Articles 50 and 87 are not contrary because it is the regulation of two different institutes. There are no government representatives, but that's why they're fellow MPs here, and there's a lot of graduate lawyers, so let someone deny me that we're wrong, and that what the government said is right. This is not possible, because if the Government had said in the second position of Article 50 that it could not be less than 36 hours a week, except in the cases provided for by this law, then, of course, it would be clear that it applies to persons under 18 years of age. The government, as a proposer, obviously missed it and I don't see what it's so terrible to admit, yes, we've made a mistake, let's make this right so this law is really legally clear to us, precise and to avoid cohesion between two members in the same law. So I suggest to my fellow Members that they take our objections seriously and our obvious intention to improve the law. Obviously, on the basis of this amendment, all of our amendments are both meaningful and with a very good intention, because if they weren't, it might have been possible for us not to notice this colitision, as it did to the government, as a proposer. If we warn the Government, I really don't see what's so terrible that the government accepts a truly meaningful, justifiable and only possible amendment to the SRS. I don't know why it hurts so much, and it doesn't hurt, believe me. That is why I urge my fellow Members to accept this amendment in voting day. I am even convinced that some MPs will give a concrete explanation today that this amendment is meaningful and that only possible solution is possible. I hope you accept this amendment. If you don't, then it's really obvious that you, like the government, are doing everything that isn't for the benefit of the citizens. This law has a lot of objections, and you've heard our remarks and in principle debate, you've been listening to them for two or three days in the discussion of details. If you do not want to correct what systemically changes the relationship with the employee, according to the employer, then at least change what is, apparently, the formal failure of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11808	Following the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11809	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to propose to the government to call a tender and buy Minister Lalovic a new digitron, because this is a calculator on which they count those percentages of the number of employees, those statistics he presented the other day. In one place, article 50 says 36 hours, and here's 35. Now it puts the employer in a position to necessarily break the law. If he gave 35 hours, he broke a member of the 50th Labour Act, and if he did 36 hours, then he broke a member of the 80th Labour Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's obvious that this law has been prescribed from somewhere, and it's obvious that copyists are not from that Resave school, so they're copying what it says, but they're copying how it came to mind. Probably one of the six copyists looked like an A, and that's how we got into a situation where in the same law, two members were absolutely in college. In order for this law to be respected, it must be settled first. After all these discussions and after all these amendments, what comes to the surface, that's the only possibility -- that the Ministry should return this law from the procedure, at least sit down, at least read once more, twice, to determine where they were wrong about translation and copying, and then, with some law that's going to look like something, they come out. While I am behind the pay phone, I absolutely support that amendment of MP Zivodarka Dacin, because even in the blackest, as you have the custom of saying, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the exploitative regime of Slobodan Milosevic, voluntary blood donors had two days, not counting on the day they gave blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11810	I assume you meant Mr. Bushettic's amendment, which Mrs. Dacin spoke of. Anyone else on this amendment? No, thank you. Members of the 94th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11811	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with counterpart Tom Busetic, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94. Proposal for a labour law, on 1st and 4. Not to read the amendment, the point is that mothers who have a third or fourth child are entitled to one plus one, so for two years of maternity leave. In what state we live, in what conditions mothers give birth and raise children today in Serbia, there is no need to particularly explain. Unfortunately, the media in Serbia favour a completely different concept, a completely different relationship with the family and are completely uncritical of this issue. The state does not have enough economic power to help to the extent that this would be necessary. I want to say a few things and ask you to support this amendment. In Serbia today, for non-medical reasons, there is a huge number of violent interruptions in pregnancy. An enormous number of marriages, unfortunately, for medical reasons cannot have children. Those marriages that normally give birth and raise children often have only one child. Under such conditions, the state is obliged to take whatever is in its power, and the power of the state today is reflected in the political will of the MPs who, with 126 votes, if that is national and state interest, can translate into a legal solution and help define this area in a better way. So, I only appeal to all of you, to your consciousness to support this amendment, because that mother who gives birth to a third or fourth child, not only extends her family and contributes joy to her home, in her family, and family and mother, above all, do something that is most important to one nation and one country, in conditions where the birth rate is below all possible criteria, when, in practice, in most municipalities, the number of dead exceeds the number of born. It is our duty to help define this in the way that Toma Busetic and I have suggested and to stimulate mothers to have more children. We will do our best to ensure that we extend this paid leave from one more year to another, in conditions as provided for by the law, and with the amendment that we have proposed. That would be quite satisfying. I know what arguments can be against. There are several: the financial power of the state, I return to my employers. I keep telling you that and telling myself because we created an economic and political environment where the employer decides on several important issues in the state. So he hires, he fires, he stimulates, he can in various ways affect everything that we're talking about here today. That's why it's our duty to prescribe the rules. If we prescribe clear rules, then those who hire will know under what conditions they employ people. Also, I want to point to one phenomenon. We in Serbia today, practically, except in the administration, in some other public enterprises we do not have the possibility of a foster mother returning to the workplace from which she went on maternity leave. If, in doing so, she was a manager, she had a leading position, if she was employed by a private company, it's completely impossible. That thing's not well regulated either. Those who need to control it don't do it the best way possible. I understand the philosophy of capital, I understand the philosophy of employers, but again I say, my job here is not to elaborate their philosophy, my job here is to deal with those who are in a working relationship with them and who are supposed to have labour rights, and employers need to have obligations to employees and to the state, because they have assumed this obligation, if the law so requires, when workers have been employed. I ask you to support this amendment, because a huge number of families in Serbia will gain the right to raise a third-fourth child in a larger chamber and in a larger comfort. I think that's the whole point.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11812	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bushettic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, on behalf of SPS colleague Rajko Baralic and I have submitted this amendment, where we demand that maternity leave for women employed last two years for the third and fourth children. In this way, we want to speed up the birth rate in terms of the general social and economic crisis, and we think that the extension of maternity leave to two years for the third and fourth children represents a significant incentive for younger people to decide for both the third and fourth children. This is one promotion, even in relation to the Labour Relations Act, which envisioned a maternity leave of two years only for a third child. We believe that now the fourth child should be included, because we are all aware that there is a white plague on the scene in Serbia. Through this amendment, we want at least a minimal acceleration, which is important at this point, given that in a few months, perhaps in a month, there will be a law on financial support for the family, where significant financial support is foreseen for the third and fourth children. We know that now we have financial support for the first and second children who are 30 to 60 grand, this would be 100 and 150 grand. So, if there is a complementarity to this proposal and the financial support law, it will significantly stimulate young people to decide on the move. Of course, we know that there is an opponent of such a solution, primarily in some allegations that it is impossible to plan a larger family without financial resources. That's not true, because we have a good example in our country, before the war or between the two wars, every Serbian family had five, six, seven children, because that's the only way we could, as a matter of fact, recover. That funding is not the most important thing, it's an example of Western Europe, and we know that there's a crisis, that these families have one or two children. Therefore, the biggest task of this country is to develop awareness of the restoration of the population. It's very important to us if we want to survive as a people and as a state. These days, we have received a proposal for a law on family renewal by the most respected professor Mark Mladenovic. As soon as possible, I think we should consider this law and adopt it in the Assembly. We have objections, it is unnecessary for Professor Mark Mladenovic to present some political connotations, which he likes from the leaders, who he does not like. It's not worthy of the professor's renomé. However, this law, according to us at the SPS, needs to be found as soon as possible in the procedure and found on the agenda of this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11814	Thank you very much. National MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11815	I want to make a modest contribution to the efforts of the SPS parliamentary group, and I don't think we have a dilemma about it, all of us in this room, how important this is. There are a lot of doctors here, psychologists, people who know it a lot better than I do personally, but I really think this amendment is very important for our country, and that is why I urge both the Ministry and all MPs to try to vote on this amendment in the day of the vote. I think it's said enough by colleagues Bushetic and Rajko Baralic. I just want to remind you from this aspect of the employer that, by accepting this amendment, we're not disturbing anything. The SPS parliamentary group has tabled one amendment to a member who spoke about the length of work for a certain period of time. We were in the position that it should be a maximum of a year. Proposer of the law, the Ministry said in law that it was three years. If that's three years, then we're not jeopardizing all employers in this country, like this or like that, that this law solves this problem, and if we vote this amendment, or if the promoter accepts this, nothing will be to the detriment of the employer. There are many more people in this hall who know what it means to have a mother with a child and how important it is for this problem called the white plague in Serbia, and the employer is not at risk, because the law we are talking about provides him with the possibility that the possible absence of workers, any professional profile, could be replaced by receiving an expert or employee of a given profile for a period of up to three years. Therefore, with these reasons said by colleagues Bushetic and Baralic, I think we should all think about it together, that is, it stands in the law, although we have made an amendment to it, we are prepared to withdraw that amendment if this is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11816	Thank you. I don't understand why it's only about the mother. It's about the parent. It can be the same law. Here you go. Anyone else want a word about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 94 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Natasa Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11817	Ladies and gentlemen, the acceptance of counterpart Natasa Jovanovic's amendment would be a real contribution to the state's concern of birth in Serbia. Otherwise, every day we witness alarming articles in the press, a variety of analyses about how many years Serbia's Serbs will be a national minority, as this nation disappears due to a low-level birth rate. We are also witnessing major problems, material problems, in families with more children. We often see in the press that it is appealed to a family with two or three or four children to collect some kind of help, which is humiliating for these people. The state must be the one to take care of the greater birth rate, i.e. creating conditions for increasing the birth rate in Serbia. One way is to propose this amendment to Article 94. It's a draft labour law. It is suggested that an employed woman has the right to maternity leave until the age of two years of a child's life for a third child, and that the right to maternity leave until the age of two years of childhood also has an employed woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as an employed woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. The remaining three positions of this amendment are purely legal-technical order in case this amendment is accepted essentially. The government has rejected this amendment with an explanation - the amendment is not accepted because the Law on Financial Support for the Family with children sets out measures of population policy and stimulating the birth of children, such as a parental supplement, which is determined in a significantly higher amount for the third and fourth children, the right to a child's allowance and other measures. This is fine and, of course, this amendment does not touch the Financial Support Act of the family with children, although the law is a special story, as it applies, of how much financial protection it really is. But that's not the point. At the time when the law was on the agenda we talked about what we had to say, but I don't see why it bothers that besides this and the labour law to write what was proposed in the amendment of counterpart Natasa Jovanovic. Well, I guess it's better with all aspects and all the laws, which in any way have a touch point with this really painful topic in Serbia, as much as possible to help these families who have more children, to stimulate families to have more children, to stimulate the gods and the birth of the first child, because it's a special problem in Serbia. But it will be the subject of some other session. So, there is no valid reason, what the government said is certainly not a reason, that the MPs, since the government had no understanding, do not show understanding that this amendment is accepted and that, behold, it is the contribution of the MPs to the fight against the white plague in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11818	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11819	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, the amendment to Article 94 was submitted by Ms Natasa Jovanovic, who was asked to add new positions five and six after the fourth position. This amendment provides for the extension of a small right of employed women, in certain cases and the father of a child, by giving them the right to maternity leave until two years of life for a third child. It is also foreseen that the right to maternity leave until the age of two to live for a child also has a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. It is simply amazing that the Government did not accept this amendment, especially when it comes to the objectives that were declared when this government was elected. You may have forgotten that, but there are those of us who still have those materials. One of these declared measures and objectives of the government was to improve the population policy, i.e. an increase in the number of children born. We in the SRS believe, especially given that it is not a large number of women who give birth to three or more children, that they are mostly held on to one or two children, that more and more of those who have passed 35 years of life without being married or married, that it would be extremely important to accept such an amendment for the sake of a future. The effects of these measures will not be seen immediately over a month, two or three, so the government for this would practically not have any major spending, this would be some investment in the future, because no one plans a family from today to tomorrow, but it's something that's done in the serious states planned, which is done 10, 20 years ahead. We all know very well that Serbia is threatened by the white plague, that there are fewer and fewer children, year by year, and that we will be very quickly in big problems. An explanation by the Government, which says that the amendment is not accepted because it is not accepted for the same reasons for not accepting any previous amendment, i.e. because the Law on financial support for the family with children sets out the measures of population policy and stimulating the birth of children, such as the parental supplement, is absolutely pointless. Because we didn't ask this amendment to determine the right to a parental supplement or anything like that. This is a one-way new law, and then you don't know why the government, when we ask for one right, can it be introduced, she says no, can't, because there's another right. These are the rights that can exist in a legal system separate from each other and the justification that the state can't afford this eventually, really can't stand. Because when you say that the state can't afford to eventually fund a mother, or father a child for another year after the third child's birth, then the basic and essential question arises whether the state can afford a reduction in the number of children. So, can the state of Serbia be able to, even after the bitter experiences we have had in the past, afford to continue to reduce the number of newborn children. I don't think I appeal to all MPs, regardless of the parliamentary groups, to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11820	Thank you. According to the same amendment, MPs Milivoja Vukovic, Momir Markovic, Natasa Jovanovic, Aleksandar Djordjevic, if I understood the signs from the bench correctly. You'll agree to give the word to the author of the amendment first. Please, MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11821	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we consider Serbian radicals and therefore we warn that it is very important that you pay attention in the day to vote on this amendment, that this is one of the key amendments to the proposed labour law. We talked a lot about the social aspect during the principle debate, when it comes to the labour law and the text that needs to be fixed, if he has a good will. And it's obvious there's no such thing as Mr. Minister and the current government. This is something that would come across general approval from all Serbian citizens, given that a major debate has been taking place in Serbia for many years, due to population policy, due to birth. We are truly as a state and as a nation concerned about the low birth rate, and this law would give additional stimulant to all young women, mothers who want or can give birth to a third child, to allow them to use the maternity leave of two years. You can see the reasons given by Minister Lalovic, or the Government, for not accepting the amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group. It's just amazing, especially because this amendment has nothing to do with the reasons for which the minister was called. The minister said there was a law on financial support for the family with children, although it exists, but we sharply criticised it in the past DOS assembly when DOS was in power and we also gave the amendment to that member called on by the minister, and he says there is assistance that has been identified, or a parental supplement, in a significantly higher amount for the third and fourth children, as well as the right to a child's allowance and other measures. First, this significantly higher amount, so defined in the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, is completely deplaced now that the course of the dinar compared to the euro, or vice versa, is much higher and the nominal value is the same, and much less can be bought for the child for that amount. And then we talked and recalculated how much it was for the baby's wheelchair, how much for what it took for the newborn, for the shoes, for the clothes, but there was no hearing at the time, or now when it was talking about the length of the absence of an employed woman. Is there a rational and reasonable explanation to say that the government does not accept that a woman who has one child and has twins or has two children so that a third child or a fourth child does not leave work for two years, or does not use maternity leave. There is no excuse for such a thing and therefore it is necessary in the day of voting to pay attention to this amendment and that you decide to accept it and give these women the opportunity to use maternity leave. It is amazing that, in addition to that, and certainly hypocritically, the minister calls for the law that I mentioned earlier, financial support for the family with children, and for this only one-time assistance for the third and fourth children, without telling us what he did and what this republican government, whose Prime Minister Kostunica, did, is for the first and second children. Why is there no stimulant and why is there no concern of the state when it comes to the first and second children? Simply, you are in a position to decide whether in such a way, by your voice and by pressing the "yes" button in the voting day, to help women in Serbia, or whether you do not want it, or you agree with the minister's argument. I think that it should overcome this second argument that we are giving you here and especially because all political factors in Serbia, which will certainly do so to their SRS initiatives, should think about helping the first and second children. It is not enough that individual units of local self-government provide this one-time assistance. One-time assistance in itself is not enough to care about the state to solve this, for us and for our people, a very big problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11822	The People's Messenger Milivoje Vukovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Momir Markovic, and the People's Messenger Aleksandar Djordjevic, and the People's Messenger Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11823	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague Natasa Jovanovic has submitted an amendment to be in Article 94. The draft law behind Article 4 adds the new views of the 5th and 6th, which reads: "A woman who is employed has the right to maternity leave until two years of a child's life for a third child. The right to maternity leave until the child's age is two years old also has a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. "I think this amendment should be adopted for several reasons. Namely, the Serbian people die biologically. The situation is truly tragic. Serbs have been among rare peoples who have been downsized since the beginning of this century, while all other nations have grown significantly. It is predicted that in the fourth century, the mortality rate will be twice the birth rate; births will be increasingly rare, funerals are becoming more frequent; Serbian cities will be visited by pensioners and disabled people. Serbs will be expelled from Serbia as from Bosnia, Krajina and Kosovo. They will become a national minority in Serbia if something urgent is not done to increase the birth of children. According to the last census, there are fewer of us than in 1991, even with refugees and displaced persons. There are many singles, singles, singles. We fall into the oldest nations in the world, we have the slightest youth. He's more old than young. It's the beginning of death. Compared to their geographical environment, Serbs are in a very unfavourable position. Since the beginning of the 21st century, Balkan nations have increased to the following percentages: Turks - 400%, Romanians - 45%, Bulgarians - 38%, Albanians - 700%, Greeks - 35%, only the number of Serbs decreased by 10%. It's not just wars and it's not just an eternal genocide against the Serbian people that causes his biological death. One of the important reasons today is that only one child is born or born. It's so-called. "white plague." Therefore, concern about restoring the population is the most important task of Serbia-Montenegro, more important than any other issue. Many people wonder whether the Serbian people will survive the "white plague" or disappear in 50 to 100 years. When you analyze the current state of forecasts are bad, but if you look optimistic, the conclusion is: it's hard, but there's hope. And hope is also in this amendment, which would help many women decide to give birth to a third child, even a fourth child. This is just one of the laws that can increase birth, but we also need to take care of other essential laws that will affect birth. Otherwise, we are ill-written and afraid that in 50 to 100 years we will not be just the Serb enclave in the Balkans, and our descendants scattered across Europe, Canada, the United States, Australia, New Zealand and who knows where everything is. This is no ordinary amendment. Just like the one that applies to voluntary blood donors, this is the amendment that speaks of our survival in these areas. This amendment for us means being or not being.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11824	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11825	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remember a pre-election campaign in which this government, therefore ministers who are now in the seats of ministers, has favoured the fight against the "white plague" as one of the key points. The fact is that a respected SRS MP said the "white plague" threatens to break the Serbian nation in 10 years. There's a lot less of those who go to maternity care than those who go to the hospital. The amendment of Ms. Natasa Jovanovic's MP should be accepted. First, because it is embedded in it and much better explained this amendment, which was given by SPS MPs, because they only talk about the fourth child, and in the amendment, Ms. Natasa Jovanovic is said to be - as is the working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. So this amendment covers the fifth, sixth, and all future children. The explanation given by the government, of course, for Mr. Tom Bushetic's amendment, so he says down there that the argument is the same, although I don't see it should be the same. It says - the amendment is not accepted because the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children sets out measures of population policy and stimulating the birth of children such as the parental supplement, etc. A parenting supplement does not receive a working woman, a single mother who works as a teacher and has 15,000 salaries. The supplement is 1,500, maybe a few dollars or more per child. When we discuss family law, I'll ask the minister and what about families that adopt children, who take children into foster care. These givings are miserable and only love for the children of those people makes them take children from Zvezanska and take them out on the road. In any case, this amendment will make at least some sense to a bad law like this. That is why I propose that in the day of voting and MPs of the shortened DOS raise their hands for this amendment and that at least those who need this assistance and those who worry about Serbia and after us living help at the moment when these children are raised, born and raised on their feet, and put on the road.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11826	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The viewers have no reason to get excited, it's about the lapus, no elections have been made, no short-term DOS has a parliamentary group in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, dear Serbian citizens, the amendment to Article 94, submitted by counterpart Natasa Jovanovic on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is one of the key amendments to the draft labour law submitted by the government to the National Assembly. The issue of solving population policy and birth in one way is resolved by this Article 94. In the first position, it is said: "A woman who is employed has the right to leave because of pregnancy and childbirth (hereinafter: maternity leave), as well as the absence from work for the care of a child, for a total duration of 365 days". The second position of Article 94: "A working woman has the right to begin maternity leave based on the findings of the competent health authority at the earliest 45 days, and the obligation of 28 days before the time set for delivery. "Station 3 says: "The maternity leave lasts until three months after the day of childbirth. "The position 4 states: "A woman employed, at the end of maternity leave, has the right to leave for child care until 365 days after the date of the maternity leave of the position of the 2nd member. "Not to read further the views of the 5th and 6th members of the 94th proposed labour law. The SRS has submitted an amendment that I think the government of the Republic of Serbia should just accept. In their argument not to accept the amendment, they stated - for the reasons indicated for not accepting the amendments submitted by SPS MPs. This amendment has been submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and I think you should have granted us an adequate explanation and an answer as to why you did not accept this amendment. What you wrote in your explanation doesn't mean anything. This Article 94 is another indication that you made this law quick. You will probably, by the will of the majority in this assembly, accept and vote, and we had a goal in this article 94 to solve the issue of population policy and birth. The right to maternity leave we say that up to the age of two, there is also a working woman who has three or more children in the first birth, as well as a working woman who has one or two children and has two or more children. That's in Section 4, so I don't read all the stuff we've given in the amendment to Article 94. The essence of our amendment to Article 94 is the issue of population policy, resolving the issue of birth, and we have committed ourselves to the citizens of Serbia to make the legislative proposals we bring here for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. My colleagues who went out on this phone booth, I think they were clear on the subject of this amendment. This is one of the key amendments that solves exactly this sphere under this law, this amendment protects motherhood and an increase in birth in Serbia, exactly what my colleague who spoke before me clearly said, as Serbia's birth rate decreased by 10%. The government should run a population policy, take care of the citizens of Serbia and make proposals for legislation submitted to the National Assembly quality and address those vital issues for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. That's why we're here in the Assembly. I therefore call on all MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to support the amendments of the SRS, namely the amendment of counterpart Natasha Jovanovic to Article 94. It's a bill of law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11828	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11829	This amendment, as well as several previous ones, and above all, the one that touched the paid leave of two days for each case of voluntary blood donation, represents in the most direct way that relationship, a value relationship, a moral connection, a civilization relationship, which must exist between the social policy of this country and what is called labour legislation. That breaks two attitudes by which groups are divided. Some believe that labour legislation needs to be free of all social elements, and the other approach is that labour legislation should also look at that social component. It is these amendments concerning certain rights, which are defined here as a minimum based on work, and as regards the absence of this maternity leave in particular for this amendment, that best reflect the effort to install these elements of social policy, as a widely accepted value in society, and especially in our case when we have this data for the last few years where in Serbia, it is practically more buried than birth. In order to stop this, in order to turn this trend, to go towards a positive birth rate, in order for citizens living in this territory, the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to have a future, to have this society in a democratic way to be balanced, and not in the future of an old society, with an average age, estimated over 50 years, it is necessary to build this provision in the labour law, which, as a minimum, guarantees these rights first and thus, whatever compensation comes from public funds, should be given that certainty and that security. If these amendments which touch these rights as minimum rights, which are primarily in the function of social policy, one stable development of this society, are not accepted, then we are practically going round and round. If someone thinks that an employer shouldn't be burdened with this, because it's not in any direct relationship with work, then I have to remind you of the beginning of this debate a few days ago, that this proposal is based on the concept of work as a cost of business, and it's a purely cost of business, where there are no other social interferences. It's the wrong concept, especially in our terms. There is no excuse for getting so many brochures and books here in the National Assembly, where it points to the white plague that is ruling in Serbia. The white plague is becoming a great danger to the perspective and development of this society and this country. That's got to stop. One way is to accept these amendments. Those who feel that by increasing their rights on the basis of maternity leave, women will come into an unequal position, i.e. employers avoid the employment of women, I think they are wrong, because this is precisely the amendment that we need to express social policy, seeing the whole of society, and not be at peace with the fact of the white plague. If both the Ministry of Finance and the Government went with the same logic as the legislator of this law, if the work was a cost, and from the point of view of public finances and all social issues are a cost, then probably at the second stage, we would have another situation, if we didn't have a fund to accept social problems. If we look at this just mathematically and economically, then we're society without perspective. That is why it is necessary to adopt this amendment and to make it clear that there is a perspective, that there is a solution to these problems. There is a solution, the state should allow the functioning of this social fund concerning maternity leave in that part of the compensation, and the employer should have a high degree of safety and certainty that for a third child the maternity leave is entitled to an extended maternity leave, which is necessary in our terms in order to strengthen the child in this initial and first years of life, and the family is strengthened, and the mother is more with the child in that age where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11830	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Vukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11831	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, a Serb Radicals parliamentary group, fully supports the amendment of MP Natasa Jovanovic, and believes that this makes the rights and employees of women much more effective, but at the same time does not impose much greater obligations on the state, and achieves the incomparably greater rights of every mother in this country. Today we're talking, and I'm not the first one to say it, maybe the fifth or tenth one, that's talking about the problem we have with the white plague, which we have for economic reasons, first of all, because with us, the reasons are completely different from the ones that exist in Scandinavian countries related to natural growth, for a small rate of birth. We have people because they can't find a job, because they can't have guaranteed safety, and above all, the security of receiving has no more children, so we want to encourage both the right and the ability of parents to have three, four, five and more children. We don't have any more wealth than that. I don't know where Mr. Minister is, he has more important things to do, because he praises everywhere and says it's important that experts have big salaries in the government, and I guess he puts himself into experts. I suppose there are more important jobs than that, to listen to the objections of the MPs and to think about how mothers in Serbia will live something better. We believe that this would encourage many women in Serbia, especially those who have a basic working relationship, to have a third child as employees, to have a fourth child. On the other hand, when a mother has a third child, I guess every parent knows it, then in a different way and more than it's usual to tie to a house, and family, and children, and that child. Therefore, it takes more time and longer maternity leave than the case has been in the current legislative proposal. What the Minister is calling for and what the Government is calling for when he does not want to accept the amendment, that is, how we have the Financial Support Act, that is, the one-time assistance given is absolutely insufficient, and insufficiently stimulating and does not constitute any motivational mechanism and factor for someone who thinks, who thinks, understands, creating his family and deciding whether he wants to have a third child or not. I am absolutely sure that the state budget of this would not be significantly damaged, and never would employers be significantly damaged, and yet what kind of improvement and what kind of progress in this sense we would have achieved. I will take this opportunity and end it, as one inappropriate hack against Serbian radicals is being led in every place, and also against Tomislav Nikolic in certain media, with our parliamentary group absolutely against such a drastic increase in salaries to the MPs, as well as to ministers and all other members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We think it should have increased, and to a much smaller extent, only the salaries of officials in the Serbian Parliament, not the MPs and ministers. Also, I have to say that I don't think of it, and I can understand the criticism of the public and people with the right to be bitter, people who don't have the bread to eat, people who barely survive, of us who haven't provided them with a better life, and we're raising our own wages. No one from the SRS took part in that job. On the other hand, it doesn't occur to me that someone for a two-and-a-half-year-old daughter tells me she's a calf, because I'm a bull or a bull, or that she tells me about my son that she's a dog, because I'm a dog, so I'm a turnip or an unsceptive cattle, and in all of that, none of us have ever eaten or smelled onion. Those responsible for this, those who want such a relationship with Serbian citizens, should explain to them what they wanted to achieve. We from the SRS did not participate, nor will we participate, and I am telling you, the moment you want to get paid back, you can in the course of the day, Tomislav Nikolic will be very pleased to chair that session of the Administrative Committee and make the citizens incomparably more satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11832	The word has been made by MP Snezana Plassic, deputy head of the G17 parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11833	I would like to talk about this amendment, and above all for the reason I believe that a second opinion should be heard when this amendment is concerned, and I have a different opinion. The second reason is that for a moment I thought this was a story by system, Doctor, what it's like to be a mother, so since I have two children, I want to say that I believe that I speak for most mothers in Serbia if I say that the incentive to give birth to a third child certainly wouldn't be and can't be a longer absence from work. True, the fall of birth is a huge problem in Serbia, and it is true that this issue should be treated very seriously. I believe that this fall of birth has also contributed significantly to the huge emigration of young people from our country, who then gave birth to their offspring in some other countries, not Serbia. The cause should be treated and this should be changed in Serbia. It takes young people to have reasons to stay in Serbia and to have their children here. How are we gonna do that? How will we achieve that not only those, but also those younger people who stayed in Serbia, along with basic biological, psychological and emotional motives, have other motives to give birth to children. So they need to be provided, in any case, with economic support, they need to create a country that will be able to meet the needs of families who want to have more children. Now that's certainly not the case. So, I advocate building such an economic system that will allow us to give our children everything they need, and we will do so by making a commitment to work, not by leaving work. I advocate that mothers work after a year, no matter what child they give birth to, and contribute to the economic stability of the country by their work. I believe that women, who are able to contribute significantly to their work efficiency to this issue, would also agree with me. Also, after a year of child care, someone else can take care of it. That's what I'm saying as a psychologist. The first months are the most basic for forming a mother and child relationship. After a year, the child is able to establish emotional relationships with other people, and he is able to stay and care for others. What's important is that we need to strengthen the system of support for family and mother. So, we need to develop adequate social care for children, we need kindergartens to be better, so that 30 or 40 children are not a single teacher, but to be small groups of children, to be better organized work, to be adequate professional support for people who work with children in kindergartens. So, you need to develop complete social care for children. Then I advocate that, of course, when we talk about it, taxes are lower when it comes to children's clothes or food for children. So the complete system needs to be that way to prevent the fall of birth. I don't think we can do this absolutely by locking women in the house, depriveing society of their working efficiency and their great contribution to their work. I have to say that here, besides the economic element, it's very important and that other element, which may be introduced to a small door, which is the need for women only to be tied to the house and to raise children. Women in our society must have a much wider role than that. Of course, one of their most important roles is related to the family, but they can certainly make a full contribution, as they show in their jobs, our country's economic recovery, and thus give support and stagnation to the fall of birth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11834	National MP Alexander Vucic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11835	I'd just like to repeat a few views of the MPs of the SRS and look back at everything the lady from G17 plus took out of this pay phone. It seems to me that all the time you've been defending women from the SRS, so now women need to be emancipated and work, and we're not about women working, but we're about to put locks and locks on, so they don't come out of the house. Or, I didn't understand it very well, but it seems to me that it was your intention. I have to tell you, this has nothing to do with SRS policy. It is the right of every individual, by the Constitution guaranteed in this country, to work, whether he is a man or a woman. Both men and women are no different in that regard. Our relationship here is exactly the same, and we won't be courting anyone anymore or less. But a woman has a bigger role than a man in society, among other things, because of what you said, "Doctor, what's it like to be a mother?" I can't, and women can be mothers and they are. What should a mother who has children of four, two and a year? You say it works and doesn't get two years. How does it work? If he has a salary of 15,000 dinars, he doesn't have the right to a child's allowance, what's to support the children from? What kindergarten is that bigger kid to go to, the smaller one, and what's to do with a kid for over a year? Who's gonna watch him? So, you're asking to be guarded by at least two people, so one woman can work. Again to be incomparably more unemployment than it is today. What's the problem with staying for two years on maternity leave, until these hardest days of babies go away and then you have fewer and fewer problems than they've ever had before. What's the problem for the state? What kind of problem is that for employers? Every employer needs it and can encourage it. The way you're going, you should all just have two baby-sitters in the house and nothing else. I know what it's like. My kids are being watched by grandparents. I don't have anything from a baby sitter. What do people who don't have grandparents do? Is that what you're up for? We advocate, for God's sake, for a woman to work, and how, but that a woman can be a mother and that a woman can take care of her children, and that those children can also be looked after and anointed, if you will, for up to two and three years, and that they have everything they need from family care and mother care and, if possible, that they can, in accordance with the modest opportunities and conditions in which our country today is, we provide a better life than they have today. It's a fundamental difference between you and us, not whether a woman will work or not. There's the expert. The minister's back. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for coming. I hope you're happy with your raise. I am not to tell you right now, not to yours, not to the pay of MPs. I hope it's going to be much smaller, because I think they should make so much money. Anyway, I expect you to accept this amendment. I don't think the state is at a great loss or almost at any loss, and that all mothers, all families, will be incomparably satisfied, and all those who plan for a third child, all those who want a greater offspring than those that we have today, unfortunately, on average in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11836	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11837	I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, because I am really wondering on what basis the previous speaker has received his word, given that I have not mentioned, in any word, any of the MPs from which the MP comes, or him personally. I'd like you to answer that question, because I believe I have absolutely had the right to express my opinion of this speaker, not entering the controversy with anyone's views. I respect the attitude of every MP, reserve the right to express my views and see no reason for us to enter the controversy in any way when we disagree with each other. I haven't spoken offensively about anyone, I haven't called anyone, and I think it was absolutely an unfounded right to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11838	You've all used your right, a little tolerance, according to the Rules of Procedure. You state your views, you have the right to do so, the public will rule, and MPs will vote as they choose. And, to whom there is a great pay, I hope that all his surplus will be paid to the Fund for Kosovo. That's fair, but it's from where. (Alexander Vukic: Replica. I didn’t replicate it at all, you didn’t talk about it, other MPs spoke about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11839	I don't know what you were talking about if you didn't replicate. Just out of the blue, did it occur to you to talk about your salaries? Is there any pay on the agenda? Did you go out for a pay phone to say that - you didn't. If so, then go out to the pay phone and say, "Don't speak from the chair's seat and use that pay phone that way."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11840	What member, Mr. Wolfie?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11841	Article 100, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11842	Quote.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11843	I don't want to quote it. You have offended the dignity of the National Assembly, Mr. Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11844	Mr. Wolf, you always enjoy breaking the Rules of Procedure, and I enjoy being a tolerance to you and allowing you to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11845	Thank you very much, Mr. Angelkovic, for being tolerated. I'd like to see what intolerance looks like. Anyway, let me tell you now about the Kosovo Fund. The SRS singled out, as everyone advertised and talked about it and we kept quiet and we didn't say anything, more money than all the other political parties in Serbia combined, times three, except we gave it directly to our people at KIM, we didn't go through the government fund. So far, we've singled out four million. Don't worry, Mr. Angelkovic, to inform you, if your decision to increase wages like this remains, the Serbian Radicals will show their support and assistance to the people at risk at KIM and how to continue and show to an even greater extent how different they are from others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11846	Paja Boys, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11847	Dear colleagues and colleagues, to return to the amendment that we Serbian radicals have made, and Miss Natasa Jovanovic, invested. This debate should not be a sterile exchange of views and untouchableness in views should not be nurtured here. It takes the strength of argument to come to that truth that will be clear to our citizens who are watching us. In fact, we believe that this law protects employers and that's what we have made clear. We think that the labour law, especially when the ministry is called what it's called, should protect work and workers, and since they have that social supplement, then how it can also take care of that social moment. To return to this amendment. We absolutely believe that we should allow our women to have two years of maternity leave. We don't say it's an obligation, we don't impose as a commitment. If they said it was a woman's obligation to use two years, then the previous speaker might be right. We're just saying it opens up the possibility of women and families who want to be able to use this convenience. We're starting from a real situation, not a constructed story and a theory. You say a child of a year is mentally mature. Yes, but his immune system isn't mature. This child is often ill and most often respiratory infections. That kid, when he's sick, has to be looked after. What's the situation today in our kindergartens, how many places are there in those kindergartens? Don't talk about the villages, don't say what needs to be said, we're saying what is. The law should help make things better and easier in the current situation. The same thing you said, the economic reasons that lead to the white plague are absolutely not true. Most children are born where the poorest economic situation is, and that's the same for us. If you take the developed countries of Europe, they have a high standard, but they have a white plague. Don't give us a false argument here. Stick to what it is, knock out our views if they're not really right with arguments, not quasiarguments. Did our youngsters go abroad or not? Maybe. Why did it go away? How many are they giving birth there? Something else to tell you, come on, take America. She solved the family problem. Four kids there is a standard for family. How is it there with the work of mothers in those families where they have four children? The country that solved it, which you often swear, how she solved it, tell us, and then we can discuss it. We are absolutely in favour, and we believe that this congregation has a great responsibility to help today’s difficult economic moment for our family, to try to solve the problem of the white plague. Protalient policy can only be resolved through the entire legislative regulation, not once in a partial way. This may not contribute to the improvement of the situation, but it is a good step, a sign of goodwill, and we ask you all to appreciate this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11848	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 103rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go, Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11849	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SPS, we have tabled a colleague, Toma Busetic and I, amendment to Article 103(1). The bill, which requires Article 103(1) to "send to the employer the confirmation of the physician which contains and the time of the expected prevention to work", replaces the words "notify directly or indirectly the employer", and paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 6 are deleted, while Section 5 becomes heading 2. For practical reasons, we felt that many times it was impossible, because of the organisation of our healthcare service and how quickly and effectively all the necessary checks can be carried out, that the worker would take away the certificate he received from the doctor and thus justice his absence. We think that it is possible to notify it directly or indirectly, which is necessary for the employer to plan the absence of individual workers, and that for this confirmation, which we agree is needed, it is said that it is later to be delivered. We agree that there are a lot of abuses about sickness and all of this problem being treated by a member, that is, Chapter 8, which discusses the notification of temporary prevention for work, but we think that those people who are really sick in three days may not even be able to reach all doctors, who are asked for a proper opinion and attitude about health conditions, especially in large systems such as U.S. Steel, where people from several municipalities travel to work in U.S. Steel, and health care is achieved in the area of their municipality or their health center. We think there's a possibility that if such an amendment is not accepted, that workers who are not able to deliver the doctor's opinion so quickly can be unjustly punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11850	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you are, People's Messenger Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11851	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Vice President, Minister, our amendment refers to a notice of temporary prevention to work. It says: "Employee is obliged to provide, no later than three days after the day of the temporary prevention of work, in terms of health insurance rules, the employer with confirmation of the physician who contains and the time of expected prevention for work. "We believe that this part of the text should be deleted when it comes to the obligation of the employee to provide the employer with confirmation of the physician who contains and the time of expected prevention for work, and that it is an obligation for the employee to directly or indirectly inform the employer. We believe that this is an excess administration and that in practice there are a small number of cases where doctors betray these certificates and where employers are looking for them. What is important and important, let us take an example that someone is seriously ill, has cancer, and today in Serbia there are more and more of these, and now such an employee needs time to deliver expected prevention due to illness in confirmation of the employer. I think it's quite unsuspecting and there's no need for that, because it's much more important that all of us in the Assembly, in other state bodies, in the media, talk more about the consequences of NATO bombings on very severe consequences, because today in Serbia, almost 40% is now the number of patients suffering from the most severe diseases than cancer. However, we are witnessing that today in Serbia we are not talking about it at all. You just stick everything under the carpet. No one speaks, no media, no politicians, no journalists, BK TV Bogoljub Karic, B92, Kurir, Novosti, whether they are allowed to write anything about the NATO pact's aggression and the consequences caused by the NATO pact bombs. No one can say anything. No one can talk about the guilty. Simply all these media, and mostly politicians, just talk or write about sensations, gossip, and serious topics are not on the agenda, because it is quite obvious that their bosses do not allow to talk and write about serious topics. Their bosses are Soros, and the International Crisis Group, and Daniel Server, and who not in this world. But Serbia is in big trouble, because today in Serbia, in every place, every step is cheap demagogy, which serves nothing and leads nowhere. While we are all such, full of this cheap demagogy, we will not solve any serious problem in Serbia quickly or easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11852	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Milet Poscurica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11853	Gentlemen, the purpose of our amendment, which our parliamentary group has submitted, is to erase certain extreme formalities in attitude 6. An inaccurate formulation has been put in place, Minister plus Minister of Health, Minister of Health and Social Policy, so that the two ministries are brought together in a clear way. And what you refused, more or less, doesn't bother you very much, but there's a second recommendation relating to attitude 1, where we really thought, although you've given time to this bill, which has been laid down before, for three days, when the patient has to take the employer's confirmation and thus prove that it is indeed on sick leave, that the time, for understandable reasons, should be extended to six days. And let's delete the sentence in this attitude. So let's just not communicate that way with the employer and the patient. But I can see that you didn't accept that either, with an explanation that doesn't make sense, because the explanation you sent me refers to a previously tied member, and you heard how he was formulated. Therefore, the same justification for refusing this amendment should not stand. The essential reason why we think it's three days much is reserved, of course, for exceptional situations, not the routine ones, in which I don't even see why the doctor was given the right to return to work for routine colds, routine dyspepsiases and disturbances that are recognizable short currents, immediately betrays the evidence and that a man in three to five days, or a working week, returns to work with a tip. And not to go again, to pay for the participation again, to pay for the order again, to take that receipt there on the fifth or sixth days or the seventh day, and before that, he just came to take the confirmation and take the treatment. You know that every arrival costs, that it's unnecessary harassment for the patient himself. The way he's going to do it, we're basically not against the solutions proposed in the previous amendment, as it used to be, to make the employer sick. If he's supposed to be wearing paper, so less radical than in the previous amendment, then let him wear that paper when there's a high probability he'll be able to bring a tip, and then solve the problem. Why are these exceptional circumstances highlighted? Take a situation that's quite common - care of an in-coherently ill member of the family. There are many incoherent households, which is part of our problem of white plague, i.e., this white plague lasts longer than we think, so there are greater and more fatal consequences of our industrialization, so that really now families are faced with an in-coherent member, where children have to care for them, and at the moment of learning about their illness and opening up signs on that basis, or taking confirmation to the moment to find someone who will keep a sick person in order to take them to the employer, and imagine that's, let's say, 150-200 kilometers, how long it takes time, organization and how much money is unnecessary. If he already has to wear, and why don't he wear it in six days, even if he takes that certificate, over which, as if we've gone through the amendment, we've simply learned the variant that we have both confirmation, and that we have a clue as a special solution. In a certain way, patients are already employed, therefore potential, punished by a large refusal of their earnings, 65%, and should not be further harassed and made it difficult to communicate with the employer, and this is very important for those who work in the private sector, where they are almost waiting for some kind of catch to remove them from work and bring in other workers. The workers in the state sector today are able to release their children from work after a few months, so they receive a second quota, since the Employment Office is giving them these newly admitted from the Fund, so they're holding them for six months, and then they bring them back, and they bring others. So you're self-abuseing the laws in the part where you've been together and making those laws, so this amendment intervention, I think, would be logical and would be something between that radical previous solution and this acceptable solution of yours, although in principle both solutions are good and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11854	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 107th Amendment was submitted by MP Miljko Četrovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Miljko Četrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11855	The honourable MPs, and the provision of Article 107, concerning regulation of basic earnings, the working effect of an employee, clearly state that this bill has not met the expectations that it will be much better than the law which has done great harm to workers back three years, and which is still being applied and is in force. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I submitted an amendment to Article 1 107, in which I suggested that the words "general act" be placed instead of the words "generally" and that "and on the basis of technical and technological conditions at work be added at the end of this position". The basis or what is most important, and what this law should clearly regulate and protect workers in Serbia, in any part, are employees of small or large enterprises, is to gain employment relations, determine earnings and other labour rights. It is clear that the legislator did not want to enter into the essence and that, given the legal chaos in determining profits and paying those profits, at least, in terms of basic or minimum earnings, there is protection of workers by law. Because we didn't have a consistent implementation of collective agreements, such as their conclusion, both general and individual, without talking about a labor contract, which is the actual self-will of employers, and that workers are scolded by these contracts. The government's argument not to accept this amendment, with a call for Article 24 when it comes to the proposal to place the term "general act" instead of the term "general act", does not stand, because Article 24 has been regulated to adopt rules on the organisation and systematization of jobs, and the question arises when Article 24 of the Law does not stand for an employer who has less than 10 employees. The appeal to Article 8 of the Law, which regulates the relationship between laws, collective agreements, labour regulations and labour contracts, that it is a general act or a general concept that is passed through this law, does not stand, and therefore it is obvious that this article should stand for a "general act" instead of a "legislative act". As for the second part of the amendment, relating to technical and technological conditions at work, it is clear that Article 108, which is called upon by the Government at the time of the rejection of this second part of the amendment, does not in general speak of technical and technological conditions for increased earnings, and I believe that the Government, or the Ministry of Labour, should accept the amendment, and would not mind, because the definition of basic earnings is the basis on which the worker should receive some compensation for the jobs and work tasks he does. In this regard, I urge MPs to accept this amendment and partially correct the text of the law so that they can protect workers in Serbia, who are unprotected.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11856	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11857	With this amendment, we are practically opening up a topic called - profits, earnings and other receipts. This amendment can serve as a good reason to point to the continuity of inconsistency and lack of the concept of profit in this law. First, I would draw attention to Article 104(4) where it is said: "Employee's decision or agreement with an employee who does not comply with the position of 2nd of this article is nothing". It stands out here as a lack of debate which was conducted a few days ago on the subject of the futility of a legal act, where the minister came out and said that he was not referring to the contract, but referring to individual members. We have here to refer to something called a legal act, an individual legal act, and even a general legal act. In particular, as regards Articles 107 and this amendment, the concept of making a profit is represented here, but it is prescribed in principle, so that Article 107(1) states that profit consists of basic earnings and is determined on the basis of the conditions laid down in the Regulation. The amendment reads "general act", and then, in response, the government said, when the general act is said, it means collective contract and labour regulation, which is a surrogate if there is no collective contract, but considers that it should apply to the labour system rule. Again, when you look at the same concept of the bill, then you see that the proposer is lost in these provisions. He's completely forgotten about article 33. The draft law, so that there is item 1 point 10) of what the labour contract contains, is said: "The sum of the basic earnings and the elements for determining the working impact (means the elements on which the work effect is determined), the wages, the increased earnings and the other receipts of the employee. "From the quote these three members see that there is a confusion, that the promoter has no concept, but, if necessary, inserts everything and everything. If you are already talking about basic income and you do not want to attach yourself to certain conditions of the technical and technological process of work, then probably within the framework of basic earnings must be the standard effect. For this basic profit, something is meant as a minimum of some effect, regardless of what is calculated per working hour, etc. It's not someone who's paid for spending some time at work, but it's probably being paid for by some standard effect that was expected, planned for that basic profit. You will also see later when going to this matter of full profit, perhaps MPs did not have time at this speed to pay attention to Article 105, in which it defines what is meant by profit and it is forgotten that no severance from Article 158, which is not profit, is secondly cited. Simply, there are no co-existent solutions here, there is no logical set here, from Article 33 to Article 104 to this Article 107. We have a mess, somewhere it's determined by an individual act, somewhere it's determined by a contract, somewhere it's determined by a general act, and the basic intensity of the bill promoter is -- toss it all to the unions and employers, so let them negotiate, let them negotiate, let them work, and then finally comes the minimum profit, which can even be negotiated. It's this mess that's being introduced by this law and then, of course, someone rightly potentiates here what are employers who have five, ten, fifteen employees? What do they apply?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11858	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by the MEP, Ms Radet. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11859	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms Verica Radeta has submitted another in a series of key amendments that the SRS believes should be accepted by MPs in the voting day, as we received a negative response from the resolute minister, Mr Lalovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is about a member of 108, of whom Radeta thought carefully and carefully, of a fee for fixed earnings determined by the general act and contract of work, in case of work on the day of the holiday which is a day off. The government proposes at least 110% and Mrs Radeta 150%, or the SRS. To work nights and work on shifts, if such work is not valued in determining basic earnings, at least 26% of the base, and we suggest 35%. For overtime, the government also proposed 26% and we 35%. Why do we insist, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, that this percentage be higher? Because there is no logical explanation in the general situation in which employees are in Serbia, given how many salaries are employed, and we are doing all of this here, and this social aspect of the law is potentiated by this army of people, first of all by those who are unemployed, and especially by those who work, and their salaries are nothing, because what you gave as an explanation is wrong. You said it was not accepted because the amendment proposes the percentages that were established during the period when the increased earnings were calculated in relation to net earnings. By introducing gross earnings, these percentages were reduced, but the nominal value remained the same. The problem is that the gross profit system has encountered very negative reactions, which have been applied to employees for a long time, and they remember that it was before and come up with fantastic data, that they were entitled to both a warm meal and a regression, which is now all about gross earnings, but it's not that anymore. These are no longer those categories, wages are much less, prices are much higher, and prices of living foods and prices of energy and utility. The average salary that people in Serbia receive at all cannot satisfy the minimum for existence, even when they come under the pressure of these three counts of members of the 108th Law, i.e. that they are on overtime or working at night, during the holidays, and you yourself know that a large number of services are organized in all these days. Overtime work is also a well-known category for many employees in Serbia, usually those whose salaries are minimal. We don't understand why the government is running away from this. And you're saying that the bill lays down a minimum of the right contained in the general collective agreement, and the employer can use the general act and contract of work to determine a higher percentage. Why does the Government, or National Assembly, now accept this amendment, when the minister and government have not thought about it, not obliging the employer. It is a much better way and a much better way to help employees in Serbia. These are not much higher percentages that you should in such a way protect the employer, but workers who should use these rights and those who come to the necessary dinar for basic existence. There is no reason for such a thing, because this nominal amount of average earnings in Serbia is very, very small and, as I said at the beginning, does not satisfy half of it, not a third of the minimum for Serbia's existence today for one average family.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11860	MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11861	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, and those who remember for a little while, not to mention those who are older, remember very well that in that infamous Law of Association, this matter was regulated so that night work is paid 35% higher than daily work. In all the legal acts that have been effective so far, the percentage for night work was 35%. When I say so far, I mean by October 2000, by the time the bulldozer revolution turned everything on the tubes and began to establish new values criteria. We have little more of that social property, which in this ownership transformation will be sold, we have public enterprises that will be transformed and mainly sold, and the entire property will be the part that will be social property and the part that will be private property. When the minister, explaining this law, said that in the past law they had rocked that log, so it went to the employer's side, it seems that some bowl had gotten stuck there, not to give that log back to the worker's side and at least to raise workers' rights to a level of dignity both work and man. With this bill, where you predict 26% for night work and 26% for overtime, you literally defend the private sector employer. So, privates, those who, thanks to you, bought three-quarters of the Serbian economy, the social economy, and those who, thanks to you, will buy the rest. Normally, even in that part of the privatisation, if Mr. Labus is sick, he'll come home to him, if others are sick, and they'll come home and arrange for what money, for which small money to buy what's left. This law must protect the workers. At least enough to allow him to live as normal and as politely as possible. You, Mr. Minister, are protecting your employer, and employers are mostly private persons and employers are those who account for the minimum labour price and pay minimum contributions to the state for each job. I know many of my environments that are being paid a minimum contribution today for both social and pension and disability, etc. At least don't deny them here. Since you weren't there when I, defending one amendment, read your statement on Saturday that some of your friends, the directors reported that they were bringing in workers, or that they were forced to bring in workers from Romania and Bulgaria soon, because no one would accept us working for 20,000, ministers, asking you to go out and say -- these are enterprises, these are those institutions, these are the directors, so that people who sit at the gallery and who represent these workers immediately inform people to go to work with those friends of yours who offer 20,000 monthly earnings for work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11862	MP Alexander Djordjevic. Mr. Krasic, first I saw Mr. Djordjevic, but I don't mind, so could you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the minister is here and very well that he has come. This is one of the key amendments, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made clear to all of us in its reasoning that this law is in fact slightly different from this previous, or existing Labour Act, which was adopted by the previous authorities of the DS, or DOS. This is what the Government has given in response to why it does not accept the amendment to Article 108. The SRS, who was submitted by a colleague of the Veronica Radeta. It says so in an explanation - the amendment proposes percentages that were established during the period when the increased earnings were calculated in relation to net earnings. By introducing gross earnings, these percentages were reduced, but the nominal value remained the same. In addition, the draft law lays down a minimum of the rights contained in the general collective agreement, and the employer can, by means of a general act and a contract of work, establish a higher percentage. You got it, Minister, but you don't have to. That's the point. Our proposal to amend this article in 108 was precisely clear, the MPs of the SRS, who spoke about this amendment. In Article 108, point 1), this percentage, proposed by the Government, is replaced by a percentage of 150%, which refers to overtime for the day of the holiday, which is a day of unemployment. At point 2) the percentage of 26% is replaced by 35%. In point 3), the percentage of 26% is replaced by 35%. What is our argument, the SRS parliamentary group, that this article 108 requires maximum protection of employees' rights. Of course, the legislative proposal should protect both employers and employees, it is essential in Article 108 that it should differ significantly from the relevant member of the applicable Labour Act. In this case you have shown that this legal proposal is of course not good for employees and that it does not protect their rights maximum. Our goal was that by accepting this amendment, the government shows the will and majority of the National Assembly that you have, that you will have an understanding for all citizens in Serbia. This is an essential member of 108 when it comes to making money for the work done and the time in the work carried out. We in Article 108 want employees to be maximum protected and that is the objective of the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11864	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11865	Since we have opened this topic called profit and all that follows, Article 108 regulates the right of an employee on increased earnings, and lists three basics, which is working on the day of the holiday, working nights and shifts and for overtime. The increase in earnings is probably not a question of why it comes, and it comes because there was no regular obligation for an employee to have to work. There was an event, a case prescribed by law, when there was an obligation to work. The justification for this increase in earnings is found, if it is working at night, in special working conditions, and the need to improve the process of restoring the psychophysical abilities of the employee who, when normal time to sleep, had to work; or, when it comes to overtime, instead of eight hours worked 10, 11 hours worked, and increased spending of psychophysical abilities and it should be restored. I deliberately started with this story for the simple reason that it's forgotten about us as if it's never been a net profit system, as if there's always been a gross profit with us. Gross profit is fiction, it's a fiction from the employee's point of view, and a harsh reality from the employer's point of view, because gross earnings is actually the cost of the employer, and net earnings is what the employee received and which helps him restore his psychophysical abilities and abilities so that the next day he can get into a new cycle and a new process of work. Since gross earnings include compulsory contributions, which is what no one is objecting to, there may be room for the status issue of these contributions, but it also covers the tax. Here the tax arises as a need for the state to charge something because someone has received some funds. By receiving these funds in the proper size, he has shown what its material and economic opportunities are, and all of us, according to our material capabilities and economic conditions, finance the state, so that the state can finance those jobs that are necessary: health, education, police, military, etc. This is where the situation now arises to tax that part of the funds needed as a surplus for the restoration of psychophysical abilities. That might deserve some attention, maybe some different opinions. What we certainly need to be worried about is that we forgot about the net profit and we're talking about gross earnings. Then when you talk about percentages, then mathematically the government can be right that in fact it's 50% more than net. It's probably a mathematical match. We're going a little further by amendment and we say, it needs to increase more significantly. Why? Because there's really no need for these very working conditions or the mass need to work in these conditions. There's a large number of unemployed. The employer can hire others, however, he does not want to. He wants to make the most of the existing workforce, an existing number. Here, as a kind of warning, not as punishment for the employer, but as a warning, you can organize the process of work in a different way. If compensation is increased, or what is now called – increased earnings, if it increases, it is pressure on the employer and to increase the number of employees. Since this is coming to an end, Minister, in the second sentence of your argument, where you reject this amendment, you have written something I have been saying since the beginning. "In addition, the bill lays down a minimum of the rights contained in the general collective agreement (so what will the general collective agreement be for us if all rights are contained in this law), and the employer can, by general act and contract of work, establish a higher percentage." You will find it difficult to find an employer who will determine a higher percentage of what is going as a minimum through the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11866	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Ljiljana Nestorovic submitted to Article 111 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Here's a word from the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11867	President-in-Office, fellow Members of the People, in Article 111 The bill found that the employer and the employees could contract the payment of minimum earnings. In Article 112. The draft law determines who makes a decision on the level of minimum earnings, so it is said to be the socio-economic council and in certain cases the government. In our amendment, we have proposed to determine under which conditions minimum earnings can be paid. In other words, we wanted to specify when the basic income the employee receives can be converted to a minimum profit contract. The amendment proposed that the general collective agreement determine the conditions under which an employer and employees can contract minimum earnings. The government rejected the amendment with a reason that the labour law is based on the concept of profit bargaining and that it could happen that, until a general collective contract is concluded where these conditions would be established, it would be practically impossible to negotiate minimum earnings. This argument of the government is certainly true. However, we felt that it would be good for the law or in the general collective agreement, or in the collective agreement with the employer, to establish those conditions which, without a doubt, must be linked to the success of the employer and its financial opportunities to pay for the basic profit. In one of the earlier labour laws, not in force but in the one that was in force before 2001, the payment of minimum earnings was related to the employer's financial opportunities, the law contained another provision that was logical and fair, but unfortunately it was not possible. The law established the obligation of the employer to make up for the difference between minimum and basic earnings for the employee when conditions were obtained, so that the employees received judgments for their own benefit, which could not be carried out. We didn't want that situation with our amendment. We wanted to prevent employers who have the opportunity to pay off basic earnings from offering employees the conclusion of a minimum wage contract, because in the current conditions for such abuses the climate benefits them. Namely, they say, what there is, it's not worth anything. So, at present, human labour market offers are higher than demand. However, I must admit that we had a dilemma whether we should even submit this amendment at all, because we knew about what the government's response would be, and we knew that the government would represent the market concept of the law. So, the government has rejected our amendment. We hope, in essence, that, if the market concept is accepted by the end, the market will keep its laws of operation in balance the payout and that the abuse will not be, because every abuse at the end of the day is causing the most damage to employers. I really hope that the time will come in Serbia when the employer, unless he pays the agreed salary one, two, three months, such as in other stable countries, the company will go bankrupt, bankrupt, and the situation will not be able, as is the case here, to extend for years and decades.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11868	Anyone else on this amendment? In the meantime, just to inform the 15th session of the Education Committee, scheduled for Monday, 7 February 2005, is delayed for Wednesday, 9 February 2005, starting at 1400 hours, and will be held in the third floor hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11869	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, it is my intention to show, in favour of this debate, that this provision of Article 112 of the law is also more unfavourable than earlier solutions, in favour of the discussion of the previous speaker. In earlier solutions, there were two basic reasons when the employer had to offer a contract under changed conditions, which is a market disturbance, so he was unable to pay off the profits, and in another case, when the earlier contracted earnings, when the employment relationship was founded, became less than minimum earnings. In that case, the employer was under obligation, and the worker had the right to request that the contract be offered under changed conditions, i.e. contracts of earnings which must not be less than minimum earnings. Here we return to that question from the principle debate, regardless of the criteria and how the wording of the law is given. How do you determine that minimum profit? It is an extremely small, unsuitable existence of a family, or employee. In that part, the government must intervene if employers and employees' representatives -- trade unions are unable to agree on a profit that provides a minimum of existence. In that case, the government must intervene, making sure that the profits in the world are in the environment. I know that in practice, it often happens that, when it comes to paying minimum earnings, some employers do not read the provision of the law until the end, that the established profit cannot be less than a minimum profit. I only read the first part of the sentence. No one compares paid earnings with minimum earnings and intervenes in that part, both in the matter of profit payments and in the matter of salary payments during the temporary prevention of work, during sick leave. The most common practice is ignorance or ignorance of regulations. A large number of employers today are unable to follow regulations. The remarks are on very frequent amendments to the rules, that employers must literally read the changes daily, that they are not able to follow and are not even able to subscribe to "Official Messengers", and that they receive regular regulations that are current and which are adopted, to follow the application of the rules. There's your intervention possible when it comes to the control of employers' work. So, to equip the inspection, to give them working conditions and to allow regular tours of these errors, which are the most common result of ignorance, to be repaired and there are no large number of disputes that arise in practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11870	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11871	And with this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to that something is wrong with this profit system that is being promoted by this bill. One of these members is also a member of 111. You see, in attitude one, maybe God doesn't need to know what to object to, it's prescribed that employees have the right to a minimum profit for a standard effect and full-time, or a working time equal to full-time. Probably this formulation means that the worker who came to work during the month has full-time, the usual results at work have been achieved, guaranteed this minimum profit, which should be at the level of the minimum that allows for the restoration of psychophysical abilities. That would be some economic minimum of the price of that work. But what worries is the next attitude. It says, "If an employer and employees contract minimum earnings... "Now we have the first time to negotiate something that is legal minimum. We don't know why they would negotiate minimum earnings, so before there's a danger that this right and obligation under Article 111 can be misread, even if the minimum profit is equal to the basic earnings. If someone thinks it can be prevented by collective agreements in some other way, then I have to say they're wrong. With this amendment, the SRS wanted, above all, to point out the problem of this member and try to fix this second part a little bit, which says, if this minimum profit under Article 1 of this article is agreed, "the employer is obliged to pay the salary to the employee at the height of the decision set out in Article 113 for the month for which the payment is made". We were now going to say, "in the month in which the payment is made," that in some way there is at least a penalty for the employer who is late to pay, that he must have the amount for the current month, not the one who may have owed a few months ago. At the same time, aware of the risk that this minimum profit is determined by the decision of this socio-economic council, that it is published in the Official Messenger, etc., because this decision on minimum earnings is approximately something that the state is going through, that it is not exactly a silent observer of what is going on, but it is weak in terms of protecting employees' rights, as long as there is a danger and a disturbance that one with his rules on job systematization, as the Ministry says, can establish a basic profit that would be at a minimum profit level. We have this particular situation in practice: 60% - 70% of the earnings that are paid, they are shown as minimal, and here the problem is that someone can contract a minimum. Not to mention this Article 33rd point 10 item, which must contain the labor contract. To negotiate a legal minimum, that's, how can I tell you, from a legal point of view may be inadmissible, but it's also immoral. I guess every major profit is above minimum profit. If someone wanted to jump in on this practice, because you have companies where everyone is employed in the same school prep class that's wanted - a middle expert prepares. Why? Because the minimum profit on that preparation is some amount, so no matter what they do there may be high and higher school supplies, and may have a greater effect, etc. To give someone a chance to make a minimum profit, that's the ultimate cynicism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11872	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dusan Mrvos, together MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic and MP Zlatan Jovanovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Members of the 115th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you are, People's Messenger of the Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11873	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as I said, we of the SRS have indicated that this bill represents only one cosmetic revision of the previous 2001 law and what we believe should be said for the proposed legal solution is that this law protects employers, not workers and workers. Article 115 of this law is an example where it is easy to see and prove. I'd be free to convince the essence of our interventions with this member. The temporary leave fee for up to 30 days from work due to diseases, work-free injuries and work-related injuries is 65% of the basic earnings in the month in which prevention occurred. Our intervention was that it was 80% of the average earnings in the last three months. Since we see that a previous SPS member has been adopted, then we see that part of our intervention has been fulfilled, that it is going on average in the last three months, but remains controversial again our proposal. We believe that compensation should amount to 80% of that average profit in the last three months. We are responsible for predicting the legislator as a minimum. We think it should be 80% minimum. I'll try to convince you. Three groups of reasons. The first group of reasons is social reasons. I believe that we must all agree that we must advocate the principle of solidarity. Surely today we live in a society that can be freely called poor society. There are various estimates of how poor we are, but to come from the European Commission's humanitarian aid office, which says in June 2003 that one third of the population is relatively poor, and this measures by saying that 30 euros per capita per month is available to one third of our population. It also says that one fifth of the population is absolutely poor, where we have below 20 euros per person per month, per capita. I know the figures of our ministry that talk about 10% of the poor, some of the other parameters that it evaluated, but this is reality, and I think we should keep that in mind when we talk about these social moments. Today we have a great division in our society. Surely one who has a salary of 200,000 euros per month does not need such an intervention in the law. If we look at this social moment, the third thing we have to consider - the reduction of public spending is being imposed on us. This means that in the public sector it must come this year, and next year, there will be redundancies and extra labour, and extra people who will be supported and the wages that we have today, and for most of our population, these salaries are not satisfactory. Let's see the other reasons that stand before us. General interest in more productive work. It's said here that the population policy, the transition in our country, took the wave and that as a consequence we have the white plague. That's not what we need to talk about. An age pyramid has been deformed and a large number of maintenance personnel. If you today have low productivity and demotiveness, the big question is how will a small number of people today be able to support pensioners and others who are supported. Let's say something about a third group of reasons, that's medical reasons. The state of health of the nation knows what it is. We're in a state of chronic stress, that's not controversial. When a man is sick, he has increased expenditures. Most of the time, he's suffering from respiratory infections, and now there's an epidemic of flu in front of us. What do you have as a consequence? You have that it's a contagious disease, that you have to buy drugs that won't socially compensate you for symptomatic therapy and you have that usually more and more members of the household also suffer from these contagious diseases. What stands for a worker now as a possibility? Or to work sick, to be low-productive, to infect the environment and to make mistakes in work, say in medicine, these mistakes are often both catastrophic, or to sit at home, to heal and to suffer financially. I think that this way we need to protect health and bring the worker into such a state that he can be motivated to do as quickly and as possible, by doing exactly this separation. Not to mention when a man is sick, then a special hygienic diet regime needs... (President: colleague, time) I'm done. I just want to say this. We say - 80% is the minimum that most of the working population can provide as many normal conditions as possible for treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11874	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11875	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I came to the congregation benches, I had 32 years of work experience mostly in the economy. In those 32 years, I can't think of any legal act by which the profit for prevention was less than 80%. And in the period before Slobodan Milosevic, and in the age of Slobodan Milosevic, the 10 years you speak of, and in the period until 2001, until the adoption of this law, which Mr. Paja Momčev spoke of, was always a percentage, for prevention acquired outside work, for non-work and for disease, 80%. We know that in all the contracts that are being concluded today, the minimum labour price and 65% of the minimum labour price, and I wonder -- who is being protected by this law, what is the purpose of such a legal project, and I wonder -- will one of your logs, at least on one of these members of the law, come back, to protect at least a little bit those who are poorer and less and less have for a piece of bread. I think I am now addressing the ruling majority MPs, that in the voting day, you will press the green button and adopt this amendment, thus allowing the labour price to be paid to those who remain in the economy today, who are still working, at least a little protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11876	Thanks, buddy. The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in the terms of this article is a more unfavourable solution than before. The fee base has been reduced. We used to have a profit, now we have a basic profit, which is less than a profit in terms of how it's defined by the provisions of this law. I'll remind you of an earlier basis for determining the remuneration for the insurance company. I read from the Health Insurance Act, and so it is in the labour law, the same formulation is, so this law -- the basics of the bill are established in accordance with the law on general acts and the contract of work that the insuranceer would achieve in the month for which the salary is paid, that no temporary prevention occurred, etc. In the earlier law, it was the basis of a profit a worker would earn in the month in which the work compensation is calculated, not the average of the last three months. The profit in terms of this law is now higher than the base profit that's here. So, two basics. They kept the same percentage, but they reduced the profit base, and that's more unfavourable than an earlier solution. In the discussion in principle, we have already discussed that this fee is so small that an employee who is prevented from working for sickness and the need to heal, buy expensive drugs, go to a doctor, with such a small fee he is unable to treat or support the family he supported when he was healthy and able to work. In this part, it is necessary to support the proposal to increase the percentage to 80%. If you have already reduced the base for compensation, then you should not keep that percentage but should increase it, because it is certain and certain that the categories of workers who work under severe conditions are often sick, often sick and unable to support themselves or the family during the duration of the illness or treatment. They will either give up treatment and complicate their health conditions and reduce, or lose their ability to work to the end, or leave their family with no means to live. In that sense, I would like to say to that group of MPs who spoke so loudly that this is a much more favourable text of the law than before, to pay attention to that part, and that if it is possible to fix it, because that fee is very small. If such a text of this law is adopted he will immediately come into a situation that is not in line with the text of the Health Insurance Act. It's defined differently there. So far, those provisions have been in line. They are conditioned and intertwined, logical, not contradictory, and this text in the labour law will differ according to the basics of the Health Insurance Act. It was easier and easier for both the calculation and application of these regulations than now how the wording of this bill is offered.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11878	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 116 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become part of the draft law. Member of the 116th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11879	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, counterpart Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 116. The draft labour law, which is termed "60% of basic earnings" is replaced by the words "80% of the average earnings in the previous three months", and the words "maximum 45 working days in the calendar year" are deleted. The explanation of the SRS parliamentary group is that there has been an interruption of work, for example, without the guilt of an employee, and therefore it is necessary to allow the employee a higher amount of salary compensation for the period of termination of work. The government did not accept this amendment, and the reasoning given to the National Assembly reads: "The bill established a minimum right to make a profit on this basis and there is no legal interference for the employer to establish this fee at a higher rate. In relation to the duration of the paid leave, the proposal given in the amendment could not be accepted, as a temporary suspension of work without the employee's guilt should be limited secrecy in order to avoid abuse of this institute. "We believe that the government should have accepted this amendment of the SRS exactly the opposite of what it has stated in its explanation to the National Assembly, and therefore I would have asked all MPs to bear in mind the importance of this labour law, which is of general interest for all employees, for all citizens in Serbia, to support the SRS amendment to Article 116, precisely for the reasons that we stated in the explanation, that it needs to be protected primarily by this bill by employees, and of course that it should protect the employer, but essentially the laws should be precise, clear, and when it is put into place - what, how and why. In this case, we have stated in an explanation - we aim to ensure maximum protection of employees, i.e. in this amendment to Article 116. A bill on work submitted by the government to the National Assembly. We hope that the National Assembly in voting day will support this amendment by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11880	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11881	This member regulates the situation when work breaks down. So, not to the end, but to the termination of the employer's work, and for the termination of work, it's not the employee's fault. What could be the reason and the reason for the interruption? It could probably be a lack of raw materials, to further organize work, a lack of electricity, perhaps some hoax, and probably those economic reasons, where the employer can't organize production, but first of all, it's about reasons the employees don't feel guilty about. The employee is not the cause of the interruption. Now, you've heard what's proposed in this amendment and I'm asking a question -- well, what about the situation if this breakup lasts for more than 45 days over the year. So there's no blame for the employee again. Why does it only bind in 45 days during the calendar year? It's likely, as an explanation, that it's being used that then some other situation, economic difficulties, has come up with a surplus of employees, and in another way, it's going to be resolved. But all these situations depend primarily on the employer's will. What if the employer doesn't want to initiate that part of the process that follows, so it can be said: the launch of bankruptcy, the change of employer, or the excess employees as possible reasons, not all have to be. One of them can be, where he's used as a non-user, and this is maximum abuse, because it's only the right to compensation for 45 days in a calendar year. Or, to be even more precise, in this month for 10 days, in the next 20, in the next 15 days, and when all that is collected over the year, it's 60 and a few days. The employee has the right to compensation for only 45 days, and the employer did not initiate those other procedures that are logically going on. So what's the employee's protection? Now, in order for there to be no excessive pathetics, as we race to protect more employees' rights, we need to look back at something that is reality. I'll take an example. The World Trade Organisation decided at the end of last year to remove all barriers to textiles and concepts. Okay, we present this, as the European Union has seen through the fingers of Serbia-Montenegro, so it has made it possible to go towards EU countries without any restrictions on goods. Let it be that way, though it's not true. Now we have a situation where for the first time in the markets of the European Union, goods that no one can compete with, goods from China, Thailand, where there is an extremely low labour price and we have a concept that, taking into account all the parameters, cannot make more net earnings per working tailor, tailor, from 100 to 120 euros. So it's between 8,000 and 10,000 dinars. Market opportunities in Western Europe are such, such is competition. What's in a situation like that? The second question I want to open, it's the character of basic profit. The basic earnings are linked, first of all, to the employee who works on certain jobs and basic earnings, to the value of this work, the value of the work on one machine compared to the value of the work of the porter, the driver and second place of work, and the situation when the work is interrupted. What are the rights and protection offered to an employee who, without guilt, came into a situation of uncertainty to monitor whether that month or those days when he did not work without his own guilt will have an existence. Again, the story of gross and net earnings is being inserted here, again to misrepresent these percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11882	The word has an MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11883	I promised to point out by each amendment where it was more unfavourable than before. And in this article of law, it's more unfavourable because it's about basic income again, not profit. The same solution was in the previous law, but it was talked about profit, and a percentage and a certain number of days, and now it's about basic income. Krasic explained that the concept of basic earnings is not defined enough in the bill. In the principle debate, I tried to draw attention to the fact that our earnings and basic earnings relative to the country in the environment, compared to the EU countries, from where we prescribe regulations, are far less. I tried to open up a debate on how much this should be on certain profiles, the level of education of certain professions, professions, certain economic branches, how much one locksmith, engineer, technician, economist, accountant should have the basic income that the employer will offer him when establishing a working relationship, so when this happens, it's 60% compared to that basic income, and yet depending on the category and level of education. It will happen that the employer cannot work for some reason that is listed in this law and will receive differently, depending on the level of education. The fee will be different. In any case, you've brought everything back to that problem that can't be less than a minimum profit, which in our terms is nothing. Representatives of the Government, the Union of Employers, trade unions, etc. participated in the text of the bill. I don't know what kind of negotiating position the trade unions had, how skilled the negotiators were, but I don't think they had a good negotiating position or were not skilled negotiators in this part of the law on profit and rights regulation. In all the parts of the laws that speak about it, it is more unfavourable than the previous laws we have used or are now applicable laws. If we could define this basic income well, the bigger problem is the minimum profit, because it all comes down to this minimum profit, and we'd probably avoid this problem for those people who work with employers in very difficult working conditions, without adequate protection at work, and they're forced to accept these conditions because they have nothing to live on. We explained the reason, that much more people are looking for employment, and far fewer employers are offering employment, or who are asking to hire new workers. This is the problem of our present, our reality, our time and space, in relation to countries in the environment, i.e. organized and disciplined Western world, which has better conditions. With us, looking at the current state of economy and the rules in force, it will increasingly be a chance to look for work, and a smaller period of time when it will be able to work, so that if something more serious is not launched in the economy, conditions and environments are not created to produce a larger number of business entities, or those who offer work, we will find it difficult to get out of this difficult situation, as is present in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11884	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and before that, Minister Lalovic asked for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11885	Dear President, dear fellow MPs, I think that what I have heard so far in the debate, the amendments that have been made, that is, the objections that have been made, deserve a certain comment, and that is why I have come to the floor, to clarify some things. First of all, I would like to say that my lateness at this session today was caused by a meeting with the prime minister, where we had a meeting with JAT representatives, JAT trade unions, leadership and the entire JAT team. So, you probably know for yourself and you read in the paper that in our national company JAT there are major problems, that they are created, as they say today in the discussion of representatives of their unions, the last ten, fifteen, twenty years of talking about the process of creating problems and that they are now in an extremely difficult situation, that JAT is in an extremely difficult situation as a national company and that the government simply has to cut the situation. The government's gonna cut this off these days. That's what this conversation was about. Of course the public will be aware that we are going to cut through this situation, but I am simply giving you the information as MPs, because I think it is a very important thing for the state of Serbia, in what state JAT is, and many things are being broken, which you are talking about here today. Before I did, my colleague was talking about the general conditions that need to be met in order to get to the green branch. We need more work, more businesses, more activity, but it's a problem, for example. In JAT, the commitments that JAT has are more than the claims that JAT has and in every healthy economy, some normal economy, there would have been a bankruptcy long ago and some things would have been settled. But, well, we don't have a normal situation at all, so then we keep looking for some transitional solutions, we cut something, we patch it up, but that's how it is for now. However, I am sure that this year's Government of the Republic of Serbia will be more determined than all governments will finally enter a serious restructuring of public enterprises, primarily these eight large ones, and that one of the sick points of the Serbian economy and the Serbian society will be closed in this year and there will be no disease, at least there will be no high temperature for the whole Serbian economy. So that was why I was late for the assembly session today. I just wanted to introduce you to that, that was the reason. Now I'd like to refer to a few questions that were primarily discussed today. One of those questions, expressed through the amendments that have been tabled, is the issue of sickness, and that from two angles here today is the open question. One angle was the requirement set out in the law on the obligation to obtain a certificate and that the doctor indicate how much he assumes he will be absent, and another angle question the amount of compensation during the sick period. That was two angles compared to sick. I think it is very necessary that we all face one big problem in Serbia, and this is the problem of sick in Serbia, the problem of abuse of sickness in Serbia, the problem that we all inherited together with a single inefficient system, and we all know that here we are sitting in this room that even then we could go to sick leave whenever you want and that no doctor in Serbia, except maybe some individual case, was never responsible for letting people go to sick leave, although thank God they were healthy. Either Serbia and the Serbian people are the sickest people in the universe or we cheat a lot. There's some of those two. So let me give you an example. Instead of philosophising and bringing out some special concern about all this, namely this little bit now that these some investors came from outside, there were wonders, some of these bigger ones, we could have started to compare. Now, indeed, or the Serbian people are an extremely ill people, because for example in one of our larger companies, those who have come out and moved there in that management, abroad, and with circumstances they have the same or similar companies in other surrounding countries, means, not on the Faeroe Islands, around us somewhere, and then people can't believe, look at people for a month, two, two years, two years, and ask -- what is this about you, what about these people, because they have an average absence from work based on living between 17% and 20%, and in some countries around them, that percentage is from 6% to 8%. They're wondering, guys, what's this really about. So, what I'm saying is that we don't all pretend together and pretend in a certain way that we don't know what this is about. What we want and what needs to be done, it's to create a system where the sick will go really sick. That's the point, not to go to sick leave as it goes. We know when it's a seasonal agricultural business. Right now in companies, don't let us all pretend to be naive, all of a sudden there's a lot of sick people. So that story from that angle is not good at all -- like, we're going to protect people if we leave them with the possibility that they're still muttering and running, we're going to go out there and protect them. We don't protect them, we do so directly against them all and against all of us, because simply with that percentage of going to sick leave, and of course for the reasons I'm talking about, there's a total very bad situation in the field of labour discipline and attitude to work, and then we all have huge damage in total. Then we're talking productivity. One of my colleagues was talking about productivity. On one occasion here, I said, a few days ago when we talked about this, that we in 1989 and 1990 had a productivity of 20%, of the European fifth, that's an exact figure. What productivity does Serbia have today? Let's imagine the situation, we all know it, in companies, now it's seasonal agricultural work, let's go, we have to work, they're going to get sick. Now this is, now it is, and in such a situation to express this kind of concern, like, because there's God's need for confirmation, so in confirmation that the doctor has an assumption of how long he'll be gone. In my opinion, it is something that is directly directed against all workers of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, because it wants to maintain a system of Serbia's collapse. That's what this is really about, and I think it's something that's clear to every normal citizen in Serbia. The second angle here is about the amount of compensation and the whole story about the amount of compensation here, and the ratio of gross and net that was present here. I can fully understand that someone simply has a weakness given to the net payout system, I can fully understand that, but it's some kind of personal relationship. We were in 2001, and I would like to remind you that even before 2001 there was a formal introduction of gross earnings, even in 1992 it was supposed to be gross earnings, so it was formally introduced, it never came to life in 1992, so 10 years later we introduced gross earnings. It's not gross profit because it's someone I don't know how much it costs, it's for two simple reasons, because the whole normal world knows gross profit. If we want to be the abnormal part, no problem. Since we do not want to be abnormal most in Serbia, then we have gross earnings. But what is the gross profit function? It's very important, and that's how we reform pensions and the health system is going to get more and more gross earnings, because, as you well know, in that part outside the net, where the employer's obligation to pay is still a technical job. Why? Because we haven't reformed the pension and health systems. Now we are working on it, the government of the Republic of Serbia has formed a council on reforming the pension system. It will be reformed in the first period, the first and third pillars will be introduced, not the second pillar, and by the time you have in the Assembly here soon a law on voluntary retirement insurance, you will have this spring, in general, or we will all understand why, besides other things, it is important to move to gross earnings. Just so we understand. Now just one note. All of these pre-accounts that were made here, when they went from net to gross, are mentioned here in the answers that at the time of the transition it was calculated to be the same nominal amount in these various fees. So no one was damaged when it went from net to gross. I don't think it's correct in this respect, it's not correct in relation to the workers, not to the government, not to me, compared to the workers in Serbia, when it's just listed as a proposal -- let's increase the fee. Then we're good for the workers. There's two things I want to say about that. First of all, these fees that are being paid, they were introduced at the time, not by the thought of someone, but by the thought of it, but by something that had been present for a long time in practice, back in the '90s and before that. These are simply some relationships that were present at the time in the economy and thus are defined fees. What's done after that, it's just recalculated. So if we increase the fees, we can have a counterproduct. We're increasing fees, and we're actually working against the interests of employment, because by increasing the amount of compensation we're actually forcing the employer to avoid that kind of employment and that kind of attitude towards the worker. So you need to find a measure. What I said when I came out here on the first day -- I know that people can like it when it's said -- not 60, I want 580%, but the point is that we're responsible, and when we suggest something, we have a measure, it's not to the detriment of the ones that we're supposed to be fighting for here. One example of that to point out. It's often said here, there's been a change of base, there's a problem. What's this about? We eventually intervened in the final text of the law, you saw, so we introduced as the basis of the last three months of average earnings. Why did we bring it in? So it would be clear what the basis is. You know what the formulation was and don't waste any time now. He says, in that month, it's like he was working. What it meant, like he was doing, because you know very well in practice what it was and what the problems were. When we want to make the system and when we want to make it clear, then suddenly it's a problem and then we go back to some old solutions that were a problem. As for another topic that was particularly present, because it sounds nice when you talk, maternity leave, we have a white plague, for God's sake, we now need a labour law to make a contribution so that the Serbian people don't disappear in 30, 40, or 50 years. Of course we need to make a contribution, of course we need to do something, but we don't have to deal with this problem this way that we're dealing with here today. Why do I say that? What the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is in a number of points, several segments, creating systemic conditions to prevent the Serbian people from disappearing in perspective. In order to achieve this, starting with the Financial Support Act of the Family, and whose changes we have prepared, to provide more amounts for certain rights through other activities that we are doing, it is too serious for cheap points. One thing he said, think hard when you talk about it. Namely, when it comes to maternity leave, and two years and what's the story here, why we gave it up. Not because someone likes it or not, because there's someone less patriot or a Serb here than one of you, but because in 1996/2001. For years, when that law was in the Law on those working relationships, that law, which was then actually a serious decline in birth. So no positive effect produced that solution. If we want to repeat it, and be nice and nice to everyone, we've figured it out, because we really want to do something serious, not this way to deal with it. I'd like to stress one thing about it, here we're talking, about this whole context and about these percentages, overtime and everything else, means that it's completely understood and once again to point out, everything when it's recalculated was identically net to gross. There was no less money when it was defined, so don't play with percentages that are quite unserious in this regard. There's one more thing mentioned here, a little bit wider, so I have to comment on it. It was said at one point that some privates bought 3/4 Serbian businesses. Unfortunately, they didn't. I wish, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that 3/4 of the Serbian economy has been bought in Serbia by some private individuals to this moment. Unfortunately, we're far from that percentage, very far away. The problem of Serbia is that there were no those interested in buying 3/4 Serbian businesses. Because what remains of the Serbian economy, after buying the best part in the previous period, is something that, unfortunately, no one will buy or very few want to buy, or want to buy for one dinar of the company. Let's not give, too, 3/4 of the Serbian economy has been bought for this speaker of the type. God forbid it is, but it isn't, and where luck happens, and it's nothing negative, it's saving the Serbian economy. Go to any company and talk to ordinary workers outside politics and you'll see what they think. Just one more thing, notice, average net earnings for December, as simple as information, was 17,346 dinars, average December, statistical data. The minimum consumer basket, minimally, the sad one, but we're measuring for now, is 12,640 dinars. That serious, real consumer basket, as I call it, not minimal, is 20,745 dinars. I hope, in 2005, if it's as good as in 2004, so at the end of this year, when we meet like this, we'll at least realize that the average profit is at the level of this normal consumer basket. It will be a huge thing for Serbia, huge progress precisely for Serbia's employment. This government is working on exactly that, and in 2004 we achieved what we achieved. In 2005, only the same results if we repeat, and we will repeat if God gives happiness and health, at the end of the year we will have an equal average profit with an average right basket. It'll start to look like a normal life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11886	Thank you. You want to go now? Here you go, Natasa Jovanovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11887	Dear President, I didn't think the minister would, since he was very excited, yell and talk about something that had nothing to do with our objections, listen to me, and I would like to make another point in favour of the argument made by counterpart Nikola Todorovic, speaking of the amendment of counterpart Dr Goran Cvetanovic. As so many times as yet, there is no rational and reasonable explanation other than this written, which we do not accept, not to accept any amendments to the SRS. Always, as if he had put all the arguments under the indigo, and it is impossible for any of the representatives of the majority union to accept it, the minister is calling for some previous law or what is being treated by some other law. Many abuses occur today in the interruption of work for objective or diverse other reasons, because we are witnessing that the complaints of workers addressing SRS are mainly in those cases where the suspension of work and unjustly occurs. There are numerous cases in Kragujevac, many businesses and many employees are in this situation. We asked, or co-worker Goran Cvetanovic, that the amount of 60% of the basic earnings be replaced by the words 80% of the average earnings in the previous three months and that the words are deleted for 45 working days in the calendar year. The amendment, which the minister, or the government of which he is the proposing, is not accepted because the minimum right of remuneration on this basis is established and there is no interference for the employer to determine this fee at a higher percentage. It is a fundamental misunderstanding throughout the afternoon and the previous days between the minister and the SRS MPs, who consistently and only in this room defends the interests of workers in Serbia. What is optional for you, i.e. given to a university employer, to define through a labour contract with an employee, is for us something that you, as a legislator, or the National Assembly as the most legislative body, should commit an employer. There have been such amendments and where you say, you know, it is not accepted because it does not know the practice in the countries of the European Union. We're in the European Union now? When are we going to join the European Union? Will it be in 15, 20 or over how many years? Don't, Mr. Minister, go back to your present time and present moment. Today you were reportedly in action to solve one of the burning problems with JAT employees. First, a press conference that you can hold in the government, in the press centre, should serve you to explain to the citizens or employees of JAT what you were doing there, not the speaker of the National Assembly. When you're talking about protecting workers' rights and that you're someone else, and that you're not the failed union unionist Dragan Milovanovic, then pay attention to all the percentages. You don't want to do overtime, you don't want to work at night, you don't want to do maternity work, you don't want to cut probation, you don't want to do anything, you don't want to get an 80% percentage, you don't want to do what you want. To convince us with this empty story that you're protecting the workers. Don't, because these people who sit at the gallery and many others don't have the opportunity, or the question of whether they've ever come to Belgrade and don't know where the National Assembly is, but they know that there's a minister sitting here, an MP with a new double salary, who won't give them this percentage they're looking for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11888	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:15. Thank you. [[After break – 15,40]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please begin by establishing if we have a quorum to work with. I ask Members to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. Following an amendment to Article 116, submitted by MP Goran Cvetanovic, MP Momir Markovic came forward during the afternoon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11890	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the minister, as usual, comes out at 13,50 p.m., gives us a lecture, tells us that we are the only ones in the SRS who are fighting for the interests of the workers. However, we knew it, and the citizens of Serbia know it without his story. You tell me so much more, and yet you don't say what companies his CEOs and friends give away 20,000 dinars and they can't find anyone to hire. National MP Goran Cvetanovic submitted an amendment to Article 116. It's a bill of law. The amendment reads: In Article 116, the words "60% of basic earnings" are replaced by the words "80% of the average earnings in the previous three months" and the words "the longest 45 working days in the calendar year" to be deleted. Why? The basic profit is the minimum labour price and the minimum earnings the employee makes during the month. In addition to this basic earnings, there are other benefits that the employer is obliged to give and this together means average earnings. By adopting this amendment, employees will have at least a quarter of what this law prescribes. Instead of 60% of the basic earnings, MP Goran Cvetanovic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to pay 80% of the average earnings and to delete this 45-day decree. Why? For the simple reason that, at least in this part, and the most employees are now working in a privatised and private economy, employees are at least guilty, in fact not at all guilty because the employer did not provide work, did not provide raw materials, did not provide financial resources to accompany production and production standing. Whether it'll cost 45, 46, 47 or more days, it doesn't matter. The person who arrived at work at six o’clock in the morning is not guilty of not providing the employer with the means to work, not providing financial resources, not providing raw materials or not providing the buyer for the product being produced.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11891	Following the same amendment, MP Nikola Todorovic and MP Paja Momcilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11892	In fact, I answered the replica of the minister because in the part where we talked about the right to compensation during his stay, the minister talked about the abuse of the right to sick leave by divulging the debate to detail. You know when someone's sick. If the minister knows the terms "chosen doctor", formerly "ordinating doctor", what does a doctor who is a medical doctor, a medical committee, and who is all responsible in the chain if someone gets sick and has no basis for being sick. What does abuse of the right to sick leave mean? It's the basis for firing the labor contract. We didn't talk about these abuses, but we talked about the situation where the employee is really sick and when he needs more resources to provide medication, to get better and get back to work, and at the same time he needs to feed his family and himself, and that's not possible, because it's a small profit and such a small compensation during his illness. Anything else that is abuse of the right to sickness, we know that there are corrupt doctors and individuals who are prone to abuse of the right to sickness, but it's also sanctioned and it needs to be controlled. That's not what we were talking about. So, in order to understand the story as a whole, the minister must also know some of the provisions of the Health Insurance Act and several of the basic provisions that speak of this area, which are related to legal work. There aren't many of them. Then it'll be a lot clearer and there won't be a misunderstanding, we'll talk about one story, and he'll talk about another story entirely.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11893	The People's Messenger of Pai Boys.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11894	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, we in the SRS are making these amendments not because of our political promotion here and not that they would like some union, but because we think we have arguments that justify what we're looking for. So in Article 116, we absolutely argue that this percentage is 80%. However, what the minister here tried to explain today is very interesting and I don't think it should go without a comment. Be careful what the minister said; he said that we all know that sick is being abused and that now that we bring this down to 65% and 60% of the basic compensation in this article, it will be an educational measure that will prevent us from being abused. Such a replacement should not happen to one minister, who is the minister of labour and social protection. If there's an abuse of illness, and it certainly exists, and we know it well, I'll go on, it's probably caused by healthcare corruption. Then other instruments solve it, and no such restrictive legal provisions. So, to be clear, if you think there's an abuse, and there's a safe, here, I'm going to call a medical document. For example, it is said: "The draft reform of public health, the reduction of government debt and the cost reduction strategy". She worked at the World Bank. One of their consultants, Lindale Sayles, says this: "The great rights to sick leave and other absences are one problem in Serbian health care, in hospitals." And then he says, "That's where the low productivity and the demotivation of others comes from." But the same gentleman doesn't say, "Go legally, in the Labour Act to strike small attachments to people who are really sick, so you'll prevent it, but clearly gives the answer: "the absence of articulated goals in national health." Then as a consequence, you have inadequate use of resources. One responsible government should create an economic environment so that a worker is interested in working, and the labour law should stimulate a worker to have more use for him to come to work and avoid that illness, and small contributions that he will receive on sick leave. So don't you solve this kind of health corruption and what's used to get sick. Let it go to the state mechanisms. And as this government achieves an ambience for economic development and for work, we see well. First you destroyed all Serbian banks to the end. You gave banks to foreigners, they bought our banks, and Friday you started banks with 100% foreign capital to close because they didn't settle and deal with you. Now these banks are going to sue you at the International Court in Strasbourg, so when we lose those verdicts, then we're going to pay big damages. That's how you advocate, just in words, that we should fight for a better economic environment. There's not a word about it. And, one other example of health care, let's get him out of here. You will not give here to poor workers, and I told you that one fifth here is extremely poor, where one family member is below 20 euros per month per capita, according to the European Community office. One third is below 30 euros per capita in this country. You don't want to raise that percentage, but that's why the state is extremely careless when it comes to what it's supposed to be about. Here's an example of the vaccine and the Tollac. The Tollac has been destroyed or 250,000 vaccines for the flu should be destroyed. Why? "Torak" is an institution under government control, because for decades now, the same centrifuge that has been hacked for it. The government won't allow Tollaku, where there are two strategic studies, from the foreign experts you paid to do it, to do what the foreigners said and to create the conditions to do it normally. Now, 250,000 has been destroyed, but 160,000 foreign vaccines have been imported, for which an additional payment was due. For such spending, the government and this ministry will not speak a single word. It can, but poor workers can raise a minimum amount when they're sick and threatened, it can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11895	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11896	Ladies and gentlemen, here is another truly meaningful amendment aimed at applying this law to something useful for employees in Serbia. In view of the fact that, unfortunately, every day we have fewer employees because of the cancellations given by those from the previous government and the cancellations announced by those from the current government, it will not be a problem for employers to respect what we have predicted in the amendment. But without it, it is inappropriate what the Government has proposed in Article 116, and it refers to a profit compensation due to temporary prevention, and the government says that the employee has the right to earn at least 60% of the basic earnings, with that there can be no less than a minimum profit determined under this law, during the termination of the work that was done without guilt by the employee and that it can last for the longest 45 working days of the calendar year. If we ignore this percentage, which we think is small, then the end of this article is really inadmissible. How can we limit someone to 45 working days in a calendar year being out of work, without their own guilt, or disease? How can we tell someone how many days a year he has the right to be sick? It's normal for all employees to be happy not to use this right, but unfortunately, it happens, people get sick, they have to leave work. Then when they're away from work, you say their employer's salary is only 60%, and we've predicted 80% of our average earnings in the last three months. In the government's explanation, which did not accept this amendment, it says that 60% of the fee is set as a minimum, and says - there is no legal interference for the employer to determine this fee at a higher percentage. This explanation is really amazing and it's not the only government explanation that's at least ridiculous. How do you think some employer will give more than what's prescribed by law? They can hardly give what is prescribed by law to them, to some of the employers, let alone we leave them for the mercy of fate, and for the sick workers. It is not acceptable, and whenever I react according to such an amendment or by law to this subject, then I think of an employer like Karic, Radulovic and others from that circle of industrialists, as they called themselves, and they never saw the industry. Imagine that their employees, who persecute them in every possible and impossible way, expect them to pay more than the law allows when they get sick. You know well that in practice, unfortunately, we have a lot of examples of people being fired because they are sick, and we are not trying to protect such employees in any way by this law. The last words of Article 116 say that employees can be absent without their guilt from work for the longest 45 working days of the calendar year; it is indeed something that is amazing. The government says -- that's to avoid abuses of this institute. We all know who gives the sick, the doctors give the sick. If you have a problem with this kind of health care, then it is the problem of the resorient minister, the government; and the resolution minister had no intention of improving the situation in health care, because for no reason or reason in the course of last year, you remember that, he replaced all the directors, in order to appoint his party colleagues as directors of health institutions in Serbia. Gentlemen, if you fear such a minister and such directors and abuses in their work, that's your problem, that's another topic. Our opinion and our position on this minister and on that party, and on the government at all, you know, but I suggest that, since the government's representative did not accept this amendment, he obviously shows neither the will nor the desire to listen to the explanation of these amendments, because he is not here, he was busy in the morning, I don't know where he is now, he may have a bit of an afternoon break, but if he has no hearing, then he should have MPs, if for nothing else, then because of the pre-election promises you made during the... (President: You've exceeded your time in a minute. )......................................................................................................... Last campaign. You choose closer, if you tell the same story again, it'll be obvious to the citizens that you're lying.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11897	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 118th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Mrvos and Branislav Stevanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11898	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in front of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 118. It's a draft labour law. Namely, this is about the cost compensation where we have four items, which is the transport of 50% of public traffic is paid, which is not adequate and I believe that so far has been the practice of paying for the transportation of workers. Then, here you have well predicted that the time spent on the country's official journey, in particular point 3 -- during the official trip abroad, you have foreseen this for our ambassadors, our ministers and the rest of the budget, who travel abroad, to have foreign exchange diaries, also accommodation and nutrition for the workers on the ground. But here I have added three points - 5, 6 and 7, where point 5 speaks of a warm meal, i.e. diet at work, which workers always had; then for the regress for the vacation and 0.5% for past work for each full year of work. On this occasion I want to appeal to the ruling majority to honor these three items, because, as far as I know, our workers have always had a warm meal and a regression, and past work is paid. So I urge the unions to take direct part in the company's statutes and to necessarily adhere to these three points, which I was already talking about, means -- diet or a warm meal, regression and past work. I would address the Mr. Chairman, since the President of the Assembly is not here, and the ruling majority, to launch the initiative that it really makes no sense because of all of these events that our daily press is like this and that he calls us all and everything, and I would ask that we protect this Parliament from such insinuations, and that the Information Act that Mr. Vukic had in his time comes back. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11899	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11900	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, a colleague from the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 118. It's a draft labour law. I'll read article 118. He says this: "Employee has the right to compensate for the costs in accordance with the general act and contract of work: 1) for arrival and departure from work, at least 50% of the price of the transport ticket in public traffic; 2) during the time spent on the country's official journey; 3) during the official trip abroad, at least at the level of the specified special rules; and 4) accommodation and food for work and stay on the ground, if the employer has not provided the employee with accommodation and nutrition without compensation". The SRS, i.e. Mr Stevanović, has submitted an amendment to add new points 5, 6, and 7 to Article 118 of Article 1 behind point (4) which read as follows: 5) to diet during work; 6) to regress for the use of annual holidays; 7) 0.5% based on working time for each full year of work achieved in a working relationship. Reason: "The employer should enable the employee to exercise the right to a food allowance during work, to regress for vacation and past work. "The objective of our amendment was certainly to repair an 118th member who did not contribute to the employee. The government, in its explanation, cited here for not accepting the SRS amendment to Article 118, including the previous one, said: "It is not possible to impose additionally on the employer the obligation to pay food fees during work, the regress for the use of annual holidays and increased earnings based on past work, because these fees are already in place. "Then the explanation says this: "Article 120. The draft law lays down the possibility for the general act, i.e. the labour contract to establish the right to a food allowance in the course of work, a regression for the use of annual leave and other income, giving the employer the opportunity to regulate these incomes in particular. "It is given the opportunity, but it is not binding, and that is the essence. The reasoning we have given is in any case such as to protect the interests of the employees, and that is what is the essence of this proposal that we have submitted as an SRS parliamentary group in the form of amendments to Article 118. The draft labour law compared to what the Government proposed to the National Assembly, and Mr. Minister, in his explanation, responded to our amendments, which the government did not accept, uttered several inappropriate sentences. The point was in, I'll mention it on purpose, being sick in Serbia. He explained that the Serbian people are a very sick people, etc. I think that these are inappropriate words used for this speaker by the minister and that it is simply not appropriate to address the National Assembly, especially the citizens of Serbia. If we are talking about the bill, i.e. that he should be such that he solves the system conditions, and then the consumer basket is mentioned, so were those who were in power before; whenever they had nothing to catch up on, they talked about the consumer basket. The essence of this amendment is to fix the law as far as possible. We believe that by not accepting a large majority of the SRS amendments, you have shown that you are not worthy of authority in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11901	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11902	Gentlemen, the MPs, here recently, in one session of the Assembly, came out of one of the ruling majority's MPs and, as they explained that the profits had skyrocketed enormously since 2000, at the time of the revolution's bulldozer, he said – you were now receiving 50 marks and now you receive 200 euros; he did not normally say how many prices of basic products had jumped, necessary for each family. But what he did not say then, and what has not been said so far, is just hiding in this member of the law, and through this amendment, the SRS parliamentary group wants to remove this inadequacy and to give Serbian citizens an idea of what was going on. Namely, the net profit is what a man receives in the current account, which he receives in the envelope. The gross earnings included compensation for a warm meal, transport, regress for vacation, pension, social and disability insurance, etc. Now they've taken it all out and said -- well, that's gross profit for you. National MP Branislav Stevanovic asked, on behalf of the SRS, for a point of 5) to be inserted into the bill, for a diet during work, for a regress for the use of annual holidays and 0.5% for each year of work achieved in a working relationship. It's that past work we've all been receiving, and we knew we were receiving it. Now, and if we take it, after this law in particular, we won't know, and we probably won't take it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is obvious that this legislative project must be returned to the Ministry of Dorad, and only then come into the process, to ensure maximum protection of the rights of all employees, because this is taking away the right to past work. Here's an explanation. However, the explanation given to MP Branislav Stevanovic says - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of MP Dusan Mrvos, etc. And, in line with the amendment, Dusan Mrvosa says, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the introduction of the gross earnings system in 2001 included those incomes in most collective agreements, through salaries of government officials and public services. It goes on to say - the employer cannot be further imposed on the employer the obligation to pay food fees during work, the annual leave regress and increased earnings based on past work, so now I wonder why all of this, past the net earnings, has been made in gross earnings. It's very simple, in order to charge taxes, taxes, all the donations the state has to take, and this is not being taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11903	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11904	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, from now on, I will address only you, not the minister who is physically present here, because he is not concerned at all about all these arguments that we are giving in favour of improving the material and social position of workers, and since I will appeal to your consciousness and your conscience that in the day of voting you accept amendments submitted by Serbian radicals, I believe that by the end of the debate, you will respect this argument. Mr. Minister, when it comes to cost compensation, and MP Branislav Stevanovic, in article 118, proposed three new points, and three points mainly concern workers, those who are at a minimum of existence. They're low wages, high utility prices, electricity, clothes prices, children's shoes, food, everything. So that's the most endangered layer of our society. You won't accept those three points, and you've made yourself comfortable, both you and the Ministers of Government and all those who belong here, it's cost compensation, points 2) and point 3. Point 2) spent time on an official trip to the country, or what you love much more, you and your colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and Boris Tadic in particular, about Vuk Draskovic not to speak, that is, point 3) spent time on an official trip abroad, at least in the height of the established special regulations. So it's the high foreign exchange logs. You've provided it well for yourself, and when it comes to workers' rights, to the regression, to the percentage needed, to the diet, you say it can't, it's all regulated through gross earnings. You seem to have mixed up with someone, Mr. Minister, the MPs of the SRS. We are, to remind you, those who fight for social justice and for the better lives of workers in this country, pensioners, students, students and all those whom this government obviously doesn't think about either. Then don't give us these arguments that it's contained through the law, that is, the gross profit calculation, because we were against ending a warm meal and a regression. This way of reckoning is like a way of calculating pensions, one big delusion, and you, when you came to power, that is, Mr. Kostunica and this government, if she wanted to do what you like to say, discontinuity, often use that word, with previous DOS furniture, why didn't you change everything that the workers objected against, why they drove DOSs out of power? Why didn't you return the old reckoning, the checked and better way of calculating the profits, and stay those categories, which are food, regress, all that we're looking for through these three points in Mr. Stevanović's amendment? It means that you, as a man who in this government of the Republic of Serbia, continued the continuity of the former DOS furniture and government, are not ready to help the workers in Serbia. Tell us plainly. It may be surprising to one of the colleagues in this kind of ruling group why we are so argumentated and, indeed, it might have been done to someone for a long time, but we don't think it's a long time, or more announcements by the MPs along with the one who submitted the amendment, for such big things; I have to tell you that it was much better for you to get involved in this, that you've been through, that you've seen and that you've followed what we really want. It is amazing that you agree with what Minister Lalovic suggested, because with one of you when I speak individually, informally or any of us, you realize that we are right. The correct argument is from the first to the last article and the amendment that we have submitted. What does that mean now? You think you're going to blur our eyes through the acceptance of several amendments, such as this Arsicev, and you're going to deliberately potentiate it, because it's just one of several accepted amendments to the SRS, and now you're dragging it through and saying it on several occasions -- because the amendment to Veroljub Arsic was accepted. Think of something more original, Ministers, don't deceive us, and above all, workers and citizens. Tell them clearly - I'm not that man, I'm the same as that previous minister, that failed union union union boy Milovanovic, I'm not gonna do anything that would be better, I'm going on with old politics, I want to keep the same system. The workers won't do it, and that's why you're going through as they do, maybe much worse, and the election is getting closer. Think about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11905	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11906	It's nice that the discussion has broken down about what's called cost compensation belonging to the employee, but it's not good, and what's about the specific topics here by the legislator, by the government's representative, we hear something that's a pure replacement of thesis. It's not a problem here whether it's gross or net. Today there was no debate on whether anyone wanted to return the net earnings, but it was presented here by the government's representatives as if it were the biggest problem, as if someone wanted us to be the only country in Europe where the net profit is used, not grossly, as it is used throughout Europe. That's not the problem. It's not a problem in these percentages, not in math. If we have suggested something to increase from 65% to 80%, from something that is the basis, and there we have given some innovation to change the base, and someone here comes out and says -- it's going to be destimulating because they're going to scare employers, because they're increasing their obligations, then in terms of when the Republic of Serbia's budget, according to the media, 300 million has even more than planned, and only since June will they consider what will be done with that extra money, then to remind you that when last year the Law on Changes and Supplements of the Law on the income of the citizens of the SRS has proposed that the tax rate on earnings from 14% is reduced to 10%. So there's a space that doesn't scare employers, but that space exists on the side of the government, the Ministry of Finance, the public finances of the Republic of Serbia, which should give up a part of their income on the basis of taxes and thus create space that there is an interest in employers, but also that employees get the right compensation when it comes to what we've treated before this member. This member is interesting because the SRS here has made a different concept than the one that exists in the Bill's proposal, and when considering the amendment to Article 118 should be kept in mind and the amendment submitted to Article 120, because it still represents one continent. What confuses us must be confusing when it comes to Article 118, is the fact that the employee is supposed to have the right to compensation. So the employer is obliged to make up for his expenses. What's he charging for? For arrival and departure from work at least 50% of the cost of transporting tickets in public traffic. So it's due to make up for it. It's the cost of business, not getting into employee's earnings, but then it's as if this article wasn't written by the same man who wrote article 173. In Article 173, there is an entirely identical situation, when a worker is assigned to work elsewhere because of the need for work, which is the reason for a change in the contract of work, then 100% of these costs are recognised. What's the difference? In that he was later assigned, so the contract was amended? That's not enough reason. If someone says that a minimum is given here, and the general act of the employer and the collective bargaining system can be negotiated even more, it's a waste of false hope. In that sense, we need to interpret what we're doing with the amendments and draw attention. I deliberately did not take these other things that are mentioned in our amendment specifically, but I want to point to the illogicality of the existing solutions, in the existing bill. It's as if it's much more justified when you change your employment contract and the workers deploy to a second place up to 50 kilometers, than the one that comes to work here. It's a business cost. This does not go into profits, as does not enter the country's official travel daily, abroad and this under point 4), it is some field supplement with some new variants. We're just confirming the concept or the basic thesis that this law has no concept. This is a set of laid norms that should look like something, but when it's done, it's all in one whole it's got nothing, which allows everybody to feel free to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11907	The word is from the Prophet of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11908	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, amendment to article 118. The draft labour law provides that points 5, 6 and 7 are to be added after point 4) and that, within the framework of the cost-expension fee, the work-based food allowance, the regress for the use of annual holidays and 0.5% on the basis of the time spent on work for each full year of work achieved in the working relationship. I want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the SRS is the only party in Serbia that has a social programme and that for several days now we Serbian radicals have been trying to convince you to accept our amendments to the draft labour law, because our amendments create better conditions for employees in Serbia. In the situation where Serbia's employees are today, the few employees who are working and under the threat of new resignations by the minister, who is just leaving the government, and his colleagues from the government, Minister Dinkic, above all, are really necessary to protect at least employees who work, even if they are, until conditions are created to increase the number of employees. Of course, it will only be after some of the next elections, when Serbian radicals will take care of it. The minister said the other day that this bill, which he represents to us here, equally protects both employees and employers. I have not found in this bill a single member who is in favour of the employer. I don't know where he's from now on, as a former union minister, so much desire to help employers, especially if he was and we know he was the secretary of that famous extraprofit commission. He's got something mixed up, so today he doesn't know who he's representing, what role he's playing here, a team before he's also a MP and a minister. I guess it's not easy for him to get along in a conglomerate of all these functions or calls. The government says why it did not accept this amendment – for the reason that the introduction of the gross earnings system in 2001 included those receipts in most collective agreements, etc. There is no minister to tell us what the majority of collective agreements are, and what is the minority of collective agreements, or how many employers with employees do not have completed collective agreements. You all know there's a lot of them. I suppose the minister has specific information, so if he comes back by accident, he might tell us, if you tell him we asked him that. So, what the government is now giving us in terms of why it doesn't accept the amendment is exactly why in 2001, we've been having the same many days, maybe more, debated the present draft labour law, and then we talked about how bad the law is, and then we said that this bad law would leave about a million people out of work. We were right. Now we warn you, and this law is not much better, and this law will leave many without a job, and this law will not allow people to live from their work. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, it is not good for you to have the need to discuss at the same time a law that is very restrictive for employees, at the same time and on the same day that you have unwisely increased the salaries against which you were representatives of the SRS, and therefore it is not good that you have left here only in the cost of what your colleague Jovanovic said, fees for official travel, for official travel abroad. Official travel in the country, let's say that one of the employees may be using that category, and who uses official travel abroad, except for the state officials, director of the company, who goes abroad officially. Gentlemen, those who already have large enough salaries will be compensated for that, and the workers you constantly measure a consumer basket and you convince us that they can live with what is the average wage, this law will not put you in a better position.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11909	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. Alexander Wuccic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11910	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tried to correct and complete the draft law on the agenda with its many amendments. However, it is obvious that this does not come to an understanding of the government's representatives. Unfortunately, the most common case is with representatives of the parliamentary majority in this home. First, what we stand for is not one demagogue approach, and it is not something you can do only when you are in opposition, to tell the citizens -- here we are, we are the ones who will fulfill your wishes, all that comes to your mind, we will do it as we sit in opposition benches or while we are the largest opposition party in Serbia, but something that we think is not burdening the country or the employer. Something that cannot go to the heart of the Serbian economy's interest and something that can protect and improve the position of employees. I have to say that this norm and in principle something that we had in earlier legislation, what we offer in the amendment, it's nothing new, it's not warm water. This is something that existed in previous legislation, something that people as a kind of acquired right have already learned to have, and today we stand out something else that was meant to be, which is not so often or to the greatest extent not relevant for workers and employees in Serbia. Speaking of how it works in Serbia, I have to say that it's interesting that some of the things in article 118 about the cost of writing and related to this point 3, in which they talk about the official journey abroad, in such a way that they have abused so much that they have done the right big thief work. Let's just say, I don't know if you know this information, only in the New Sad City Assembly, the previous thieving power, the Social Democrats League, the DOS, they only had half a million euros for the cost of official travels. What's in it for the citizens of Novi Sad? Not just to listen to that hollow story about how it is because of international co-operation, etc. Nice, that could've been 10 or 15 million. What did the citizens of Novi Sad have out of 500 million? So here's the big problem with how the workers will get past work, regression and vacation. It's something we absolutely cannot accept. I've listed one amount that's huge. You can imagine how much it is in Belgrade, in some other cities, it's scary big money, no one cares. All that matters is, let's cut the workers and they don't care. There is, you know. Some of these thieves were charged, not because they were handing out bonuses to workers, as they used to accuse us, but because they were taking huge money at schools, 50 or 100 million, because they weren't doing business in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Because there was no competition for each school, but goes to the general competition, so they say for the next three years, and lists 300 schools, and then for each school comes a direct contract. Mr. Prophetovich, you must go to prison. I told you by accident, I'm talking to you because I assume you're a representative of the government and I'm going to give you a chance to come out and say something about it. I think it's fair and gentlemanly. They made a special arrangement for each one. For example, for a hall whose construction is worth up to 520 euros per square metre, they took on a fake tender of about 1,100. So with 100%, they've been implanted directly through the coat of arms of the citizens of Vojvodina and the citizens of Serbia. So there are no thieves, and I'm counting on you to root out thieving, crime and corruption, then we can give workers these rights. We cut the salaries of MPs and ministers to what we had, and then we go to give workers a little more income, or more significant cost compensation, or what they have already learned to get into their component. I think the minister should accept that, and I'm sure those who robbed, according to the bill I have, and that's where my papers, I can show you, more than 100 million and put directly in their pockets, which is why they still have to match. When we stop the theft of hundreds of millions, then I'm sure that we'll all be employees, not just elected persons, not us politicians, but officials, workers and agricultural pensioners, that we'll have a lot more for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11911	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zivodarka Dacin. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11912	Dear Vice-President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, here I am not fortunate again that Mr. Minister is in the hall, so that he may accept this amendment here, and I must appeal to all Members of Parliament to accept this amendment in the day of voting, which my colleague Bushetic and I have submitted on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. This amendment actually applies, in practice, to the cost of transporting employees to work. The law provides for it to be at least 50%, and it could be accepted in part that the employer goes to that more favourable variant, namely that the minister says that no one is defending a single employer from paying 100% of the travel expenses. However, I am sure that Mr. Minister also knows that this will not be accepted, and I am quite certain that every MP here knows that no employer will use that potential scale up to 100%, but will go to the lowest legal value of 50% travel expenses. Well, it could all be accepted if we say that the law goes to the employer's hand, and I'm not experiencing it, because I'm just not still working in some private sector, but I'm going to try to try to convince you that it would look in the vault where I work. I'm a health care worker and I've been working for 28 years at the Health Center of the Bones of Sredoje-Sljuka. The real exact data suggests that the number of employees at the "Kosta Sredoje-Šljuka" health center is 904 workers. Of which is 215 passengers, so on the route of the village-city. The total cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget for this 904 employee is 26 million dinars, and travel costs at this point, meaning, when paid 100%, are 698,400 dinars. So, what is 700,000 dinars compared to 26 million dinars needed for gross wages. Or even better, the lowest salary, as per the collective contract for the simplest work, which is the housekeeper in the working community, is 9.307,20 dinars, and the average travel costs on the village-city route are 2,000 dinars. So, the moment 50% is paid, by 1,000 dinars, we're cutting this down anyway, not enough pay for the simplest work, and then we're wondering what savings are, and what patients and all the people who address healthcare institutions are going to get this; nothing. I guarantee that these 700,000 dinars could probably save anyone in their midst at the expense of more correct consumption for the team. In saying that ten days ago, the last payment of travel expenses was for November of the month. So, the health department is two and a half months behind with travel expenses. I am really sorry that Mr. Lalovic is not here, because he should consult with his colleague, our health minister, and ask him if he will be guaranteed healthcare workers to receive 100% travel expenses. We're losing a lot of money here. We're talking about young people leaving the village, staying old. In this way, young people will never go to the country to work, because please, I remember when I started, it was a practice in our health institutions, and it's okay, so that young people from the city go to the country, to work there, and that the elderly are going back to the place of life. So, not because someone's asking to go to work, but because the village doesn't have its own staff, not doctors, not pharmacies, not professors, not librarians, and in order for one village to live, it must have all that. Who's going to go if they don't get a 100% fee of their travel expenses. Or, better yet, the second is that because of the need for service, not because of his own personal will, he goes to the country to work, so he needs it there, and in return he doesn't offer anything, because you know that there are no more personnel apartments, there's no binding and no enabling you to work without paying you these travel expenses. Or that none of the young people who are "workable" and remain in the country will ever get a job in the city and simply lose their jobs and experience some years when they can't even make a pension again. I think this is one real amendment that doesn't ask for much, just don't let it happen to us, because there have been a lot of words here about the amendment to this same member, but in the second part of the colleagues from the SRS, it's true, in 2001, a gross salary was introduced when it was explained, the 1/12 regression is paid during the month's salary and a warm meal entered that gross salary. When I was surprised that it was officially written for the local parliament of Kickinde in a report that someone in kickinda was paying off a hot meal, so I asked the official question, and it's said, we can, we have the money. I'll say, it's the City Building Directorate in kickinda. So also here, those who have good salaries, big salaries, they'll be able, the law gave them the opportunity to pay 100% travel expenses, and we in health care, in education, in culture, let's lower them to the lowest possible level, and that's 50%. The real total amount of funds in gross is really minor and nothing means crucial for either one of these areas. So I urge all MPs to pay attention to this amendment and support it in the voting day, because I think it's really meaningful.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11913	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11914	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Master Zivodarka Dacin and Toma Busetic, MPs of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to try to pay for the rights of employees, when it comes to transportation to work and work, to raise the employer to a higher level, or to obtain the obligation, based on the law, to pay for the 100% amount of transportation from work and to work. There are different experiences. When we adopted the Republic of Serbia's budget, we talked about it here. In Belgrade, all employees, practically, have the right to a free stamp. Since Serbia and what are outside Belgrade, and the rights of people in a working relationship should not depend on goodwill or budgetary opportunities for local self-government, then the law should prescribe what are the obligations of which they are. i have experiences that are positive. There are companies, mostly it can be understood that I speak dissonantly in relation to employers' views, there are employers - private workers who organize or pay their workers a 100% transport and there are state institutions that do not. It is our obligation to ensure, on equal terms, that everyone leaves and comes home from work. There are different approaches. Does someone who lives 30 kilometers in a village of one town need to force themselves to become an industrial worker, to leave agricultural production and to do something in the city that is not very good, in other people's opinion, for him. Let's let everyone take care of themselves, evaluate what they're going to do and how they're going to do things in life, and prescribe rules for everyone, so that whoever hires knows what his obligations are, what his rights are. The transport from work or to work is a good liquid that the Labour Act abolished in 2001, as it abolished other rights when it passed from the accounting system net to gross. There are enough arguments to accept this. I'm going to set an example here of a firm from Cuck. It's a paper-pack brand Diva. So he didn't get anything by buying it in robbery privatisation, he was already creating the company for 15 years. So he's got his own bus, and he drives people to work every day and home from work. He's got a cafeteria, a hot meal in three shifts, proper HTZ equipment, but he's, unfortunately, the exception, he's not the rule. She was speaking from a colleague of Zivodarka Dacin about health workers. We can also talk about educators. It used to be a practice, a proper practice, for you to send a young teacher and a young doctor as far away as possible, and when he forms his family, when his children come to school, then you draw them closer, with a solution or an apparition from the minister, to larger centres, where they can go to school in peace. It doesn't exist anymore. We don't have a country like that anymore, but we have a commitment to people who are in a working relationship, who often can't afford to afford other needs, let alone transport. Because they're not being paid for transport, practically, we're making it impossible for them to get a job. I will also appreciate an argument that may be completely contrary to what I stand for, but I must say, there are a large number of people in our country who are in a position of privilege. I've already said, I apologize to all of Belgrade's citizens, I'm really sorry, Belgrade is the capital of this country and we're all proud of it, we love it very much, but it's not normal for someone to get a Grate stamp for transportation in Belgrade every month, and someone in Cacca can't stay just 15 kilometers away from the place of residence. So there must be a uniform approach when it comes to this thing. If we had accepted this amendment, we would have made employers bound. If not, it would depend on their goodwill, of course, their economic opportunities. Also, Mrs. Dacin said, as a rule, in companies that are well-being workers, they still get means of transport, and where the wages are low, by the rule, and the low ones because the company is poor, they have no right to transport. We have one completely opposite situation of what we want to achieve. If there's a law, then he commits everything, and if there's a good will, then it's a matter of appraisal of the employer, of their management. So I ask you to support this amendment, because it makes so much sense that under equal conditions it will give everyone who is interested in the workplace a chance. Otherwise, we'll discourage some of them, who live 30 kilometers from where they should work, to compete at all. It is an argument we offer and we ask that you accept it and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11915	The word has an MP, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11916	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is about an amendment to Article 118. Let me explain. So it's a cost compensation, where the employee is said to have the right to compensation for coming and leaving work, at least 50% of the transport ticket price, a fee spent on official travel in the country and spent on official travel abroad and a field allowance. If we are realistically looking at this bill, if we are realistically looking at Article 118 ourselves, we can say that in this article we are offering some solutions that were not in the current law, first of all, I mean a field supplement. That solution did not exist, it was not an employer's obligation. Now we have this solution which is better than in the applicable law, but even this current law had a better solution when it comes to travel costs, because it recognised the 100% cost of coming and leaving workers. What is important, we think this amendment is good, because it simply needs to be recognised travel expenses. We have a large number of companies that are very difficult to operate. For example, the cable factory has 3,800 workers. It is certain that at least 2,000 workers travel. Given that the ruling majority of 2001, by passing this law, has abolished many rights, above all, a regression and a warm meal, then it is very easy for these companies to cover their travel expenses. That's why we ask the Minister and Government to accept this amendment, because that way we will cover at least this minimum rights of workers that were seized, above all, by the Labour Act in 2001. When we talk about workers' rights, employees' rights, most often the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister say there is not enough money. Given that we have a surplus in the budget, that taxes are quite large and given that there are many people in Serbia who have big money, let the minister take Karic, Kostic, and there are several hundred in Serbia, and perhaps more people who have come to big money in an easy way, so let the tax system also fill in funds and pay off the rights of all employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11917	The word is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11918	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 118, 119 and 120 are part of the laws that speak of cost compensation. The Socialists have submitted amendments to all three members of this bill. In particular, when it comes to Article 118, my colleagues, Toma Busetic, Rajko Baralic and Zivodarka Dacin, gave a whole series of arguments why the amendment should be accepted. The promoter predicted that the cost of transportation to work and from work is at least 50%. The amendment proposes that it be in general, 100%. Why? They're rightly treated here as expenses. Although it's a cost, if it's a business cost, why wouldn't the entire cost be recognised? Why would electricity, as a business cost, pay 100%? Why don't we pay it 50%? Why wouldn't official travel, which is also a cost, pay 50% instead of 100%? Simply put, it's a cost and he has to be admitted in general. Of course, the problem is something else, which we workers see as a cost. The transport is the cost, the worker isn't. The worker is a man who has his dignity, his right to work, his obligation and his responsibility to work honestly and honestly and his right to be paid and his expenses to be recognised. In this case, the employer is protected here, not protected by the worker. A few more words, not everyone is able, workers, to live around businesses. There are people who can and can't. For these reasons, they should all be put in the same position, so that those who cannot live nearby, who use transportation from work and work, would recognize that cost. There's no dilemma here. Secondly, I will state on one case why the Socialists advocate this amendment. Because the worker is not protected in this case, the employer is protected. In Belgrade's case, a huge number of workers are on their way to work in the morning, of course if in the caves and slightly worse weather conditions they even arrive at work, Belgrade Mayor increases the price of municipal services and transportation, the government is angry, so ugly, and accepts. The SPS and SRS parliamentary groups have requested a session of the City Assembly, which is not subject to the rules of procedure, with the reason that it is not the town's competent assembly. By the way, the City Assembly is competent to appoint a director of an institution that does not meet the requirements of the law. She's in charge of that. Therefore, on the one hand, the prices of municipal conditions, i.e. transport, are increasing. On the other hand, the worker is not recognised for the cost, and when he looks at who is there, he is protected by Bogdanovic and the employer, and the person who died is a worker. For these reasons, in order for workers to be protected to the full, the SPS has proposed that this amendment be adopted and we call on MPs in the voting day to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11919	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11920	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Article 118 of Article 1 provides for how much the employer will pay to the workers' travel expenses. The law provides for the employer to finance 50% of the travel expenses for coming and leaving work from the place of residence. As many companies and workers don't receive salaries for a long time, the only thing they get are transportation tickets, if it remains that the worker needs to finance 50% of the transport himself, he'll have to sell some of the property to pay for the transport, and that the employer gives him as much as I can. It is clear to me that this law protects employers, and workers' rights are minimal and even smaller than that. Companies in the past few years have not paid for the transportation of workers and have driven all workers out of the village because they were unable to pay for the expensive transport and have left the job without any compensation. This could also happen when workers are admitted, that the employer says, when he has to choose between three or four workers, he chooses the one to pay for the transport of 500 dinars without choosing the worker to pay for the transport of 2,000 dinars. Therefore, the MPs of the SPS, Mr Toma Busetic and Zivodarka Dacin, have proposed an amendment to pay workers 100% of the transport and in the voting day, I urge all MPs to support the amendment to Article 118(1). It's clear to everyone what this law is like. All workers in Serbia are against this law. I've never heard of employers loathing against this law. It means he's good for employers. It's like they told him to show up in a text like this. The union of employer Bogoljub Karic is certainly for the law. They're poor workers if their employers are all like Gods. He wouldn't have what he has today if he'd given to the workers and the state. In the end, I hope the devil always comes for himself. There's not much luck for those who got rich at the expense of the workers, at the expense of the working class. Our people say how it came, how it went. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11921	Anyone else want a word? Here you are, MP Brance Stojanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I think it has been quite a strong and clear enough argument and that most MPs agree with this argument made by SPS MPs. I'm just going to point out one more segment, which may not be mentioned. It's big systems. I'm going to mention U.S. Steel again from Smederev, and there's a lot of them, which were basically big absorbers of labor from a wider area. I have to say that in some way I am pleased that the boss in U.S. Steel, according to the information I have, pays transportation 100%, but I'm afraid that if we don't adopt the SPS amendment, there is such a situation as to reduce payments to 50% of travel costs, or that we're going to bring in travellers, because these big systems absorb people from other municipalities, in U.S. Steel, people from Belgrade, Firefighter, Great Plane, Smederjevska Palanka, Kovina, Pancheva, in a situation that they're simply not going to be able to work anymore. I think it was Mr. Rajko Baralić's well-designed work, as did Food Peric. On the other hand, there are a lot of labour in these large systems, large combinations, from the village, so I'm afraid that the government's pledge, and especially the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Ministry of Finance, who are willing to set aside a certain amount of funds or money for this rural development of the village, will not fall into contradiction and force those people who, by their belly after bread, will have to seek a solution, or leave work or maybe as tenants live in cities where they are employed, and at this stage of the development of our society and villages, we don't need that kind of thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11923	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 119 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 119th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11924	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted the amendment together to Article 119. It's a draft labour law. Let me remind you, in article 119. The draft labour law provides that the employer is obliged to pay 1) the employee’s severance allowance, at least two average earnings, and that I do not count further. We have submitted an amendment replacing the word "two" in this attitude in point 1) with the word "three". Simplifiedly, at least three average earnings are determined by the pensioner for the severance allowance. Then, we suggested adding a new position by which the employer can pay premiums for voluntary additional disability and pension insurance, collective insurance against the consequences of the accident and collective insurance for serious diseases and surgical interventions. Before I give an explanation for this amendment, I would like to say that the promoter here has gone further than it was in the 2001 law. At the time, it was an opportunity, and here it was already required that the employer be obliged to pay. We support it and welcome it, but we propose and ask for instead of two to be three. Why? Simply put, the worker is the biggest victim of transition in this past period. This has been proven by hundreds of thousands of fired workers, sold-out companies, and also by law of 2001, an employer appointed as all-powerful, and a worker as disproved, converted to number level. We think that the employer, once again protected by this proposal, certainly corresponds to this low profit situation, small severances, non-recognition of costs that are real costs, without any possibility of abuse, easy layoffs, etc. I understand that, but we are obliged to provide protection to the worker in such a situation. Now specifically, when it comes to the number. Is there a dilemma with someone that the employee, who's worked the entire working century, is a lot to get three average earnings? I mention three average earnings, so there wouldn't be a reaction gross, net, because that's not what I was doing. I used the same wording that's in the law, but instead of two, I suggested three. I think the worker deserved to be entitled to three after a lifetime of work. Of course, the possibility given in the law that the general act can predict more and we do not question it. And now, especially when a retired worker has been waiting for months to receive that first pension. We think that if the employer doesn't respond, the state has to answer, he has to take care of the worker for the rest of his life, until he retires. As for the second attitude, that is, this attitude we suggested below, I don't think I need to explain it because the government has already accepted it through Mr. Veroljub Arsic's amendment, so there's no need to explain the importance of that attitude. So, in the end, I urge all MPs to accept instead of two three average earnings as a retirement allowance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11925	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11926	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are a few more arguments why the minister should accept this SPS amendment to make severance payments at least at the rate of three average earnings. I understand that you know that retirement is actually the last step a man takes in life, and that last one is going to eternal hunting grounds and I wouldn't talk about it. The government's argument that now it's a gross profit, so that two profits are actually equal to the amount of three earnings in the previous time, which is true. At the same time, I remind you all that it is this quasi-category of gross earnings, which is now some new made-up profit, and once gross earnings were net plus taxes and contributions is equal to gross. Now we have twice gross. We have a net profit, we have a warm meal, if it's organized or compensated by the employer, and we have a regress for the vacation, so the net makes it gross, so we're grossly calculating taxes and contributions, etc. So, if we want facts, the government is right here, but when we look at the essence of two average profits today in Serbia, they mean something more than 30,000 dinars. A pensioner who gets those 30,000 dinars needs to spend them at some time from a month or two, how long he'll wait for his first pension. And yet when we look at what our pensions are, we retire with full time and full age, with about 80% of the pension base, and when we spend some time, and when the pension is adjusted according to Djelic's methods, when the cost of living is taken into account, the average growth of earnings, etc., then we come to a decrease from day to day, from month to month. We today have quite a lagging out of pensions for average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, which is also an undeniable fact. According to my knowledge, this is due to this newly invented methodology, today up to 65% of the average earnings paid in the Republic of Serbia, and it should normally be at least 80% by nature, unless we want to have a constant lag and a constant risk of pensioners entering a state of even more difficult social crisis than this is now the case. That's why I don't think it's gonna be too much of a burden for employers, 'cause not everyone retires all of a sudden. As a rule, it happens in older companies, once or twice over one or two years, and I'm sure whoever's a real employer and who wants to help a future pensioner won't even dispute that legal obligation to pay for at least three average earnings. And if he is in a better material position and if the worker has been more valuable to him and has contributed more to the company's development, then he will appreciate that he probably needs an increased amount of stimulation or as a reward for his time to pay off that future pensioner. Forty years of life in a company or in more companies, however, is not a harmless fact at all, and I think both the employer and the legislator and this home right now must do much more than so far to appreciate these people who have, fortunately, retire. What a situation many do not look forward to, but I hope that some better time will come when the severances will be just something that is symbolic and that only for the first time should help the future pensioner, not that he cooks some plans or that he should live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11927	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11928	In view of this article 119, Mr Veroljub Arsic's amendment was adopted, and practically in the second part, which concerns all these amendments submitted to Article 119, besides whether two or three of the average earnings are the amounts of the severance, in order to be clear, because of the day of the vote on these amendments, I think it is necessary to explain what this is really about. With this amendment, Mr Arsic pointed out and opened the possibility that there was a category of voluntary retirement and disability insurance in the labour law, and all other insurances accompanying collective insurance, consequences of the accident, collective insurance for serious diseases, surgical interventions, etc. Essentially, this provision applies to a whole series of laws, namely the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Insurance Act that regulates insurance companies and possibly future investment funds law; surely there is a need to change the existing Law on Income Taxes of Citizens in the part of the profit tax, and probably in that context should be kept in mind and the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance. This raises the principle of what profit is and the principle of how it will be resolved will apply to all these laws. The definition of profit is given in Article 104 and Article 105 paragraph 2 explains, so it says, under the terms of Article 1(1) of this Article, the earnings contained in taxes and contributions paid from earnings are considered. When it is said to contribute, it is mainly meant to contribute to compulsory insurance, pension and disability, health and unemployment. This amendment, which has been accepted, offers a new category of voluntary insurance, and what is being paid is called a premium and it is paid out of profit, and profit, regardless of what form it is, it is personal income, and I warn the Government that when preparing changes to all these regulations that I have stated take account of it. Why? We have a situation that if the employer pays a premium based on voluntary insurance for the NN employee, then there is no obligation to pay taxes, but if that NN citizen from that part of the profit he received through the cash register enters the voluntary insurance system, then that's where the tax is paid. It is impossible for the same category, which is a profit, which must have one legal position, to get a different legal position, before and when the employer pays and when he pays directly the employees of that fund, to be treated as a personal asset, as the property of that employee. The profit is the cost from the employer's point of view, but from the point of view of the person whose assets it is, it's always personal receiving citizens. One more thing within this article 119 which was not allowed to be in law, which is the position 2 which says - an employer can provide up to 15-year-olds with a gift for Christmas and a New Year in value to an untaxable amount. We have the Law on Income Tax. Until a certain amount, tax is not paid, and tax is paid over a certain amount. You've now made a practical ban on paying off a larger amount. Agree when writing the laws. I don't know what the Legislative Secretariat is doing, I guess it takes care of the constitutional order and the compliance of the regulations that need to be harmonised. So, Mr. Arsic's amendment, which the government has accepted, covers all these amendments to article 119 in the voluntary retirement and disability insurance work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11929	The word has an MP, Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11930	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, we propose this amendment to severance on retirement from two to three average earnings. Of course, these are symbolic means and they may not mean anything at first sight, but the future pensioners are in Serbia after October 5th, so to speak. Using the so-called so-called Swiss formulae pensioners are reduced to the brink of destruction. Today, the average pension in Serbia is 60% compared to the average salary, and all prices are based on the average salary. All of this led to, above all, that pension calculation system, the Swiss formula led to that. What does the Swiss formula mean? So a three-month adjustment with 50% wage growth and 50% cost of life. To remind us, in our time, at the time of the SPS government, pension coordination was monthly and the alignment was with salary growth, which is certainly the most favourable solution for pensioners. By applying this system, we've come to a situation where pensions have increased several times in a few years, but all the prices, life costs, have been raised ten times. The power has accumulated ten times, the communals have collected ten times and there is no way out and there is no solution without changing this law. We at the SPS will insist that as soon as possible the amendments to this law are found on the agenda, and I think it is a key matter, because we are all future pensioners, changing the Swiss formula. Pensions should be coordinated with salary and pension growth at the monthly level. Three months of compliance with 50% of the cost and salary growth will lead to the fact that pensions in the future are 30% of the average salary, and simply in these conditions none of the pensioners can survive. It's a key thing. On the other hand, when we insist on going with three average profits, we have other reasons. The simple Labour Act, which was passed in 2001, is really bad, but the even more devastating consequences were passed by a pension law that was passed in 2002, because the conditions for retirement were strengthened at 63, when it came to men, 58 years when it came to women, the conditions of the pension account were strengthened, because we now have all the time of work, 40 years of work, and we had a good solution – 10 of the most favourable years. There's no pensioner, there's no employee who didn't fit that solution until 2002. So I think that these are key issues, and I don't believe that in Serbia something special will change in some near future when it comes to increasing production, so that we can fill these funds, but until it does, our proposal is to be taken from those who have. Bogoljub Karic, Kostic and many others who have easily acquired should be properly taxed and these funds filled until production is launched.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11931	Anybody else answer for a word? Yeah. ) National MP Rajko Baralić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11932	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Representatives of the Independent Union, these days we've spoken to the union, since only this union is present here, then I just welcome him, and I have to say, without being resented, about this other one, and I don't have any particular opinion. It is a very important amendment that my colleague, Milisav Petronijevic, submitted to Article 119. It is an obligation by the SPS to advocate with each legislative project those solutions that were ready to accept at the time when it had responsibility for the collapse of power. It's perfectly normal. Retirement is an important act in every man's life who's lucky enough to get a job and welcome a pension, an age, a disability or another, and it doesn't matter if that severance is two or three earnings. Therefore, it is one-third of the adjudication on that basis which would be reduced if the proposal of Article 119 remained this way. I would also like to remind you that in earlier years, the worker who was to retire had the right to three average earnings that he himself made in the last three months while he was in labor. It was a better solution, except for those who had very low profits, so they received less than average earnings. If possible and if the state had such power, it would be ideal for those who have lower earnings than the average to receive three averages and remain their average. Of course, there is no such proposal in this law, counterpart Toma Busetic said about what is happening in the area of calculating and paying out pensions in Serbia. Large companies advocate voluntary retirement insurance, which is completely unbased on the law, or not based on the law. People take a big risk when they get into something like that. There are more pensioners in Serbia today than there are employees, and I understand those who would offer this kind of argument that it is impossible for the financial situation to endure. But I have to say that there's one principle that's abandoned by the change in the political system, so that's the principle of mutual solidarity, if someone wasn't distasteful in particular, I'd say -- the principle of mutual socialist solidarity, which characterized socialist production relations, which implies that this is precisely what, in a way that is prescribed by law, is taken and handled evenly by all those who have, and that is evenly divided by those who don't. It is the basis of every solidarity, not to endanger the survival and existence of the employers themselves and their companies, but of course it takes care of those who retire. The pension is unfortunately one of the most stable revenues in Serbia today. That's true. Pensions are received on a relatively regular basis. A large number of people receive pensions, but the act of retirement itself is very important, especially people who retire have frustration, end up with an active period of their lives. In most cases, that's the case. This contribution, which is reflected in the three average earnings, is some security, all colleagues said, and until the first pension comes and some issues that are important are resolved, which could not have been paid on a regular basis, but this amendment can only be adopted if there is political will, willingness and possibility in the government. That's what we stand for, because we think it's not impossible, we talked about it when we adopt the budget, and I want to do it again here. There are sources in Serbia that are intact. Many of them are such that millions of euros are measured. In Serbia, huge jobs continue to be done on gray, black, whatever anyone talks about. A number of people get enormously rich without being able to prove where they're from. It takes an effective state, the willingness of everyone to control all these flows, to get more funds into the budget, and when there are more funds, then it will be possible to solve these fees and everything here that is proposed by all of our amendments. We ask you to support this amendment and to provide pensioners, or pensioners, with three average incomes for severance, not two, as provided for in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11933	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11934	I'm over time and I'll give you one minute. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Toma Busetic and I, on behalf of the SPS, have submitted an amendment to Article 120. I want to read a member to make it clear to people what this is about: "The general act, i.e. the contract on work, can determine the right to: 1) jubilee reward and solidarity; 2) the remuneration for food during work; 3) the regression for the use of annual holidays and 4) other incomes. "Our amendment proposes a different solution, so instead of writing – it can be established, we propose to write – it is determined. This means that the employer undertakes to establish the rights listed from 1) to (4). And why is this important? This whole story is complementary to what we said in today's afternoon debate. We want the employer to have obligations prescribed by law, and the employees who are employed to know what their rights are when they start a working relationship. This depends solely on the goodwill of the employer himself. We advocate that these things be defined by law and that employers have this as a obligation, not as a good will. There's an argument that's different. And with that argument, we're polluting in the way we do. Also, as with the previous member, the SPS has an obligation to guarantee, in all laws in what are rights and obligations, or obligations, such a solution in the law, or such legal tools that provide workers with the level of rights they had at the time of the SAA's responsibility for the exercise of power. In these four points, many things have been contained that practically workers have become accustomed to their rights over the past few decades. The labour law, which was passed in 2001, in the largest number, abolished these rights that this entire second set, as Mr. Busetic spoke of, means, the way pensions are accounted for and everything else that arises from employers' obligations to employees. Our obligation is to try to define this in a better way and ask you to understand and support this amendment. A bid for workers, pensioners and peasants in the election campaign goes hand in hand. When the parliamentary majority is established, when the government is formed and legal projects come, then it is mostly forgotten what was said in the election campaign. It is our obligation to lead a consistent policy and to have a fundamental respect for our fellow citizens, that is, towards your voters, because in the end, when you do one in the campaign, it is perfectly normal that when you exercise power, you put what you promised into legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11935	Thank you. According to the same amendment, the word has been given by the People's Parliament of the Long-wing Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11936	Dear President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, for not being there when I explained my amendment and colleagues, Tom Bushetić, to Article 118, but I just now had the opportunity to confirm everything I said. Because it seems little to you that this Article 120, in the proposed law, is contradictory of the reasons for the refusal of amendments to MPs who insisted that the food allowance in the course of work and the regress for the use of annual holidays be installed. And the explanation for any rejection of such an amendment was that since 2001 we have a gross salary, that 1/12 regress goes into the salary monthly, that there is a warm meal there, so I was also talking about that then whoever has a good salary, so that he will be able to pay 100% travel expenses, he will be able to, despite the fact that it's built into a gross salary to pay extra regress for the annual vacation and for a warm meal, which I don't think is right. We still have this phenomenon today, and the current Labour Act has enabled some to do so, so all local public enterprises, which do very well, have a relatively small number of employees, high average incomes, besides gross wages, of course, have the opportunity to pay for both a warm meal and a regress. The question is why not make it impossible for us, let's say, for all those who work in the field of health care, in the field of education, in the area of culture, because we still have this problem, and when I listen to fellow Members, they speak from the aspect of private employers, and I always look at the position of those of us who work in state institutions, I look at health, education and culture, until they are privatised, if one day comes. So why did the proposed law leave again the possibility that those who have absolutely all benefits, and those where they do not have, for our well-known reasons, therefore, enough resources, the law allows them to come down to a minimum. Therefore, in this proposed law, not all employees are equal. I'd really like to hear that explanation, what it was. I don't mind this jubilee award, solidarity aid, and that should be understood, because we socialists have always been for this solidarity at work, but why again leave the food allowance in the course of work and the regress for the use of annual holidays, if the employer has opportunities. If so, then you should have already re-installed it in the law, so we can get it back as it was, and if not, for me would have been this Article 120 in point 2) and 3) superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11937	Anyone else by the same amendment? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11938	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, this amendment provides for the employer's obligation to pay jubilee rewards, solidarity aid, food allowance during work, a regress for the use of annual vacations. At first glance, it may seem that this amendment is not correct, given that the warm meal and the regress are already regulated through the gross salary system, but in one such situation at least a solidarity aid and a jubilee reward should be resolved. So, in that way, this income would be found in this previous Article 119, where other incomes are involved, because in this way we would also reduce solidarity aid and jubilee benefits to the employer's obligation. If we were to talk about some improvement of this law, it is in the previous article, therefore, in Article 119 which speaks of other incomes, because this solution was not intended as an employer's obligation under the applicable law. This way, if we talk about a 120th member, it remains that these obligations are fulfilled, first of all, by companies, or companies, where the founder of government, public enterprises, public services, public institutions, and when it comes to employers themselves, it is very difficult for one of them to accept this obligation. The bill says the employer can, not has to. It is particularly difficult to predict that private employers will do so. I am deeply convinced that the private employers or these obligations provided for in Article 119 will not respect, that someone is paying funeral expenses, severance fees, sickness benefits or occupational injuries. Private employers simply don't respect anything. They don't even give vacations. Their vacation takes place for ten days. Reports to mandatory social security, if anyone has high gear, it comes down to the middle gear, only to have as little obligation as possible. Even when we talk about companies that were privatized a year or two ago, there's one big difference, regardless of the rights that might be on paper. The cement factory in Popovac has an individual collective contract. There are no rights greater than the Labour Act, which was passed in 2001. The cable factory, meanwhile, has all those rights provided for by the Labour Relations Act, which was valid until 2001. When we talk about this article, we think that if it's not possible to accept a diet fee in the course of work and regression, because here it would mean an additional tax and a contribution, then at least we could predict these solutions in some other way. In Serbia, if something is missing, solidarity is largely lacking. There is no solidarity in Serbia, especially after October 5th.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11939	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 120th amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger of the Faith of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11940	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 120 provides for a general act, i.e. a contract on work to determine the right to jubilee reward and solidarity aid, food allowance during work, regress for the use of annual holidays and other receipts. On behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, counterpart Sreto Peric suggested that points 2) and 3 be deleted), which is a food allowance during work and regress for the use of annual holidays. In order to avoid confusion, I have also read what is provided for in Article 120, and what we have foreseen to be amended without the impression or, possibly, that someone does not abuse this and say that Serbian radicals are for abolishing the food allowance in the course of work and the regress for vacation. That's not true. We are in Article 118, which I have also explained here, predicting that even the food allowance in the course of work and the regress for the vacation will be expenses, which means that they will necessarily be paid by the employer. In article 120, the government said, "The general act can be established." Ladies and gentlemen, who are we leaving to determine? Do this so-called. The industrialists? Do you believe that, for example, Bogoljub Karic in his company, if he can determine the fee, that he would determine that if we didn't commit him to it by law? Of course not. They know best those who work with them. Do you expect that from, say, Radulovic from the C Market, who quits to people who have not attributed their actions to a package of his actions, to become the majority owner of the action? There are many examples of employers who are in a very incorrect relationship with their employees. Because of these and those, we want to protect employees, we want those categories, which you called social categories in early 2001, to be detained in this law. What you depicted as gross earnings certainly does not mean everything that you explained, that is, what Bozidar Djelic once explained to us, when he said that gross profit is what the worker takes home, as if someone was stupid, so he explains to him what the worker takes home. He could lose by the way, so he wouldn't bring her home. If the parliamentary majority accepts amendments to Article 118 in the voting day, then it is logical to accept the amendment to Article 120. In addition, we, in the amendment to Article 120, provided that the general act can establish means to prevent disability. This is what the legislator apparently forgot, consciously or unconsciously. There's no word on that kind of fee in this law at all. I just want to say more, what you've predicted is that this diet fee and the annual vacation regress can be established, for the sake of the public, I'm saying that this is just a waste of dust in the eyes of employees, because you, ministers, are going to go out on TV and say, by law, we said that the employer can determine the right to eat in the course of work and regress for the use of vacations, but what we can do if the employer didn't listen to us. For this reason, we believe that this should not be left at the will of employers, but rather to accept the amendment of the SRS, first and foremost the amendment to Article 118, and then, as a consequence, this amendment to Article 120. It's a draft labour law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11941	Mr. Djordjevic, go ahead and then the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11942	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, in the presentation of counterpart Vjerica Radeta, SRS MPs, have mostly been presented on the occasion of article 120 and the amendment to article 120, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, which is our MP, Sreto Peric. In Article 120, point 1 is replaced by the following: 2) and (3) are deleted, point 4 becomes point 2) and point 3 is added which reads as "hazard prevention funds". In the explanation that we gave in the amendment, we stated that eradicating is the point. 2) and 3) as a consequence of the amendment to Article 118. It's a bill of law. Article 118. The bill, which I was also talking about here, is closely linked to members 119 and 120, because it regulates this part of the law on the compensation of employees. In Article 120. The bill, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, states: "The general act, i.e. the labour contract, can determine the right to: 1) Jubilee Prize and Solidarity Assistance; 2) the food allowance during work; 3) the regress for the use of annual holidays and 4 other incomes". The key word that needs to be changed here is in attitude 1, where you say "can"; it can, and it doesn't have to. I just emphasized that when I explained our explanation of why we submitted the amendment to Article 118. It's a draft labour law. The government's response is quite unsurpassed, that the SRS amendment is not accepted in the same way as Article 118. And when you gave an explanation to our amendment to amend Article 118. The bill, you referred to Article 120, where this part is regulated. It is not regulated in Article 120, it is said only – the right can be established, but it does not have to, that is, the essence. This is the essence of why we disagree with this explanation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the world of work has earned a fairer law, which is still far from how relations between the world of labour and the world of capital are arranged in Europe. That is the essence of what we have proposed with this amendment to the National Assembly. We had a goal, and we tried to protect employees' rights, above all, and Serbian citizens. That's how employers' interests are protected. This role of us as MPs and the National Assembly is to pass quality laws, which will primarily protect the interests of employees and employers, i.e. the state, of all citizens of Serbia. You can't protect employees' interests in this way, if one of these laws is passed that isn't quality. When it comes to labour law, Article 120 clearly shows how it was done, in a way that would not regulate this area, where the employer favors employees. We are precisely this amendment to Article 120. The draft labour law pointed to all the disasters of lawmaking in this assembly and we believe that if you do not accept the SRS amendment to Article 120, you will show that you are the same as your predecessors, who were with you for a time in power, then led the state to the harm of citizens and all employees and worked against the interests of their own state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11943	Thank you. The word has Minister Lalovic. Before that I ask, does anyone else want an amendment to Article 120? No, I don't. Here you go, Mr. Lalovich. Since we will conclude today's meeting after the Minister's presentation, tomorrow's session will begin with the amendment to Article 125.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11944	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, at the end of this working day, I'd like to say a few things that I think are important. First, let's clarify what the law says now, what it says in the new text, because it's sometimes mistaken, and it's not read. The best example is this story about the price of transport that was present, where it is said that the solution to determine by law at least 50% of the price of the transport ticket is not good, that it takes 100% or I don't know how much. Two things matter. There's no size in the current law. It is only said that transport costs are determined by a general act, i.e. a contract on labour. It could be 10% and 5%. What we did, given the overall Serbian economy, we said that each employer must pay at least 50% of the cost of transport. Whether it's 60, 80, 100 or 150% is the thing that depends on how unions and employees through collective agreements and relationship with the employer will further regulate relations. What is present here is a misunderstanding, because of the citizens of Serbia, I must say, there is no understanding of the elemental point in most of the objections being made. It's the law that wants everything to be settled. It is completely forgotten that in market conditions law enforcement is regulated, on the one hand, minimum rights, minimum relations, and on the other hand a framework in which everything is rejected. It's simple, for those who comment on this kind of thing, the word "can" bothers you. They're used to the word "must." The whole difference between this concept of the government's bill and the other one that is mentioned is that there is a consciousness that requires everything to be regulated on the principle of "must", that there is a part that needs to be regulated on the principle of "must" in the law, and we leave a part of the space, freedom, that social partners and social entities agree on conditions of submission. In this regard, it is indeed two uncompromising concepts. One of our governments, a European concept, and one concept from the past, in which, I'm sure, no matter what the effort, we'll never return. Indeed, it is an insurmountable conceptal difference between the government's proposal and this criticism that is heard, where this may be even clearer, most clearly, and I would say the most devastating. As we discuss it - yes or yes, it may look like an academic discussion, but then we come to a dangerous field of irresponsibility. That's what we've been listening to all day today -- the proposal is that certain fees provided for in the law should be increased. The people were concerned -- from 60 to 80, from 70 to 90, etc. Why is this dangerous, and why will this majority in the congregation prevent such a thing? Because it is completely irresponsible to bid certain amounts to seriously increase the cost of production and employers, which, in the most serious way, threatens or significantly prevents investment in the Serbian economy. The one who does this works most directly against the interests and employees of Serbia, and even more so against the interests of the unemployed in Serbia. He who makes investment difficult in the Serbian economy is most directly working against the interests of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens. Indeed, there is an absolutely insurmountable gap between the policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and a policy that can be understood from the good part of the amendments that we have heard here today. On the one hand, we have a responsible policy, where we measure how much cost can be incurred, how much cost will not prevent investment in Serbia, how much cost will not close the future for Serbia, and on the other hand we have irresponsible bids on numbers that are not binding on anyone or anyone. The only consequence, if a miracle were to occur, so that the concept might eventually change the relationship in Serbia one day in this sphere, would be that Serbia would close for investment, and then I would ask those who have talked here today about the interests of employees and workers, what would actually happen to Serbia's employment if it stopped and blocked investment in Serbia. It is a fundamental, principled difference, and at every point in this law, when it comes to fees, you can see that difference, you can see there's no agreement about it, there's no middle solution. Either we open the door to Serbia's future with a responsible policy and responsible legal solutions, or we will because of the so-called. To like the citizens for a moment, that tonight someone who looks and isn't informed says -- look, see how they take care of me, they want us to get more. What's more today, tomorrow is much less and it lasts 15, 20 or more years. I am sure that the majority in the Serbian Parliament know what this is about and that these demagogue attempts will not certainly succeed. There is another topic here that is interestingly marked about the labour law, and it is related to the reform of the pension system. Soon, the Serbian Parliament will have a proposal for reforming Serbia's pension system, which will allow people in Serbia to receive pensions in the future not from the budget, but from what they have singled out, not as a social, but as what they have set out for the future. And this is the link that connects the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is completely and fully responsible, and which is a strong, social policy, at the same time and a strong policy, and a European-oriented one, which accepts in this regard all the values that we need to bring into Serbia. Not because they are European values, but because they are good, they are quality. Everything we have foreseen in the labour law as new solutions, so these are European experiences and are all good for Serbia's employment. I wish we could bring more of these experiences in here. So, I expect that in the follow-up debate and those who propose amendments will be more responsible, will stop bidding, and give people a little bit more serious. It's a tough situation. Don't play for cheap political points, hold on or try to keep some of Serbia's citizens in error without them being the biggest victims and the delusions in which you hold them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-07-0.u11945	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we will proceed at 10.00 p.m. tomorrow, as the time is up. We will proceed with the amendment to Article 125. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 85 MPs are present in the hall and that there is therefore a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vesna Obradović, Milorad Belic and Dejan Rajcic (before noon). We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF THE RAD (single) To Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament Dusan Mrvoš. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 125th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zoran Angelkovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
