ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18285	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Democratic Party's parliamentary group has advertised a violation of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the previous session of this session, before the President of the Republic of Parliament set a break. She has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 104, which, I quote, says MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In violation of Article 140, referring to him, the president of parliament severely violated the dignity of this parliament and the MPs of the Republic of Serbia. I quote, Article 140 of point 4 reads: "From the completion of the principled search to the opening of the draft law, it must be at least 24 hours. "I will remind you – following the end of the principle debate, the president has scheduled a session to continue on the debate in detail for the next day at 10 in the morning. After establishing the quorum, he set a break of up to 15 hours and 6 minutes to obtain conditions for continuing the debate of the law in particular. What was the state of parliament? To what extent the Republican congregation was in that period, we have not received an answer to this day. Invoking Article 98(2), I quote, "the President of the National Assembly may set a break in the work of the National Assembly to carry out the necessary consultations or to obtain an opinion". Today, the president continued the parliament's meeting and gave no explanation to any of us, which is why the previous session of parliament was interrupted. We didn't get an answer to who he was asking for an opinion. We didn't get an answer to that or if he got an opinion. It is unclear how an opinion can be sought in interpreting the Rules of Procedure when the Rules of Procedure, which is in force today, adopted the assembly of this parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the key word that characterizes the work of this House is haughtiness. Behavior in conduct, haughtiness in application of regulations, haughtiness in the chairmanship of the assembly. In this way, three members of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, which we have recently adopted. In this way, who knows which way, the dignity of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia has been threatened, the dignity of the MPs is at stake. Casualty is a feature that we meet daily in the work of ministries, ministers and the government of the Republic of Serbia. Casualty is a key point both in terms of the oil industry of Serbia and the proposal to abolish the NIS law that we are talking about today. This law is, I'll remind you, put in an emergency procedure... (President: Time. I've quoted it, Mr. President, so it doesn't count in time. (President: I've figured out that time. Be nice, finish up. ) This law is put on the agenda with a very impressive explanation, and then a month after that, it takes a break and assumes annual vacations and purchased airline tickets such an important topic that we need to discuss today. The oil industry of Serbia is a key public enterprise of the Republic of Serbia. The topic we are talking about, NIS, is one of the most important topics at this time in Serbia, and we have been waiting for more than a month for the work of this Parliament to continue, with violations of the rules, with violation of dignity, with boastful conduct, I repeat again, according to MPs, the Republic Assembly and the people of Serbia. Mr. President, referring to dignity, honor, honesty, this is another set of reasons why you would have to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18286	Thank you. I'm obliged to give an explanation, although I suppose it's clear to everyone that dignity defends itself by writing. So, I expect all MPs, because they are getting paid in this House, read what I just read about Mr Petrovic's amendment, which is that the government proposes that this amendment be rejected. The government's opinion was sent and you all got it, on that amendment, on August 18th this year. Just by protecting parliament, the president did not allow the 23rd debate on details to continue, which was of course not scheduled for the 23rd at 10.00 hours, but was scheduled to resume the session for 23rd at 10.00 hours, until an opinion was obtained. You all got the government's opinion from the August 18th session and I ask you that, for the dignity of this assembly and for the dignity of the people who chose us, we read carefully the documents and that, then, on the basis of the facts, we are talking. Of course, once again, I thank everyone for their responsibilities. We're continuing our work. Does anyone want to talk about the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18287	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few words about the amendment, I simply have to refer to what you said about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. In no way could this paper containing the government's opinion come to the MPs on August 18th or 19th; August 18th was sent, so we just got it. But it's not so important dates, it's the haughtiness Mrs. Lakicevic spoke of. Now, this is the government's haughtiness. The July 23rd session has been interrupted. The law on the oil industry of Serbia is an emergency law. E, under the emergency procedure law, the Government, after a month, which is August 18th or August 19th, sends MPs an opinion on whether the amendment is right or wrong. There, of course, is no help and these words are not addressed to change anyone's political attitude, but it is important that the public knows that. And haughtiness is one of the important features of the functioning of the parliamentary majority and government. The Democratic Party... Once again, because a month ago we concluded the debate in principle and started this debate on details, so now we continue, I want, the DS sees it as a state interest not to put Serbia's Oil Industry Act out of effect. Not because it's a good law. This law was passed in other times, it was meant to regulate circumstances related to NIS on other occasions. It's an anachron law and it's not the right time to be in. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Law on the Oil Industry of Serbia is the only instrument that this assembly, which will say 250 MPs, who are representatives of the people, has to put pressure on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come to this house and from this speaker, Prime Minister, whoever, informs the National Assembly and the public of Serbia about what the Government intends to do with the oil industry of Serbia. The Serbian oil industry is the largest company in the country. Last year, NIS traffic, once again, was over three billion euros. What happens to NIS depends on the fate of every eight million people living in this country. Over the past month, the Democratic Party's position has only been given evidence to support its regularity. Those evidences are in the next one. I don't know if there are two ministers in the government who have a similar opinion on what they should do with NIS. Here is the energy minister, Mr Naumov -- who has done one very important thing for Serbia, because we will become part of the energy community of Southeast Europe, and that is the entry of the energy system, and I mean electricity and gas, into the EU system before anyone else -- is accused by Mr Dinkic's finance minister that he is guilty. And because Dinkic and Labus as Serbian negotiators did not have a strategy when they went to Washington to negotiate with the IMF. Now Mr. Naumov to say whether he has made a strategy or not, whether it is Mr. Dinkic who has become uninformed, it may be contagious, or perhaps it is something else. Minister Bubalo (Minister Bubalo, MPs know, but also the public, the country's economy minister) yesterday or the day before yesterday represents his concept of NIS privatisation. The minister says very clearly -- there is an agreement with the IMF, but the agreement should be amended. The word "sale" should be replaced by "privatisation", the word "majority", which refers to majority capital, should be expelled. What does Minister Bubalo mean? That some concept should be made that would not imply the sale of majority shares and the majority stake in NIS. The Prime Minister is silent, Deputy Prime Minister, did you hide Mr. Labus somewhere when he hasn't appeared in the white world in the last three weeks? The country is burning down about what will happen to the largest company in Serbia, and the Deputy Prime Minister, who, as far as I know, is dealing with business issues and should be giving some kind of opinion, has no, as in the black country that has failed. I don't know if Dinkic made a coup, so he took over the G17, so it's not the theme of this assembly, it's the theme G17, but it's important for this assembly that we don't have the Deputy Prime Minister's opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is more than clear that this Parliament, which means 250 people sitting in parliament, should not drop the only instrument that has in its own hands, which is the applicable NIS law, because we are dealing with a government that is not only boastful, but is confusing, irresponsible and incompetent. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the moment when each of us will, on his own conscience, decide whether to leave the fate of the NIS in our hands or to force the Prime Minister, find somewhere Mr. Labus, if he decides to continue to deal with politics, Minister Dinkic, Mr. Bubal, thank God Mr. Naumov is here, and he may explain something to us, that in this Parliament, they tell the people of Serbia what should happen to NIS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18288	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? We respect the Rules of Procedure, there's no reason to admire the intricacies. Here you go. Mr. Naumov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18289	Of course I have to report at the beginning of today so quickly, especially given the words of the esteemed Mr Petrovic that the government is confusing, irresponsible and does not know what it is doing. I just think it's the other way around. The government has achieved exceptional success in all areas it was meant to deal with. You said yourself, at least in the energy sector (thank you, that's true) we've done a big and main job. We, in the end, have made it possible to access the negotiations to join the European community, which will begin now in October of the month. Just say it and deny what you said. I think it's a little annoying. I know that it has been said because of some political and other intentions towards the public that is following this, but in a year and a half since this government exists, in the end it would be an insult to this parliament, when this parliament exists, Serbia has become a normal state; from a period where it has been both in organisational and institutional terms incomplete, it has become a completed state and as such respected in the world. I must say one other thing: the National Assembly of Serbia should not be the Director General of NIS. So what you're saying is that the only instrument that exists here right now is the Assembly that can affect NIS, and the same question is why the EPS doesn't have that same treatment, because when the Electricity Act, which is identical to this law, was abolished three months ago, it wasn't that argument that the Assembly was going to influence electricity. Finally, I need to clarify this detail regarding the quote of Finance Minister Dinkic and about whether we have a strategy or not, and who affected the negotiations with the monetary fund. I must remind you that "Politika", the daily, accurately conveyed the statement by Minister Dinkic, which says – at the time of signing an agreement with the IMF three years ago, there was no strategy to offer the IMF what would go first in the framework of privatisation, but the press showed it, that is, without the first part of the statement, so it comes down as if this government did it, which is not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18290	National MP Aleksandar Vlahovic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18291	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that everyone has enjoyed this summer break, the extraordinary break that was given in the assembly, so some opposition MPs have decided to continue their holidays, since, as far as I can see, they are not present in the Assembly today, and they have sworn to show their opposition position today and to discuss today that the law on the abolition of NIS is something against which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be. But we're used to such tactical moves by the opposition, so nothing surprises us today. We need to understand why the DS is against repealing the NIS Act. The point is, you have to know each other, to recognize the order of moves. The abolition of the NIS Act and the formation of two public enterprises and one shareholder company is only a mere status change. If we were to view this status change as part of the realisation of a clear NIS restructuring strategy, then wouldn't it have any problem for the DS to vote to abolish the law, but I am asking the question to both the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia – when the Serbian Parliament considered the NIS restructuring strategy, better or less, when did the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopt a NIS restructuring strategy or, better yet, when did the Ministry address the public with a clear concept of NIS restructuring? It's a strategy. I ask the ministry gentlemen not to mention the strategy defined by the timely consulting house "Bernabe", because it is a strategy that has never been adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and without the adoption of the strategy you cannot define even the appropriate strategic leverages. It is known that there are a whole series of measures combined to ensure that one public or any other company is restructured very effectively. One is status restructuring, the other is organisational restructuring, the third is financial restructuring, and only when you have a clear vision, clear construction, a clear strategy, I repeat that word again, the restructuring of the oil industry of Serbia, can you define these individual measures. Only when you have it can you define which part of the Serbia Oil Industry should enter the privatisation process and with what percentage of capital, will it be combined approach, for example, which is the position of the Democratic Party, is a parallel to privatization of refineries and the transport network, in order to preserve the continuity of the refinery business, and given the environmental problem, which is an excess of the refinery capacity and the real danger, which exists if uncontrollable privatisation occurs only in the refinery, without importing and raising attractiveness, with the transport network, that these refineries can be closed if only certain regional investors are customers of the refinery. Is it good to have a strategic partner who will be the owner of the refinery tomorrow or should be the puls of strategic partners who will be the owners of the refinery, these are questions, ladies and gentlemen, to which this assembly needs... If nothing else, she should be aware that there is a clear strategy, that there is a clear vision of what to do, how to do, what is the timetable of the move that must be withdrawn so that we can say afterwards at all that we will support the government, that we will vote in favour of the law on the abolition of Serbia's oil industry, and this is the first step, a status reorganisation in one whole trail of moves that will follow. What do we have instead? As much as the resolute minister is trying to ease it today, the fact is that we have confusion in the statements of individual ministers. It leads to the fact that a very responsible minister said that the refineries were decided to be first privatised, because it was a time teat when negotiations on the continuation of the rocks by the IMF in April of this year and when the IMF refused to sign the document. Then two new achievements were offered that the government would do: one is fast privatisation of NIS, so it is said – give refineries, since we have no plan; the other is reform of the pension system. A hot topic that will come for consideration in the Serbian Parliament – is it possible for one responsible sectoral policy to be led by simply offering national resources, family silver, better said, in privatisation without a clear plan and a clear strategy, in the absence of other arguments. I don't want to say, nor does anyone have the right to accuse the Democratic Party that we are against privatising the oil industry of Serbia. That is not true and we do not put ourselves in those political parties and political groups that say we are against any privatisation. On the contrary, privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia is overly necessary, desirable, in order to improve efficiency and thus raise the level of service for eight million people in Serbia, but not every privatisation, not privatisation without a plan, not privatisation without a clearly defined strategy. Another question that we ask very openly – if it is already in the process of privatising refineries, what are the long-term contracts that are signed with only one selected strategic partner, and that, as far as I know, is the signing of long-term contracts without previously implemented tender procedures; why is "Lukoil" chosen as a strategic partner, not OMV, "Helenik Petroleum", MOL, "Shell" or some larger strong company? If the privatisation of refineries is approached, then the question is how will the signed contracts bind hands and reduce the chances of quality privatisation. One more thing, nobody mentions oil refineries. This should have been in the privatisation process a long time ago, as it had nothing to do with the oil industry of Serbia, i.e. the core of activity. It seems to me that the Deputy Prime Minister made all the confusion with his statements, since he obviously couldn't tell the difference between oil refineries and oil refineries, so for a while he spoke one thing, hour another. It's further confusion and further evidence that it's done without a clear plan, without a clear strategy. That is why the Democratic Party will not vote to repeal the NIS Act. One more sentence to Mr. Secretary. When we abolished the EPS Act, Mr. Minister, we had before that a debate on the energy strategy. When we repeal the NIS Act, we do not have a debate on the restructuring strategy of Serbia's oil industry. Give us a strategy, and we'll have no problem voting after that for the NIS law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18292	Mr. Vlahovicu, Mr. Naumov was not talking about the current ministry, but about the 2002 memorandum, so it would be good to find out who negotiated it. Here you go, Mr. Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18293	I would first ask whether the former minister of business is in agreement with the former energy minister, when he says here whether to sell refineries or not to sell refineries. Secondly, I think something has been repeated here that has been conducted through discussions that have been discussed in principle. I must say, the energy development strategy covers oil and gas industries, not just electricity. Therefore, I don't know why I would defend my position if the debate on the abolition of the Law on Electricity was something different than the debate on this law on the abolition of the Law on the Oil Industry of Serbia. The bottom line of the whole thing is that by removing the existing NIS law, we create conditions for this public enterprise to finally get an organisational structure that is suited to the elemental organisational standards that apply to any company in the world. This kind of organisational structure in which NIS has been operating for 14 years is unique in the world and the only one in the world regarding the oil industry. If three international studies and two proposals for the reorganisation of NIS, by two different NIS boards, during the period of the previous government, first and second previous governments, are not enough to confirm that this situation was unsustainable, then I really don't know what else has to be done and how much more public and parliament needs to be convinced and anyone else. All that is done is extremely open and who has eyes to see, and the ears to hear can know that full consistency has been in the conduct of the government's energy policy and in terms of organisation, reorganisation, restructuring and privatisation. In the end, why are we doing this? We work to get the flexibility of decision-making in future organisational continents, to get more efficient business, to have that integration into the regional market. Also, I have to add that any reorganisation, especially this one, is a dynamic process that adapts to market conditions. So let us start this process, if we want more revenue in the budget, if we want bigger salaries of NIS employees. Well, the oil industry of Serbia has been going through four reorganisations from 1980 to 1991, looking for a better business model, and we are discussing from 1991 to 2005 what form should be of the new and modern conditions of the adapted organisation. As for the long-term contracts my predecessor mentioned, of course it's not about signing long-term contracts. As the list of opportunities and wishes is given in each memo, so is such documents that are not contracts. I guess it's a natural process. Thanks to one such relationship and the process we had, for a year and a half in search of the possibility of modernization and refinery and the whole of the NIS, where we were looking for opportunities to raise product quality, to get closer to European level, quality, etc., we created the image that we are now interested in such giants as "Shell", "Kellogg", "British Petroleum", "Lukoil", there are 5-6, so that I don't list them in order. Everyone has an interest because NIS is now an attractive firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18294	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS is against repealing the NIS Act. We gave our reasons several times in the principle debate. The great halabuca has risen in public. Serbian citizens want to get a clear vision and a picture of what will happen to NIS, what will happen to what represents the country's energy potential, with what it represents, I feel free to say, Serbia's greatest treasure and what we would have to worry about most. The debate on whether someone has been guilty since 2002, whether this one has been negotiated in one way or another or not, will not diminish the fact that today the Government of the Republic of Serbia and none of the authorities have any strategy, nor knows what will happen after the adoption of this law. Namely, if you get a majority, and many of them have flirted, which with the electoral body, which is probably with something else, expecting government support for other things or some other political parties, if they give you support for this; they've flirted with the electoral body expecting some new voters, some new voters, because they've long fallen under the electoral censorship, invested and talked to them – we're not going to vote for it and we can't sell refineries. People, you heard the finance minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, who made it clear that as a country we have several months to sell refineries in Pancheva and Novi Sad, that it will not go on privatising the ideal work, as Minister Bubalo says, below 50%, but will go on sectors. Those who are most profitable, above all refineries, go directly to sales, creating the possibility of a great gain for those who will take these refineries in such a way. Now I have to tell you what trends are in the world and why we Serbian radicals are against. You see, Russia began to get on its feet, like China, and America itself in time, before it became the most powerful force in the world, just by putting under its paws what represents the greatest wealth, which is energy, ore sources, steel, what is most important, cigarettes, alcohol, what you can somehow put under the financial control of the state. Here we lose everything if the Serbian government model is accepted, which is the sale of the NIS refinery. Why? What works best is easy to sell for both small and large money. That's what the buyer always finds himself for. The question arises as to what the state will manage afterwards, how many billion per year incomes will we lose just because that income will not be state-owned, but the state will only be able to charge taxes. The question is how will it charge him, especially given the fact that so far many who have avoided all obligations towards the state and how interested they are to participate in the NIS privatisation process. It's about the most powerful criminals and the biggest mobsters. Of course, where the biggest money is, such as oil, drugs, cigarettes, alcohol, there are also the biggest and most important interests. There's no doubt about that. That's why the noise's so loud. That's why some who have no political interest in protecting the state, protecting the state's property or protecting the citizens have now appeared, so they're god damn against this. Why? Because they have their own interests, because they would be bigger mobsters and criminals than others. But there is also a significant part of Serbia that is against this because it wants to protect the state. We don't have a "d" from the state today, and we have to have, regardless of the state doesn't have the role it played 20 and 30 years ago, we have to have a country, we have to have a state. That's why we can't allow such a sale. There was a lot of noise now against Vladimir Putin, because he decided to put alcohol flows under his control in Russia, as he put all energy sources under his control. When I say mine, I don't mean personal, I mean state. He decided to put alcohol under his control. I see at some of the world's services this morning a severe attack on the expense of the Russian president. Why? Because even from there, it will benefit Russia enormously, and will no longer be their foreign reserves of 135 billion and will be in third or fourth foreign reserves, but will slowly draw closer to another place in the world, and because they know that the state is getting its own, that this is how the state gets what it belongs to. That's our job here. Our job is to protect what works, which can work much better if you don't have a mob director at the head of the NIS, Mr. Minister, one of the best men, Mr. Minister. I've got other things I'd like to tell you. But something that can and must function well at all times and in any case. In Serbia today, the key job of politicians is to fight the mafia, that the mafia does not run the state, that it is the state that will run the key business or that it has control over the business that private business will manage. The rescue for Serbia at the moment is exactly that kind of strategy. You show us that you have agreed within the ruling coalition, that we are going to sell the ideal piece to 50%, not what the finance minister is talking about, so tell us it's true, so write it somewhere. I'll read it to you now, I hope you'll have enough patience, documents. So, one comparison with telecommunications, see how it goes with the privatisation counselors. Namely, point 1) – The government of the Republic of Serbia decided at a session on June 24th 2004 to initiate a procedure for selecting privatisation advisers in the area of telecommunications. Point 2) – The government of the Republic of Serbia at a session of 23.3.2005, so nine months later, decided to launch a public procurement process for consulting services to develop a privatisation strategy for the telecommunications sector. Point 3 – The Privatisation Agency issued a public call on 20 May 2005 for the participation of interested bidders in the qualification phase of the restrictive procurement process for the provision of consulting services related to the construction and development of a privatisation strategy for Serbia's telecommunications sector. According to Article 3(3), the time limit for the submission of the draft law is three months from the date of conclusion of the contract. The file provided shows that the participant, with a call for insight into the documentation obtained then and then... Now, if time is analysed from 24 June 2004 to today, the question is why the deadline is set for the privatisation strategy to be done in three months and who can professionally do so within that time limit. It took a year for one of the most ordinary papers, which the secretary could immediately type, to make a privatisation adviser, and the Serbian government and you prepare it at such speed, possibly selling NIS. Will you do the same as in the Broadcasting Law, where you said within two months, and I ask you, if I'm going to compete, I don't have television, how is it possible for me to get permission and do it, because it has to be on the air by law. Is that the same for NIS, is that what you're predicting, in two months, that it's all over? Who's going to buy it, will Goran Novakovic? There he was, naked as a mouse when he came to Serbia, and now he's driving speedboats across the streets of Belgrade, usually driving on water, and now he can take the roads, how much money he has. Is that what you're preparing for Serbia? Does Serbia have to fight – it must, because Serbia has to win this battle, no matter how you trade, no matter what you did, no matter what you did in the previous days, because it is the job of the majority and I can understand it and understand it, I know what politics is, but Serbian citizens can't understand it, because Serbian citizens want to hear that some decision goes in favour of them, in favour of this country, and not that they lose every day. Dealing with the mafia, dealing with crime, dealing with corruption, that is Serbia's most important task today, and that is why I call on you to start this task today and vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18296	The word is Momir Markovic. Excuse me, Mr. Markovic, you can't manage when the minister will speak. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18297	Of course, we're here from one process, one process, we're talking about reorganization, and now it's mostly about privatisation. Before I say anything about privatisation, we'll wait for Mr. Markovic to say something. I just have to say a few words about calling and connecting the government with affairs and these things. I guess it's clear to everyone that the government, and especially the Ministry, has no reason to be silent and to cover up any irregularities in the NIS Public Enterprise. You have also mentioned several times in your current discussions or oil issues, so-called Syrian oil, and I must tell you that the Ministry of Energy, within its jurisdiction, has initiated a procedure to determine the truthfulness in this case, based on the first indications in the press. That's what got an unspeakable publicity in public. The procedure for such matters predicted three stages. The first phase was to get information from the NIS management structure; the second phase to get a report from the internal control authorities and the third phase, finally, to hire an independent international consultant who, in order to obtain an independent opinion, would determine which one is the truth or not. We of third parties, therefore, as Ministry, did not receive any official information that would indicate abuse of the intervention of these oil imports. If that were done, the Ministry would immediately provide the same information or data to the authorities responsible. The investigation conducted by the former assistant minister followed his criminal charges, and it was done without the knowledge of both the minister and the ministry, so we do not know the information, the documents the gentleman was carrying out on the basis of which he made that criminal report. The moment the authorities initiated any statement by us from the Ministry, based on insight into these documents, etc., would be certain to prejudge the investigation or to pass a verdict that is least competent to the Ministry. In order to put an end to this case, I call on the competent authorities either to put an end to it or to take the actions prescribed by the law. The most important thing is to make a public statement. The greatest interest in both the government and the ministry is to tell the real truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18298	The word is Mr. Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened to Mr. Minister sitting here in the front row and, right to tell you, we from the Serbian Radical Party should already start getting used to sitting in this front row. I'll pick up where Mr. Vukic stopped when he told Novakovic to start driving speedboats across the streets of Belgrade. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, do you know that right now as we are discussing NIS is the only buyer who has the right to buy the highest quality mule, bearing the NS GS, the company of the same Novakovic, and everyone who needs that high-quality mule can only buy from him, of course with a commission. While we're discussing NIS, two days ago, the gas bought up, so now a liter of gasoline costs you 80 dinars. It's always been three dinars and 20 pairs, and in these five years since you've been in power with 16 dinars, how much a liter of gasoline cost in 2000, it's now dressed to 80 dinars. Yes, and in America, it's got gas, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and today in America, gasoline costs 137.50 dinars, but gallon, it's 4.5 liters. A liter of gasoline in that same America costs 35 dinars. What are we talking about? Where's the difference between this? As it comes to that price that should be 35 dinars to 80 dinars, it also shows you this question of how a mule is sold, how many are installed until the mule reaches the last buyer. However, experts from the oil industry of Serbia, previously called "Naftagas", came up with money being left in the house, so for example, NAP director Bosko Vukarevic and Ćuković, who is his assistant or deputy, form a company in Vienna, which is called the "Hempetra" and imports oil through it. So, they buy oil on the Rotterdam Stock Exchange, they install as much as they think, not as normal, but as much as they think they need to be installed and then sell it to the NIS. That is why the NIS has come into this situation where it is now that energy costs enormously, and this is going over to all the products in which energy participates in production, and it is again paid by Serbian citizens. Another issue I wanted to raise – 10.6.2005 The NIS Management Board also says in Article 1. "In order to speed up the privatisation process, a process will be implemented to separate the secondary activities, i.e. parts and organisational units of the oil industry of Serbia (hereinafter referred to as NIS), in which actions are carried out that do not constitute the core work of NIS and the sale of permanent roles that NIS has in other enterprises." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before this great holiday given to us by the President of the Assembly to rest and to prepare ourselves for this session and to do some jobs in both the oil industry and in many industries that can't be fixed through discussions and debate, I have asked a question for only one company in which NIS has a stock stake, in which NIS participated in the purchase and is the owner of a piece of property, and it's about "Politics". Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a huge package of companies in which NIS took part in the construction, establishment and founding and has founding roles, so I'm asking where this money, who's going to take it and who's going to take it tomorrow. Over 20 companies abroad are working under the hat of the NIS. I know about Rwanda, I know about oil exploration and exploitation, where Angola and I agreed at that time, because Angola couldn't pay us for research and exploitation, to make a joint venture; 49% of the oil extracted from Angola is owned by NIS, imported here and sold as domestic oil, because our companies are literally with that domestic oil and domestic oil that we extract from our wells in Vojvodina. Every country, even ours when it was smart, until the Bulldozer of the Revolution, ironed the price and thus preserved the social structure, because domestic oil is always cheaper than import. I'll just list some of the companies that I remembered in the meantime: "Nap-Combik" in Frankfurt, NAP Moscow, "Petrokomerc" London, "Mkonafta" Skopje, "Noobanis" Thessaloniki, "Ranis" Moscow, "RDS-Naftagas" London, "Jusiko" and two representations in Moscow, one representation in London, one representation in Rwanda and one representation in Beijing. The vast resources of the Serbian state have been allocated and are located in these companies. It seems that the scenario you came up with from the ruling nomenclature and those you've been past in the takeover, means those by 2003 and those of 2003, the scenario you've come up with to take over is the Genesis scenario. "Genex" had what's called a so-called "genex." Daughters, across all the attractive countries in the world. When "Genex" fell apart, daughters became businesses, the directors of these companies became company owners; many of them are now buying this small Serb poverty money they previously robbed. I'm not talking about the money that's been robbed since 2000. By 2005, that's all we're gonna talk about, I'm talking about the money that was robbed earlier. But the script is the same. We, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we discussed the waste of money, showed, or Mr. Vukic showed you a document showing 53 million, plus 38 million, went to any billboard houses, to advertise gasoline, because if I don't read on the billboard that gas is like that and that, I won't buy it for my car. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been a while since the NIS scratching began. Since 2000, we've been referring literally to everything that could have been hijacked in Serbia, you've kidnapped, you've got this. When this is over, you will be able to do exactly as Stipe Mesic said – I did the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18300	I thank Mr. Markovic. The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18301	I spent my working life in temples. First, in the temple of science, at the "Nikola Tesla" Institute for 35 years, and then I was here, I mean in a temple of truth and justice, like parliament. That is why I must react immediately and point to inaccuracies, to the lightly stated claims made by Mr Markovic which are actually completely unfounded. I'll start with the last one. For marketing and propaganda in the NIS business plan approved by the Government, 87 million were approved, not seven million as it was in the earlier story or as you now mention. Furthermore, regarding the waste of NIS's capital – NIS's invested capital is recorded neatly in business books, i.e., it is said, and amounts to about seven billion dinars, with a state in 31.12.2004. These are investments in various companies and banks. The largest percentage of these investments stem from the period before 2000. What companies are these? It's "MSK" Kikinda, there's 63% ownership, HIP Petrochemia, there's 15% ownership, BMP "Hayat hotels" has 37% ownership, "Yugoros gas" has 40%, "FIM" Kanjiza has 43%, "Pink" in Zemun has 49% ownership, in Vienna "Linde-Carbodioxide" has 18% and "Somall Angola" in Angola has 5%, that's what you mention and where 80,000 tonnes of production is produced annually, representing 7.5% of that production, but below 10% of production. It's data that's accurate and accurate. From this pay phone, we expect them to be spoken of. As for some start-ups abroad, there are only two companies. One was founded in 1996, the RDS-Naftagas in England and the other, Triface, founded in 2000 in Cyprus. The last company never worked, never had any traffic over the bill, never concluded any legal work. The previous, according to information from the register of companies for England and Wales, does not operate, is in a state of rest. The reason for this status is that this firm's final account has not been filed due to the obstruction of a foreign partner. So, we still used this month's break to check and get valid documentation for all of your remarks and suggestions, which you put out here a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18302	I thank Minister Naumov. Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18303	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party were not false. I didn't want to answer to Mr. Minister immediately, when he was talking about Syrian oil, and in the course of the day, I'm going to make him complete documentation, deliver it, so he's going to see that there's been a big robbery, really huge proportions, and it's very easy to prove, since it's not hard to check on the Internet, today, what kind of oil prices were on the world market that day, and how the fraud was done and what was done. But let me tell you, since you're saying that the government approved 87 million for marketing for 2004, is that right? The Minister confirms. ) Well, then I have to read to the citizens of Serbia what the Serbian government has approved, so ask yourself if it is in the interest of the Serbian citizens and who needs this. Every "World of Oil" show is somewhere between 1.6 million and up to three million dinars. I have to ask – and what is it that costs so much? I know how much production costs, and especially I don't know what it costs so much for such a show, especially if the spikes are done long ago, if the bodies are done, if the complete preparation for the show is done. I don't know what it costs so much. You might want to explain. So we are particularly interested in whether Serbian citizens gave money at pumps or in any other way to get Zeljko Popovic to sign 7.2 million for the Vojvodina Athletic Club. Is that what the Serbian citizens gave for? I don't mind, it's good to fund the sport, but it's good to know how to fund it and how to do it, not like this, to launder the money of NIS's leaders – I'm at your expense 7.2, and you give me 2.2 on my hands, so we solved the problem. And you all know that's how it's done. And you all know, as you all know, that pump that Belgrade's city leaders gave to the "Sava Center" outside of all the laws, because it has to be two kilometers after or before the next release on the highway, and it doesn't have 200 meters from one and the other, in the middle of 22nd block raised, and everyone knows it costs half a million euros and you all keep your mouth shut in this country. 7.2 million for the Duke's Athletic Club! Well, then, he says: sponsorship – "Rodic" million and 182 thousand. I don't know what it's for. Well, then you have: Olympic Games – wrestling. I understand, let's say it's some kind of state racket, so somebody called now and said it had to be done. I haven't heard of any of our great successes at it, but good. Then, car racing a million dinars. Someone from the family must be into that very sport. Student karate championship – million and 719 thousand. Concert at "Sava Center" - two million and 900. Come on, I can understand all of this, but what does a concert have to do now at the Sava Center for three million? Explain that to me, Mr. Minister. I can understand everything, but what does NIS have to do with a concert at the Sava Center? To explain that math to me. Here, if this isn't true, you say I'm lying. Well, then, it says: newspaper ads, design, be careful – pano design 312 thousand. And when we take one of the most expensive designers in Belgrade for an election campaign... (President: Time. Our time, as you know, Mr. Angelkovic... And here, I'm just finishing up. (President: Thank you. So... (Glasses: The President has changed. I apologize, Mr. Angelkovic; welcome, Mr. Markovic. So 312 thousand designs of a pano. Someone has to explain it to me. What he designed for that pan for 312 grand. We're also designed by flyers, and files, and pencils, and billboards and posters, and all that kind of costs. I don't know what it costs for NIS that much. Maybe Urosha Predic has it on the floor, so they should have done it that way now. One TV video has a million and 642,000. That must be some color spot. They didn't want those black and white anymore. Well, you, Mr. Minister, are joking with representatives of the National Assembly in this high house. It's better you didn't say the government knew about all this. We wish you'd said you didn't know. We'd like you to say that Mr. Popovic did it on his own, so we could say that the prosecutor will one day have work to do. So, as you told us that the government knew all this, how it was all right, how it's all good, here's if for nothing else, let the citizens of Serbia assess whether it's good, and because of this we can see why the travel model is so important to us and why the fight against corruption and crime is the most important thing for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18304	Thank you. The word is by Minister Radomir Naumov, then a replica, Mr Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18305	Very short. I will not respond to these quotations and these allegations, because it is not a matter for Parliament – we have supervisory and administrative committees there – but I am very pleased that this documentation, which you thought you would hand over to me, to the investigative authorities or to those whose jurisdiction it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18306	Thank you. Replication to the minister's presentation, I assume, of the previous exhibition, MP Momir Markovic. But let me give one notice and the consequence: the 18th session of the Education Committee, scheduled for 22 August 2005 at 10:30, was postponed for 1800 hours. In line with that, the session scheduled for today at 12.00 I'm moving for tomorrow at 10.00, and I hope we finish this point in the meantime. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18307	Thank you. I answered the line, Mr. Secretary misunderstood me. It wasn't me, Mr. Minister, who said you made these daughters companies around the world. Since 2005, nothing has been made of the bulldozer of the revolution, you've just knocked it down. And if there were any of these representations, I will read you the 1998 data, where even the salary is determined by those who work in these companies: "NAP-combik", two employees, the director of the 6,800 marks then, deputy 2,700 etc., and 1993. "NAP" Moscow, 1992 and 1993 "Novobanis" Thessaloniki, 1996. Ranis Moscow, other companies. Others also made a joint venture in Angola, where oil was exploited. Whether it's 49% or 7% of the total production of NIS -- so let's have one liter, Mr. Minister, where it goes when you privatize that one liter, who's going to get rich with it. Will Mr. Vučurović and his, as he is called, Djukovic and will he continue to purchase all the amounts of this Muppet produced in the Refinery Novi Sad and then trade with that mule or will the NIS sell that mule? Now, that's why the difference is, because they've all been implanted between 35 dinars, how much gas they cost in America, and 80 dinars, how much they cost us. It doesn't matter, let one liter produce, but it matters where that one liter goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18308	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18309	Amendment to Article 1. The bill states that Article 1. The bill is deleted; that is what the amendment to Article 2 reads, and I will not report in it. So, the public is doing, as I have pointed out many times before, when it comes to this submission of amendments, it is a purely parliamentary obstruction, which is legitimately the right of MPs, which we do not dispute. So, once again, I underline, do not dispute, but I have a commitment to the public, as a member of the ruling coalition and president of the DSS parliamentary group, to draw attention to the purpose of making such amendments to citizens who listen to TV. So, when it comes to MPs who submit such amendments, they do so solely to extend the debate in the principle of the draft law, and not to seriously discuss a member whose erasure here is required. In fact, the eradication of both members of the law, consisting of only two members, appears legally impossible, so the amendments were evaluated by the Legislative Committee and proposed that they be rejected. So, so much for the amendments themselves. As you can see, the bill itself has two members and, of course, this bill exclusively and only puts the NIS Act out of force. It's one of the basic preconditions that things could ever go off, that they could start from a dead end, that they could go into NIS restructuring and that privatisation could take place the next day. By what model? We are not discussing today the model for privatisation. There's no confusion in that sense. The only confusion that is made here is based on the yellow press and what we read from it, based on the incorrect interpretations of certain statements by individual ministers, when it comes to this subject. Today, according to those who would like to discuss in this way, it would be best if we had this very yellow press in the assembly material, if we had yellow press slices, if we had phonographic material with recorded statements, statements from certain ministers and comments from journalists, so that it was in the assembly material, to discuss on the basis of what is the subject of the debate, and that is not possible. Today, we can only discuss and solely on the basis of the material obtained from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these are the proposals of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal of this law, and we can discuss this in the context of other decisions made by the Government of Serbia through its regulations before and through the law that this National Assembly has made before that, which is the Energy Act. So, first of all, this is about harmonising legal regulations and lower legal acts with the Energy Act. It is three decisions, three regulations made before this by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and one decision that is very important and relevant for this debate, which the government of the Republic of Serbia made last week, and this is a decision to call a tender for the election of consultants, a privatisation consultant. What does that mean? This means, for the sake of the public and for the sake of the citizens, that today we do not vote on any model of the privatisation of NIS. We don't define ourselves at all today as to what the NIS privatisation model will look like. Today, we are solely making one technical act so that the next day we can define ourselves as a model of privatisation and a way of restructuring the public enterprise, i.e. NIS. Therefore, who is today against the vote of this law, he, regardless of any other arguments that have been made here, is knowingly holding back further the process of reorganisation, the restructuring of NIS continues to be privatised. It is true that everything that has been said regarding certain deadlines and certain obligations that we have under the IMF, but should also be taken into account when it comes to slowing down this process. So today, we are only discussing a law that repeals the NIS law, not privatisation, privatisation, the privatisation model. This will be discussed later, when a model based on a decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia is established, based on what is proposed by a privatisation consultant. So, all the debates with this relationship and all the things we heard today or rest on assumptions, on pure speculation, or we've heard some of the debates that come first from the newspaper's writings in the yellow press. So we are only interested in what is in the assembly procedure and the meaning of the act that is being adopted today, and I ask you best not to vote in favour of this amendment, as well as for the next amendment to Article 2 of this bill, but, when voted in the day of voting, to vote by adopting this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18310	Anyone else want to go by the amendment? It's a business thing. Here you go, Mr. Vlahovic. Mr. Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18311	I respond to the presentation of Mr Milos Aligrudic, and I state Article 101 of Article 1 which says: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insultingly expressed about the MP", which is not the case, "that is to say, misread his presentation", which is, therefore, the misreading of the presentation, first of all, what I was talking about. So it's not about here, ladies and gentlemen, priority on the privatisation of NIS. This is about NIS restructuring. Privatisation is just one of the restructuring strategies. I don't understand, Mr. Aligrudic, why you keep saying that we're talking about privatisation today. We're not talking. You obviously either didn't listen when I was talking or you didn't master that lesson in time, but what can I do about it? I can't help you with that. I'm very taxing on what are the strategies that apply to define one strategic goal. We want to have a successful public company NIS. The status reorganisation measures, organisational consolidation measures, financial restructuring are applied, and this is a whole set of measures, where privatisation is part of financial restructuring. The first measure for the implementation of the strategy is status restructuring. What we're talking about today is the status restructuring of NIS, but we lack the key thing, and that's the strategy. NIS restructuring strategy. What do we want? If we knew today, okay, in the realisation of the strategy we'd first run the division of NIS into three companies, one of which would be actional, two public. What about petrochemicals? When do we start with the start of privatisation, first of all, what's not Kor business and everything else? What about the debts? For example, NIS has some debts and I'm interested in how the financial restructuring of NIS will continue and so on. So, what is the key observation of the Democratic Party, I would pray, I say this for the public, I don't want something that isn't DS's position to be wrong, is that we can't talk about individual measures until we see a clear NIS restructuring strategy, and after restructuring, among other things, as one of the measures followed by privatisation. We're not talking about privatisation today. Why do we divide NIS into three companies, which is the detail of a general mosaic called strategy? If you explain this to us, we will vote without any problems for the law, but give the first strategy to discuss it, so that we can discuss individual measures, among other things, the measures of the status composition, or the status measures of the status reorganisation. You can't say now about the amendments proposed by the Democratic Party, and here I could already quote this first part of Article 101 - an offensive attitude towards one parliamentary group, that it was calculated to only extend time. That's not true. You think I'm happy to sit here today and try to try to explain to the majority ruling group in a plastic way why it's not good to go into individual measures and not have a clear strategic vision. Let me take advantage of it, since I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, just to say one thing I've missed in my previous presentation. Never has the previous government signed any document relating to the privatisation of NIS, not EPS, but any public enterprise. It is true that we have begun restructuring all public enterprises by establishing a special restructuring committee and it is true that we have done everything to reduce costs, but privatisation is something that has been delayed for the next phase. Therefore, it cannot be imputed to the previous government that it is she who has made a commitment to the IMF. Please, let's tell the elemental truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18312	The first replica, Mr Petrovic, to be presented under the amendment of Mr Aligrudic, and then Mr Aligrudic to be exposed to Mr Vlahovic's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18313	Mr. President, of course Mr. Aligrudic has the right to speak his mind and opinion on whether amendments are good or not, whether they are necessary or not, and I don't blame him, but it is very important that each attitude has its own good premise and logical justification. If nothing else, this debate in particular takes longer than a debate in principle. Mr. Naumov here has spent, by my own discretion, 10 times more time today when we are discussing two amendments, than he has used time to convince MPs to vote for this law, when it was time and place, in an exposé prior to the start of the debate or at the beginning of the debate in the principle of law on the non-compliance of the NIS Act. Over the month, the oil industry of Serbia has become a topic in our society, and that is good because many issues are open. Unfortunately, a very small number of questions have been answered, but that answer should be given here. Unfortunately, Minister Naumov did not give it and, frankly, I doubt it, although here is his deputy or assistant Mr Sokolovic, who is more than a minister addressed to these oil issues, but we did not get answers to the questions we asked. Mr. Vlahovic said here what is really the essence of things. The bottom line is, if this law gets most of it, it's the last time we as MPs have the opportunity to control the process of restructuring and privatising the oil industry of Serbia. It is not good because at this point we do not know what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to do. When Mr. Aligrudic says there are deadlines, that the IMF has set our country deadlines that we have even exceeded, then I ask most of all, and ask Mr. Naumov what bothered the government of the Republic of Serbia to call for a privatisation adviser in the oil industry Serbia last year. Since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Democratic Party has been drawing attention each time and calling for serious restructuring of public enterprises and of course the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to blame for not having the opinion of a competent person or institution to date what should be done with the oil industry of Serbia. Of course, then the government has no opinion and that is why ministers make contradictory and confusing statements, and that is the best proof that the government should not be left to the further process of privatising NIS without the control of this assembly. That's why we have to vote against the NIS law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18314	Here you are, MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18315	It's obvious we got it all wrong again. When it comes to the privatisation process, it is inextricably related to the restructuring process. When it comes to the restructuring process, it is also the subject of what should be addressed by someone who gets a tender for consulting services. Thus, it is difficult to set things up when it comes to order of action, so to say that it is necessary for this congregation to adopt or see that there is a particular strategy, and for the strategy we know that it was responsible and in charge of someone else before us. In this whole strategy-making process, a company called "Deloitte and Touche" took part, so the speaker I'm doing here today, I don't know if he's working today, so he's probably wrong because today he can't participate in this whole process, probably because he'd have, if anything else, even internal benefits that he's doing for a company that allows the state to participate in these processes, and that he's holding a ministerial chair. From all of this today, there is nothing, and I will remind you of one very simple thing and, I repeat, I have not said for one moment that today the topic of this debate is the privatisation of NIS, but you look at the stenograms of what has been said before, what has been said, before the session was interrupted, in principle debate, and what has been heard today, so you will see that these two things are inextricably connected, when it comes to restructuring and privatisation. So today, we are only making one legal-technical step so that we can even get into the story of developing a further restructuring and privatisation strategy for the oil industry of Serbia. So that's what it's all about and everything else that's being said here is just changing thesis. So when we talk about it, that's what's important here, and everything else is less important. Then we ask ourselves a question of deadlines, etc. It doesn't matter how many deadlines. It is important that we know, and I agree with you here, what the strategy is and how it should go into the restructuring of the oil industry of Serbia, but this is the first step. If we miss this first step today, then we can't catch any deadlines; not deadlines that are imposed, but those that force ourselves to do the job quickly. When it comes to the control of the process, excuse me, please, do you know that any of the MPs has heard that the National Assembly is in charge of any law to control the process of restructuring and privatising any public enterprise and any public sector. It just doesn't seem, we couldn't see it anywhere. Here, conditions are created for such a thing, through the adoption of the Energy Act, through the adoption of laws on the oil industry of Serbia, and then by law. Therefore, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia cannot take over the work of the government's executive bodies, but can deal exclusively with legislative activity. It is enough to look at certain provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and to determine the responsibilities of the National Assembly. Therefore, it is known exactly who is monitoring the process of restructuring and privatisation in this country, and that body is responding to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia and it is the way things work in this country. So everything else we hear here is a pure replacement of thesis. Today, we are not voting on the restructuring of the oil industry of Serbia, neither today, or when it is voting day, we are either voting or declaring ourselves on the form or model of privatisation of the oil industry of Serbia. I'm sorry if you thought that I misread that you meant privatisation, but please look at the stenogram, look at what you were saying, look at the terms you used, and then we'll talk about it in a relaxed way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18316	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Vlahovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18317	So, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 101, renegotiation, and the rich and misrepresentation of the facts. So, as far as I know, the government of the Republic of Serbia, meanwhile in this marathon break, has decided to call a tender not for a privatisation advisor, but for a financial adviser, Mr. Aligrudic, so you mention privatisation again, not me, which will define the restructuring programme, and among other things, the restructuring programme should contain what part of the oil industry is entering the privatisation process and what dynamics. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia did not make a decision to hire a financial adviser before this law entered into a debate in the Serbian Parliament, but rather it was an exorcised solution, when the political temperature was raised and when it was realised that there was no majority in this parliament to pass one of these laws on the abolition of NIS. It absolutely has to do, because once again it is proof that it is working without any plan, that it is responding from moment to moment, depending on whether the political situation has come up, depending on whether another political trade is needed to push through, and the deadlines exist, the deadlines are defined. I don't want to mention other events during the summer, some withdrawal of the indictment, I believe it has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. So, I'm not going to mention that, these classic political stories. Another thing, Mr. Aligruditch, we would have told us this if we had the chance to say it. Just when we started talking about amendments, Mr. President of the National Assembly interrupted the session and gave a marathon break from, as one of my MPs calculated, 44,400 minutes. We were, the Democratic Party, in complete doubt whether we should sit here in the hallway waiting for the beginning of the session or to go outside; we don't know what to do, how to act in a pause during the session of the National Assembly. Thirdly, although Mr. President warned me that I had convinced him, I must convince others. Mr. Aligrudić, if you don't like Deloitte and Touche, well, your people are sitting on the board of directors, don't choose her as an advisor, not as an auditor, not as a strategy, not as a value assessment. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Aligrudic, I'm from Deloitte and Touche, and I repeat for those who sat on their ears and didn't hear that, I came out on January 24, 2001. I've had absolutely nothing to do with Deloitte and Touche ever since. I don't work there, I don't own a stake, I don't have anything else. I'll never work at Deloitte & Touche again, I can guarantee that. Mr. Aligrudic, unlike many, I never go backwards, with my own steps backwards. Thank God, there's still a lot of work in this country for people who know how to do things, but I know you can't understand that. Indeed, this is the last time I respond to the malice involved in the company "Deloitte & Touche". Therefore, once again, we are not talking about privatisation, we are talking about restructuring and a strategy that is not available. We have individual moves that are made from opportunity to opportunity, from case to case, in extortion, by the government, by the Assembly, if you will. We regret that we did not discuss this before the summer break and before these marathon vacations that both the Government and the Assembly had, because then we had a month more time to reach consensus and realise the common goal, and our goal is to raise the level of efficiency of NIS, but through a clearly defined restructuring strategy, which includes privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18318	I am obliged to remind you once again of the facts, because of the dignity of the National Assembly, because you are absolutely right. Yes, the MPs did not use their right to talk enough about this law at July 22, because during a principle debate at 1514, none of those who did not use their time asked for a word and did not want to talk within the time available for a principle debate. Also, on July 23rd, no one answered the amendment, but I respected the fact that probably... At 3:15 p.m., on my question on the amendment, after no one answered, I respectfully gave a break, which, in order to avoid confusion, was defined by the Rules of Procedure, on which basis MPs do not have to sit in the hallway, because the same member by which the break was given in the fourth position says, "The President of the National Assembly will inform the Members of Parliament about the continuation of the session." On that occasion, I informed the MPs about the continuation of the session, so they had no reason to sit in the hallway. At the same time, I remind you there was no confusion, as the president of the assembly, respecting all MPs, announced on the day before that the vote under this law would certainly be only on 22 August, due to earlier announced works that had to be carried out in the Assembly. Thank you all for understanding. Once again, does anyone by this amendment want a word? Here you go, Mr. Cross. Prior to that, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18319	Mr. President, I ask that you respect the dignity of the National Assembly and that you do not doubt at all the power of judgment of the MPs, of our intellectual ability and that you do not deceive the public of Serbia. You took a break because you didn't have most of this law to be passed at that time. Let's not lie to each other from this pay phone again. Let's talk straight as people once. Did you, in the meantime, secure most of it? They'll check themselves out today at the vote. I don't know how you got it, when it's impossible, except for money, to reverse the attitude of some people who built NIS by the concept that exists now. So that it could get in their heads to change in a few hours, as far as you had at your disposal. It took you a month, and it went slow and I'd count on it. These were the most serious works in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What was done on the outside on the exterior, replacing 15 lamps, painting the roof at the entrance to the National Assembly, did not stop us from working, Mr. President. So, because of the public, and you're going to do it like you're going to do it. How you managed to secure the money, that's how you'll have a vote. You're doing your job, but don't convince us who we are against what you're doing right now that we've been involved with you in the renovation of the National Assembly. We don't care. We can sit in the open. We don't need a organized National Assembly, we don't need new computers, we don't need anything if you have a good law. You have a very bad law, you have a law that the whole of Serbia fears. You're aware of that, but you're under the influence of the people who are going to do this. I'm sure you'll do this. That's how much madness has caught some people. You will give what is most precious, what you care. You don't build this house to have your grandkids and great-grandsons living in it, you build this for sale. When the house is built for sale, it is also saved on material, quality and labour. That's the kind of house you build. Half the members of the ruling coalition don't think the sons and grandchildren in that house live. So don't cheat on us here. We're very concerned about the fate of the NIS. I'd like to hear those who were against the law a month ago whether this renovation affected them to change their attitude. As far as we're concerned, we're not going into the O.R. to make a quorum. You'll probably have to provide 126 MPs for this bill. Now, let me see these 126 MPs and ask them for a year what they did to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18320	Mr. Omerovic, you're looking for an amendment? We have to respect the order. I remind you once again, it is a matter of accurate and precise notification that it will vote on August 22nd. It's announced a long time ago. You can check for stenograms. I also thank you, it is true, MPs did not participate in the renovation, i.e. No messenger but you, Mr. Nikolic. You participated with 2,100 dinars, as much as you've given here for renovation. Here you go, Mr. Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18321	It is only because of the public that I am going out and I want to answer the insinuations, questions or inaccuracies of Mr Vlahovic and Petrovic. The government has not only a strategy plan to develop, privatise and organise NIS, it also has an action plan. She had it all for the EPS, too, when you didn't publicly call and ask. Many people participated in the preparation of NIS restructuring documents. It's been years. In this you now have the last inter-minor composition between the Ministry of Mining and Energy, between the Ministry of Economy, between the Ministry of Finance, with both unions, with management and with experts from the given area, very precisely elaborated and given. It was given not only precisely in terms of the organisation, but also in terms of the social programme. I can tell you that there is an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the NIS Trade Union on the signing of a collective contract. It's the first time in years that a collective contract will be signed. It's exactly the material that's going to be sent to the government. So, that detail, I must say, is respected not because today is a session, but because it was natural during and timing that came in line today to be done. As far as this constant shift from the issues of reorganisation and the adoption of a technical law is concerned, that is to say, the decision to abolish the technical law in order to move, that the new firm that is being educated, as I said, is fully in line with the Energy Act and our public enterprises and practices that exist in the world, and that has no direct link to privatisation, that is another thing. We know that privatisation is one inevitable process in energy, but we also know that the speed of privatisation, the percentage ratio of privatisation in certain sectors of energy does not mean successful privatisation. It's one thing when it comes to electricity, and another thing about the oil industry; simply put, we want the privatisation process not to be, as you said in your earlier appearances, burazer or kumovski, but that it represents one general interest, both national and strategic, for our Republic. What's more beautiful than what we've hired a privatization consultant, and not just a privatization consultant, but a strategic advisor and a privatization advisor who needs to respond, to propose an optimal form, way, the privatisation phase of NIS, and all in order, as we said at the beginning, to get a modern and efficient, competitive company in the region. Why? In order to have a stable market supply for European quality derivatives here, at an acceptable price for citizens of Serbia, and to make these companies the engine of developing our country's economy. This, along with this inclusion in all of this and the social programme, goes to one general benefit, and of course it will also go to an increase in budget revenues. So the optimal form of privatisation will propose an adviser, but the government will also decide whether to accept or not, which form is accepted. Privatisation is not just about sales, privatisation means recapitalisation, modernisation, entry of strategic partners through other companies. Therefore, privatisation advisers will provide one very responsible expert analysis of the economic justification of these solutions to be proposed, with all possible risks that such an approach would mean. You know, this is a very serious thing, NIS, it's a serious thing. I especially have to mention, we don't look at NIS through "Naftagas" or through refineries and the traffic phase, we're looking here and this part of the later economy. There are still big steps and procedures ahead of us and, as I said, when the energy community is formed, there will be billions of dollars of investment in the area of Southeast Europe. There must be our company, ready to participate in all this; ultimately, to classify this Serbia in a way that corresponds to modern states.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18322	By amendment? Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18323	A few sentences about what happened a month ago. It's completely false what the president of parliament said a little bit. It was more important for the MPs to have a cocktail here in the hall of the Assembly than to hold, when it was scheduled, a debate in principle. After that, and that's what I was talking about in the afternoon session of 22 or 23, I don't remember exactly, this assembly was a few hours in a completely impossible legal situation. The debate was to begin in principle, and the speaker of the Assembly continued the work of the Assembly, and the debate began several hours later, at 15 o'clock. It will, of course, enter the annals of this assembly and that is one large legal issue, because there is a professor of law here, so when public law is studied, it will be one of the good examples of how the President of the Assembly has violated the elementary rule of how this assembly works, and that is the Rules of Procedure. So none of the MPs had the opportunity to report in the debate on the details, because, after several statements on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in the afternoon part of the session of the 23rd president decided to take a break and the break lasted from that moment to today until 10 o'clock. That's true, and it's very important that the public has that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18324	According to the amendment, MP Svetislav Krstic first appeared, he is not in the hall; the word has been given by MP Meho Omerovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that it was all a matter of haste when it comes to this bill that should put out NIS testimonies and this debate today for almost two hours, we are only discussing one amendment, which is proof that we are, in fact, at the beginning today. What we are talking about today is, in fact, the most basic and fundamental debate about whether this law should be passed in this congregation. Although some have made efforts to perhaps during this summer's break with the renovation of the Serbian Parliament's building, the views of individual parliamentary groups are also renovated, we remain in the SDP's position that we took a month ago in the principle debate, which is -- the oil industry of Serbia needs first to find a strategic partner, to modernise, to strengthen, and only then to discuss its privatisation. The Social Democratic Party requires, above all, that trade unions be active participants in reforming the energy system in Serbia. And this implies that trade unions also influence the privatisation process not only of the EPS, but also of other public enterprises at the socially acceptable price of all employees. It is therefore necessary to do everything possible to complete the job of signing collective agreements for energy public enterprises and to start a free division of shares for all employees, both current and former, under the NIS system. We in the SDP will not and cannot allow workers to be the biggest losers in the process of reorganising the energy system, and therefore we believe that it is necessary for social dialogue, first of all with representative unions, to come up with acceptable solutions. In order to avoid confusion and malicious interpretations, and this time I want to point out – the SDP supports the reorganisation of public enterprises, NIS and EPS, but do not make us at the speed that you've been scaring us for the last few days, allegedly by IMF directives and by the deadlines until the privatisation of certain parts of the NIS... We interpret such directives in the SDP as initiatives that were actually created here in Belgrade, with us, from individual stakeholders, and all with the aim of deploying NIS and even faster privatisations, as we have said, of the suddenly selected refineries, and one interested group to gain huge wealth from intermediation fees and other cheap capital and investment markets. That we were right to confirm, after this summer's break, and the last session of the government of the Republic of Serbia, at which a decision was taken to initiate a procedure for the public procurement of Privatisation Service to the NIS, with three plus four months, away from the IMF's alleged deadlines for privatising two refineries. Because of this, the Social Democratic Party will fully insist on respecting the positions of representative trade unions that are related to the reform and privatisation of the energy system of the Republic of Serbia, signed on 11 August this year by the union presidents and the president of the Social Democratic Party, Dr Nebojsa Covic. Because of this, in the very end, if there is a vote on the bill, the Social Democratic Party MPs will not participate in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18326	Thank you. The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18327	Fellow Members and fellow Members of the ministry's esteemed colleagues, it is good to report someone from the oil industry of Serbia. I have come under the circumstances in a double role, as a folk MP and as someone who has been working in the oil industry of Serbia for 14 years. Another detail that may not be irrelevant is that for 7.5 years I was the director of the Development Centre and the Development Sector of the Oil Industry of Serbia. I've met NIS quite well from that position, and we do have serious objections to the adoption of NIS termination laws. First, we started to discuss this law in the course of our annual vacations by emergency procedure, as if it were some minor law, and it was one of the most important projects this assembly is making. For the sake of the public, I will make one comparison: the budget of the Republic of Serbia for this year is about 430 billion dinars, and the income of the NIS in last year is 193 billion dinars. So here we are discussing the NIS, which has over two billion euros in revenue annually. It's big money for this country and of course it was necessary for this whole project to approach much more seriously. The basic remarks made here by one part of the MPs are correct. In fact, you can't see what's going to happen after the law's passed. There's a law being passed here, and what's next? When discussing such an important law, it is necessary to know what is wanted, what is the strategy of restructuring, or privatisation. The minister has repeatedly said that the adoption of this law, which is a technical law, has nothing to do with any privatisation and that it will only be in a later period. I will quote here the statement by NIS Director General Popovic, who said (not for the yellow press, because the "Economist" list is certainly not a yellow print): "The oil refineries in Krusevec and Belgrade are mostly separated from the NIS and have passed into the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, so that they could soon be privatised. About the oil refineries NIS finished most of the work, so it's on the privatisation agency's move. "So, not only will privatisation not take place in the next period, but it is in progress and we will soon see what is happening on this issue. I would like to say that privatisation, for example, of oil refineries, oil refineries in Belgrade and the Kruševec Rafineria is one of the conditions set by the IMF for the extension of certain financial arrangements. No one was able to determine who arranged these arrangements. What does FAM Kruševac have to do with an extension of stand by arrangement with the IMF? I think that such a tied-up trade is something that had to be explained to the Assembly first and to the general public, what does these two things have to do with anything? As far as these refineries are concerned, I'd like to say that they cover the complete need for oil in our country. In the event of their privatisation, what will be their fate? Will the market be closed and opened, or will the privatisation of these refineries buy the market from other large companies or will the sale of these refineries be used to pump up NIS funds to modernise the Panchev and Novi Sad energy refineries? In order to produce derivatives according to European standards, it is necessary to invest about $400m in modernising the Panchevo Refinery and the New Sad Refinery. The minister has repeatedly said that the reason for this law would be to achieve better production, more profitable, to achieve better quality production, etc. I don't see any change in the law itself. So we need to create preconditions to provide these funds. I don't see what it's like to get those funds, so I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary, if he has an answer to this question, to explain it a little bit. Not many people mention a NIS employee. Surely the NIS employees are one of his strongest forces. Over 100 top experts and engineers have left the NIS in the past year. The people, the NIS employees are intimidated, five years of talking about reorganisation, privatisation, surplus employees, etc. In five years, neither this government nor the previous government was able to appoint a director, but NIS, as the largest firm in the country, is five years old. Director. I think this current director is fourth in five years. This shows a certain lack of seriousness when it comes to the relationship to such an important branch of industry. I would like to remind you that the privatisation of NIS can have far-reaching consequences. I'm going to say just one example that no one has ever seen before, which is that a certain facility could happen, say, in the New Sad Refinery, which is not in service for certain reasons, if someone buys that refinery and puts it into function, they start unintendedly using it. What exactly am I thinking about? Over the past few years, there have been a lot of words and a lot of concrete attempts to use certain refinery plants in Novi Sad to process highly toxic chemical waste. It didn't happen, but I'm afraid in case someone buys the New Now Refinery, they could use one part of those plants to process a very dangerous chemical poison. I don't want to scare anyone, I just want to point out that the state must have total control over what's going on within the NIS. It is very important to point out that if this law is passed, the full further procedure of what will happen to NIS will be moved from the Assembly and passed into the government's jurisdiction. Whatever happens later, we here as directly elected representatives of the people will have no influence, or we will have some indirect influence. Why hasn't the law changed so far? Why is this law really changing? One of the main reasons is that, under the old law, you were unable to privatise, or sell part of the NIS because NIS was a single company and the only entity in legal and payment transport. So you could offer someone to buy a piece of NIS, say 10% of NIS, or 49% of NIS. Why would anyone buy 49% of NIS? No, someone who wants to buy NIS will buy the most profitable parts – oil refineries and pumps, which every day bring in a ratchet money, and will not buy one piece of NIS, although according to this law that is now in force, which we propose to abolish, was generally possible. So one of the basic functions of this NIS removal law is to enable the sale of oil refineries and to move into privatisation, for which no one can see how it will continue. There are many reasons why this law should be withdrawn, a clear strategy for the restructuring of NIS and then appears before this assembly. As for some remarks, for example. Did summer vacations affect whether or not we were going to change our attitudes, of course, I made my point. I know this problem too well so I can vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18328	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word after the amendment to Article 1? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government proposes that this amendment be rejected. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Here's a word from the People's MP Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18329	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, while Article 1 and Article 3 of this Act correspond to the name of the law, i.e. It refers to the termination of the company, Article 2 is talking about something else, the creation of new legal entities. I will not go back to the questions discussed on the first amendment, but I will say that this article, as it is written, is legally impossible, contrary to other laws, and possibly unconstitutional. First, the first position of this member states that the obligations between new legal entities, which were related to earlier, will be shared in accordance with the founding act. That's not possible. Right, when it comes to the division of one legal entity, in the case of a legally regulated state, the newly created legal entities are in full compliance with the obligations of the predecessor, and they cannot be addressed to one of the newly created entities, to two or all three, by the decision of the person who has divided it. This is contrary to the Business Society Act. Secondly, in the last position of this member, it is stated that, under this law or this law, the removal from the register of the Public Enterprise of NIS will be made. According to the Law on the Register of Business Entities, it does not come under law, but based on other legal facts. The promoter didn't want to suggest what's written here, he wanted something completely different, but at speed, indiscretion, incomparability, unprepared, he simply wrote a legally impossible decree. That is why the Democratic Party has also proposed an amendment to delete this member, because it is legally impossible. It wasn't possible to fix it. In order to improve, we need to know what the promoter actually wanted by setting up these three companies, what they were supposed to represent, in which direction they were going to go. The promoter did not state it either in an explanation or in a debate. He probably doesn't know it yet, because he just called a tender for a financial advisor who's about to find the right way to reorganize. This law, Mr. Minister, is either premature, if it is a premeditated reorganisation strategy that will lead to further restructuring of the NIS, or it is too late, if it was a simple restructuring. And I repeat, attitude one and attitudes are the last legal impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18330	Thank you. The People's MP Slobodan Mihajlovic came forward and then Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18331	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of questions that the Minister of Energy has not given an answer in the debate on the abolition of the NIS Act. It is also likely that he cannot answer those questions, as well as the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. We're still looking for answers, and we'll probably never get them. But I will try to explain by one comparison why a large number of MPs, at least declaratively, were already in the beginning, but also during the debate, set against the abolition of this NIS law. At the third session of the First Regular Session in March this year, on the agenda, there was a draft law on the termination of the Electricity Act. It appears to be almost the same case, as with the proposal for this law to repeal the NIS Act. The law was voted without major problems, and in some ways it was a technical issue, in connection with the application of the Energy Act under the transitional and final provisions of the law. However, this illusion is easily broken when you look at what has been done before in the electricity industry. As early as 2002 and 2003, the process of restructuring electricity in general was launched. A clear direction of development and the movement of reforms in the field of electricity has been clarified. They are represented or at least defined the strategic interests of the state in this energy area. The public is fully aware of the need and effects of restructuring and rationalisation in all areas of Serbia's electricity economy. Also, a number of measures and activities have been taken towards implementing reforms, reducing the number of employees, separating secondary actions, etc. The result of all this was the smooth adoption of the bill, where, normally, the Democratic Party voted in favour of abolishing the said law, because it was in line with some strategic goals in the field of electricity. What about the oil industry of Serbia? Something quite the opposite. From the government of Zoran Djindjic, so far nothing has been done to improve and reorganise and rationalise business. On the contrary, the destruction of NIS was the only and main activity, which is now reaching its peak. The minister boasted in his ministry at the same time as the government, that it was a government without affairs. I'd hate to repeat a dozen of the affairs this national company's been having, if they had become national, but that's already evident. I think the media should write more about it. Several MPs have made clear and precise the affairs that are in clear figures absolutely correct, and the figures are millions and that's why I'm saying it's a national affair. This government is powerless or does not want to oppose it, and its characteristics in this energy sector are primarily one negative personnel selection, uncontrolled spending of funds and inability and a lack of will to prevent it. First of all, fast-tracking of the facility by buying non-quality oil, non-domestic bossing, creating numerous affairs, which I mention, causing chaos in the oil derivatives market. Serbia is currently the only country in Europe in which fuel shortages have been under way for several months. Tendensious non-application of the government's regulation on oil prices has caused enormous material damage to all road users, especially the oil industry of Serbia. In the first half of 2005, no planned amount of crude oil was imported, and the non-coordinated production of refineries created a lack of diesel and euro diesel, on the one hand, and more than 120,000 tonnes of motor gasoline and 80,000 tonnes of maguta, on the other. This is an absurd situation where NIS, on one side, is a pile of gas, for which there is no market, and petrochemicals simultaneously imports primary gasoline at high prices. If energy policy is urgently, and we see an attempt to change in a very fast and rash way, it does not change, we can expect to stop the work of the refineries by the end of the year. Does the Serbian government take responsibility for this situation and publicly recognise the inability and intricacies of its own personnel managing the country's energy, as well as taking the necessary measures to normalise the derivatives market. It is certain that this is happening, as I have already stated, because of the lack of knowledge of problems, intricacies, incompetence, or, on the other hand, because of skillfully extorted moves in favor of someone, and certainly to the harm of the state and all its citizens. The IMF directive, the EU, has now come in connection with the separation and privatisation of certain activities in the NIS. It coincides with the intentions of one part of the ruling coalition, the ruling majority, which sees the problem from a completely different angle, without seeing strategic and national interests in general. The result of all of this, one confusion, is putting this bill on the agenda by the most urgent procedure of three days. In this way, there is no respect for the opinion of the professional public, neither is the dignity of this assembly, and the government and the ruling majority in this House are jeopardising the continued survival of NIS, as well as the national interest in energy. Without a plan, strategy and vision in a "technical" and extorted way, this government is doing what it was primarily meant to impose, plan, strategically determine and effectively implement, respecting primarily national and national interests. The Democratic Party has submitted these two amendments, the other of which we are talking about, to draw attention, in an unusual and dramatic way, and in line with the Rules of Procedure, to the government and the general public in particular, to the consequences of the swift agenda and the possible vote of the bill. I would finally ask about the media, because of the public, since we have seen that some parliamentary clubs of the ruling majority have set themselves against repealing this law, and called for consistency, because if they are consistent in their discussions and performances, this law will certainly not be passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18332	According to this amendment, MP Zoran Krasic, and then MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. You'll have five more minutes, Mr. Vlahovic. That's enough, isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18333	The applicants of the amendments have rightly found that Article 2 of this proposal contains legally impossible formulations and I would not now give a detailed explanation, because that argument which was initially given about Article 2 which is actually a transitional provision that should regulate the mutual relations of newly created enterprises is legally impossible, but I would be involved in the debate over the whole concept of this law. You see, when he was here in 2004 in this National Assembly, not counting on the SRS, the minority unanimously adopted the Energy Act, then in the transitional and final provisions of this law there was no provision for the termination of the Law establishing the Public Enterprise of NIS, since it has a long name. Why wasn't that? Because it was too much of a bite last year or before last, it doesn't matter, adopt such a law on energy and predict all that can happen in the meantime. The second stage of this break-up of our energy systems is these laws, when it comes to electricity, that was one law, when it comes to the oil industry, that's exactly the law that's on the agenda today. The government reportedly made a decision on the formation of two public companies that practically exited and formed another company and on July 21st, 22nd of this year from this speaker, the Serbian Radical Party said that by voting for this proposed law, we are also considering reorganisation, transformation and privatisation. At that time, I pointed out specifically to the Minister that this proposed law has some justification in mind that the Law on Public Enterprises and the Law on Energy is still in force. I have criticised the extended parliamentary majority, specifically all those who voted for this energy law and as a normal consequence of such a law comes precisely this law that is again controversial today. At that time, the minister went out to replicate and made it clear that this was not a matter of privatisation, but of transformation, so that on the same day, we would have the opportunity to see on TV a report from the press conference, two ladies outside the IMF confirmed that they had discussed the privatisation of two refineries that day and that they had to go as soon as possible. These 15 days, the younger one entertained us with this, as the state did not know what might be privatized from the NIS, so when we did not know, they said, "Behold, let them be refiners." Today, not a word about it, but some complain that there will be no decisive role in any privatisation, because, as we heard, two billion euros is the total income of the year. If our gross social product is between 11 billion and 12 billion, then it's probably easy to determine that it's about 25-30% of the gross social product. Such a system, of course, deserves the attention of the National Assembly, and I only now see why someone once regulated the NIS issue by law with the powers of the National Assembly by extracting from the authority of the Government, which practically enforces this law. So there was a reason. The oil industry of Serbia, as it is given, as a large system, has its problems and they need to be solved, but they cannot be solved by principle – godfather, let me participate, godfather, let us send the IMF, godfather, let us send some institution. Because in Serbia, when the World Bank is heard, the IMF said, it's like the first commandment and the Holy Scriptures. I raise my voice against it. This can't be the first commandment for one simple reason why a smart host has a horse and a beak selling a beak and a horse keeping it, and it's working backwards with us. As of October 5th, the mania began, a simple race, selling everything that is the potential of this country. I'm not getting into whether it's for the best, it's really good, whether it's more economically cost-effective, if there's any greater benefit. No, our market is being sold out. And, I have to tell you, there was one regulation in one period that regulated the production, that is, import and processing of oil. It was a classical state monopoly and, of course, on the basis of that regulation later, to miss something small, at the time was Minister Goran Novakovic, and a commission was formed that allowed under certain conditions and other companies to be involved and to import crude oil for processing, but the exclusive right for processing had these refineries. I think you went the wrong way to solve the NIS problem. The wrong way is that there's a warrant, supposed to be a warrant from abroad, that's how it has to be done. Since there is such a warrant, then there is an illusory debate about some facts and some economic indicators. The fact is that for four or five years there has been no director, but there are persons in status v.d. Director, is it friendly, party or godfather compared to someone who wonders, who cheers, who dresses. If you have brought the state into this and if you mean this way to demean the National Assembly to discuss it, then I must tell you that all that you have heard today from this pay phone from these MPs... They are right, they rightly criticise, because they fear for their future, because they have experience, and it comes from the moment the sale started, the sale of something that is the strategic advantage of this country. Our market is destroyed, you know, open as a can when it opens, so be my guest. Then the government says here - we're trying to raise our production. How can you raise our production when the market is hollow, open, enter who will, sell whoever arrives, go with dumping prices, the market is given. We probably have about 1,000 gas stations, which are in state, which is privately owned. It's an excessively large number, even if you look at the dispersion of those gas stations, it's unbalanced, there's an interest in getting a monopoly by privatization. I have to draw your attention to another haste that was done, I think in 2003. It's the Excise Act. At that time, a member was given a five - year advance dynamic to change the excise duty in some types of cigarettes. It was a condition that two big, supposedly world-class, although I doubt they're world-class companies, I think they're with funds from here, but it doesn't matter, the state gave its monopoly to privates, the tobacco industry Nis and the tobacco industry Vranje. She still protected them by law five years in advance, by determining five years of excise duty. It will be similar with the oil industry of Serbia. If anyone thinks that privatizing the oil refinery is going to break up the monopoly, no, he's just going to move from the political mafia to the private mafia level and end of the story. That's why we raise our voice, and we don't trust the minister. From this pay phone, he said there was no privatisation, and that night those two ladies hold a press conference and say the IMF is asking to move forward with the sale of the two refineries. Our minister swore to us here, and I was still making an allegory that it wasn't enough to go to church to sing in choir, it should be told the truth. The man comes out and says there's no talk of privatisation. Two women, some IMF officials, say on TV -- we agreed, two refineries have been privatised since 1 January. You are going into restructuring and changing the oil industry of Serbia as early as May of this year. You've done it already, it's all arranged. Some complain about a strategy, that you should offer first. And there's this strategy, and it's just the wrong place to look for that strategy. That strategy should not be sought in the government, nor in the Ministry. It should be seen who is making the energy market in Serbia, the alpha and the omega of Serbia's energy sector. These are your informal centers of power. Again, I have to repeat something, maybe I'm boring some people, bring Serbia's political life into this room, and we'll probably have 50% less problems. As long as Serbia's political life is guided by private media, a system that gives more to advertise as much as possible or in this hallway, where it is asked by the president of the parliamentary groups to make statements about someone in the year n.e.c. events that will be in two months, then – they were shaking worse, and someone had finished their work. The Serbian Radical Party doubts and expresses fears that you can also ruin something that is Serbia's strategic position. We believe that only bad sublegal acts can come from the bad Energy Act. The fact that you may be formally right when you form an enterprise by a government decision, that you may be legally right when you are submitting a draft law on the termination of the Law establishing a public enterprise NIS, does not mean that we, as MPs, cannot look into the very essence of the problem. What's all this about? What are these side-interests? What's going on since October 1st, January 1st? Someone has given our market, as they say, to someone else. Is he from abroad? I doubt it. Like these banks, they appear by name and title from abroad, allegedly with some founding capital from abroad, and after two months, the capital is withdrawn and goes to defined private capital. That's what's gonna be here. Have you used all the resources and all the opportunities given to you by the Law on Public Enterprises and by other regulations to stabilise the business of the Oil Industry of Serbia? You didn't use it. I can even tell you that the Minister and the Ministry have no influence on the work of the NIS. NIS has no influence on the work of Jugopetrol. That's true, and that's what you should say, because some of Jugopetrol NIS feel like a mirage, like something that's formed above to lead a human resources policy, where former party personnel, where there's a big salary, to enjoy some functions, like someone else, who's asking questions, and others are finishing the job. It is similar with our other large public enterprises of republican importance. The railroad in that stone building, also some great experts, lurking party personnel. It's far from Makish's eye, far from their eyes are railway stations and tunnels, so they don't see where the real problems are. Did you take advantage of all the transformation options? You're not. Did you run smart personnel policy in these companies? You're not. Why didn't you? They're proof of their statements in the yellow and the rest of the press. People who are headed by these capillaries that are part of the NIS. Does NIS have its own single policy, primarily economic, production policy? No, even though they're waving some paper and some kind of project. How much do you respect that? As far as I'm concerned, no one respects him. You'll figure it out by setting up a partner to evaluate it, so he'll smart you out how to sell it, and you're the only way to sell it. That's why we raise our voice. It is not the only time to sell what is worth in Serbia. Sell something that's not worth it. It's easy to sell a good horse, and it's hard to sell beaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18334	The People's MP Aleksandar Vlahovic has the word, then the National MP Nikola Novakovic, and then the National MP Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18335	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I will try to make appropriate comments, more precisely, questions that I believe we do not have an answer to at this time, try to bring to the fact that Article 2 of this law, i.e. the law, and everything in the light of dynamics and the moment when the law is passed, and in relation to clearly defined strategic objectives which, as we have concluded in the previous debate, there is no. Therefore, a law repealing the NIS Act will be passed and three new companies will be established. Of those three new companies, one will be a stock company, and two will be public. However, a whole series of issues remain unclear or unanswered, and these issues cannot be subdued under the mere technique of separation of assets and obligations of NIS. In my opinion, one of the key questions is where are the stakes that NIS has in Petrochemia and in the Metanol-sercet complex. If we share one company in three companies and if it is known that, above all, Petrochemy is as a continuation in this abstract, or the next stage in vertical integration, I ask the question of where the ownership of NIS will be located over Petrochemy. Will it be a public oil transport company or will it be a company for research, production, processing and distribution, or will it be a public enterprise for transport, storage, etc? This isn't just a technical question. The issue also depends on the process of further restructuring Petrochemy continues to be privatised. So, if we make one decision today on the establishment of three companies, and if we do not have a clear restructuring strategy, then this deficit will also negatively affect those companies where Petrochemy is the majority owner. Or, on the other hand, the Methanol-Serce complex; it is known that due to the extremely high price of methanol and vinegar acid, at this point, despite the losses previously incurred by the Methanol-Serce complex, which seems to me, without interest somewhere around $60 million, this company is becoming very attractive. Where will it be: as part of a stock company, or as part of a public enterprise, or should there be a special company corps, given that privatisation is extremely justified? The next question is, how are debts going to be split, who's carrying the debts, the obligations of the NIS? Will these obligations be found in a stock company or will they be found in one or another public enterprise? For example, we have a Chinese oil debt and it's dominated by Jugopetrol. Is this debt going to be part of the stock company, since there's oil and oil derivatives, or is it going to be part of a public oil and pipeline transport company? Both have its advantages and disadvantages. If it's part of the traffic, it automatically reduces the value. If I understand correctly, the company for transport will be much more than one day, in six months or as many, covered by the privatisation process. If this is covered by the privatisation process, the value is down, and thus the privatisation process, or privatisation, is less successful. The next question I want to ask, I really don't want to use more than five minutes, is why at this point oil refineries are not immediately isolated into special economic operators independent of NIS. As far as I know, oil refineries in Belgrade and Krusevec continue to operate as part of the NIS. Deny me if that's not true. I don't know what decision it was made based on. Does the privatisation run by the Privatisation Agency not mean that in a status sense there has been the separation of one or another refinery? Therefore, the decision to privatise the oil refinery can also run through the sale of assets and all debts remain on the burden of the NIS. However, if it is sold as an entity, if the capital is sold, then it must be the totals that do not belong to the NIS. Why, at this point in time, when a law on the abolition of NIS is already passed, among other things, the status of certain parts are not designed for what will come next, hopefully, in the third phase of restructuring, which is privatisation. So, based on this, I tried to show how difficult it is for the MPs to vote, I'm not talking about the Democratic Party, there's no dilemma for us, but for those who are going to vote for this law on the abolition of the NIS law, how difficult and quite irresponsible it is if we don't have a clear strategy for what happens to NIS in general in the process of restructuring and subsequent privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18336	The word has a Minister of Naumov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18337	I thank Mr. Vlahovic. He has repeatedly tried to say and repeatedly repeated issues of lack of strategy. Of course that's not true. A very clear strategy exists, the government has brought it. That's the answer to these others. I already said that once. And the action plan has come up. It's done very seriously, I said, and in the final word I'm going to back it up. So the government adopted a restructuring strategy and for the NIS position in future our plans. Debts are proportionally divided by supersedes. That's the same deal. What do you think, that the months or almost annual work of the commission covering the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Mining, the Ministry of Economy, the NIS, the unions, was just to say -- now we're going into reorganisation, so it's going to be this shape. And the partial balance that has been done, and the debts have been considered, and it all exists, which the government has adopted. So the debts are divided into Successors. This, Petrochemy, Methanol-Serce complex, etc., their relationship is heading towards a traffic phase that will be an independent stock company within the NIS stock company. Oil refineries are set aside by a decision of the Management Board. At the next cabinet session, it is decided to add capital to them and go to the Privatisation Agency. It's already done with those parts of NIS, same way it's going with this, so they're already entering the privatisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18338	The People's Messenger Nikola Novakovic has the word, and the People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18339	Mr. President, my ladies of the People's Parliament and the gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Sokolovic, G17 plus has one brief and very clear position on the subject of today's excessive discussion, which at some point looked more like a campeic carousel, and on the other hand, if I understand Mr. Vlahovic's well-intentioned attitude, with respect for his expertise, set certain and logical dilemmas. Fortunately for us, the government has answers to these dilemmas, and I hope we don't participate and spin campequely, as it was tried to present ourselves. We have before us a law on the termination of the NIS Law. So, the basic technical law that has two members and has nothing more to do with it and has nothing less to do with it. It is clear that this law, in its essence, lays down legal assumptions for everything that has been said here today, and with which the adoption of this law has nothing to do with it, because, because of the public, the government has already made a very clear decision on the establishment of a public company for the transport of oil pipelines and the transport of oil products, made a decision on the establishment of a public company for the transport, storage, distribution and trade of natural gas and the establishment of an action society for the exploration, production, processing, distribution and distribution of oil and oil derivatives and research and production of natural gas. All these decisions are published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 60 of 2005 and enter into force on October 1st. To come into effect, it is precisely its foundation and its assumptions that have this law. Decisions have been made. Of course, based on the years of work coronated by the government, and I will remind you that since 1990 or 1991, it does not matter now, so over 1998, so in 2002, it has been constantly working on decomposing the oil industry of Serbia, because it is clear to everyone or at least it should be clear that it leads only to the market for secondary raw materials. So, eventually, one fine day I sell a kilo like old iron. I don't think it was anyone's intensity. Of course I can't help but say that speakers, therefore, whose parties will vote against, and one I give recognition to the principled attitudes, but I draw attention to others to abuse the jurisdiction of one competent government and perhaps the most decent minister, which is the Mr. Energy Minister present here, and I don't believe that there's any possibility of anyone saying or even thinking, because then we can't mention any pride, so it's a completely empty story. The crown of such stories in the NIS conversation is today's entry, that is, today it was announced that the province's Secretary for Energy has come down to regret... And my friend, I have to notice, that he doesn't even know the price of oil on the world market, it's quite a sad move, it's mainly G17 plus Mladjan Dinkic's fault. It's not because it rains G17 plus, and Mladjan Dinkic at least, and it should also be clear once already. I remind you that the negotiations with the IMF were closed in 2002, and what do we do now? So, don't call either the Deputy Prime Minister, or the Prime Minister, or today's Minister of Energy, and I will remind you also that the former Energy Minister has said and provided absolute support for this concept, for the time being, this concept of NIS decomposition, because she pointed out that the losses produced by NIS are absolutely justified by any restructuring. Is there an interest? Of course there is an interest, because it is primarily the interest of NIS itself and others, the states of Serbia as founders. There are no third interests here. It's just empty hints. Carefully listening to all the arguments that they tried to convince this home not to vote for such a law, it occurred to me and I suppose that these hours must have arrived at least one telegram from the NIS, employed in it, the labor union, whether individually or grouply, where one sentence writes – aman, gentlemen, don't defend us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18340	Thank you, Mr. Novakovic. The People's Messenger Svetislav Krstic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18341	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I will only read here the basic remarks I heard in my talks with NIS employees. It's mostly people in professional positions, and they know this issue well. First, there is no analysis of the situation in the area where it would be reminded of the reasons for the adoption of the NIS Public Enterprise Act, so what is the situation in the area, a critical assessment; then, there is no comprehensive explanation of how this sector will function in a new way, therefore, by abolishing the existing law. Then, there is no or insufficient explanation of the social programme, it does not exist or is not known that there is a partial balance between the entities created by the abolition of the NIS Public Enterprise. There is no regulation of the rights of employees, there is no projection of business for new forms of NIS, and they continue to work. The restructuring strategy is unclear. No privatisation model, inadequate asset assessment. There's a vague relationship between diesel and gasoline when it comes to energy balance. It has to do with, Mr. Minister, you may not know it, but I do, and Mr. Sokolovic certainly knows it. The relationship between gas production and transport has been undefined. Then, very important questions: which percentage of the share capital belongs to NIS employees and what about capital that would belong to public sector employees (enlightenment, health, administration, judiciary, military, etc.) and whether the share of employees should be allocated immediately or leave it for the next steps. Then, it is unclear how many workers will be in the future, how the professional service and the operational workers will be deployed, how much the relationship to any surplus staff, how many new workers will be admitted and what all of this costs. These are the remarks I made in the interview with NIS employees. I'd like to hear what the minister says about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18342	Thank you, sir. Excuse me, Minister. So no one's answered the amendment again? Thank you. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Proposer Radomir Naumov, Minister of Mining and Energy, will give the final word and answer a whole series of questions on that occasion. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18343	Before I say anything, I'd like to say that the material that contains all these numbered elements, the 200-page material, begins, if you're interested, in the social program that the union has done, so it begins with the agreement being signed, now I'm telling you, it's not in that material, but today an agreement with the unions for the collective contract and that through our ministry it's being sent to the government. So what SDP says, a collective contract, which is a very important factor, exists for NIS or will exist for NIS after four years. Secondly, 15% of free shares will be distributed to workers during privatisation. It was incorporated into the government's conclusion that the laws that should be regulated should be extended. So this second union key requirement is included, and the two unions participated in the creation and architecture of the future organisation as an equal member. Dear colleagues and MPs, the discussion that we had here under this law, especially from the opposition representatives, has characterized, in my opinion, perhaps a little harshly speaking, a foothold, which is an attempt to prevent the natural process that the NIS has been waiting for for 14 years, and thus to extend the unnatural state of NIS, which would certainly affect the most professional resources in NIS and affect further obsolescence of technological performances. Discussions defending the current organisation or defending state property pointed to deviations that are just emerging from the current NIS organisation and the way in which the state manages this public enterprise. The second feature of the discussions was the debate on privatisation, social problems, workers' rights, as if the way NIS is organised in this proposed case prevents the resolution of those issues, i.e. leading to the sale of NIS. Third, a good part of the discussion is characterized either by an unknown phase of the process of restructuring public enterprises or by the lack of knowledge of the authority of the Assembly, the Government, other ministries, trade unions or NIS authorities. Finally, one feature, which I quite understand, is that the discussions that were held here in parliament are often by content, tone and way of exposing similar to the discussions of this type that were conducted in neighbouring countries, but with a significant difference, because there was a discussion in this way when it came to privatising oil companies, not reorganisation. For these reasons, I might take some time, and as one debater said, since the opening exposé was shortened, and it was shortened because some of you wouldn't let me answer, it was simply such conditions in the O.R., which is why it was cut short. So let me just say a few words about reorganization, privatisation and some of the other things. I will not talk about the reorganisations of NIS that existed from 1991 to 2000, which are fundamentally different from the proposal adopted by this government when we talk about the Allocation of the capital of the current NIS, but I must remind you that even under the existing NIS law, the abolition of which is opposed by the opposition parties, and also by some of the presidents of the parties participating in the government, it is clearly stated that the Government has joined the reorganisation of JP NIS, and that the proposed reorganisation does not require the consent of the Assembly, but only the government. It's in the existing NIS law. The document adopted by the NIS Management Board in 2002 and submitted to the previous government, which was working on a subcommittee of the Management Board, which was then headed by a member of the Management Board and a member of the SPD, states that the material was based on 20 materials, talks with employees, as well as representatives of unions and that they supported all those positions that were to lead to reorganisation, in order to improve profitability and facilitate the organisation and resolution of the labour force problem, better use and control of capital, etc. The same material states that the new NIS organisation will be linked to the strict separation of organisational units dealing with basic activity from secondary activities, which are not functionally related to the oil or gas line. It is then proposed to form the following continents: the parent part, the production of oil and gas, the transport and transport of natural gas and liquid oil gas, gas distribution, refinery processing and transport and engineering. Thus, five companies under the existing AK NIS were envisaged. The same material also provides for a privatisation process for NIS, according to which the UO was to bring the programme within 90 days. And then the government did the right thing by accepting the IFC donation to hire an international consultant to assess the proposed reorganisation plan. Regardless of the negative public connotations due to this study, there was a similar proposal for the reorganisation of NIS, meaning as the subcommittee has brought in, with the difference that this study had some other details that the subcommittee did not foresee. However, as you know the scenario of what was going on further, it was the end of 2003, it was clear that the government had not taken any action in the departure. The Ministry of Mining and Energy of the government felt that it was necessary beyond the need for the NIS reorganisation process to take place as soon as possible, precisely because of the negative processes that the current organisation is bringing forward and it was ready to approach the implementation of this process based on all the above-mentioned documents. However, this was opposed by the trade unions and the NIS Management Board and the new Management Board felt that the whole reorganisation business should begin over, and this was particularly represented by NIS trade unions. The NIS Commission, composed of representatives of the Energy, Finance, Business, Representatives of Representative Unions and Management Structures, adopted a document adopted by the Management Board and proposed to the Government, and the government adopted this as its strategy for restructuring and reorganisation of NIS. The document provided that the first phase of transformation, i.e. the reorganisation, should be carried out in a short time and we should reach NIS in the form of holding companies and those companies have the status of stock companies, and three corrugated companies: exploration and production of oil, i.e. "Naftagas", transport, transport, storage and distribution of gas, this gas line, and the refinery processing and transport of derivatives. The special division was a non-coor with the status of stock companies, and so was FAM, the refinery of oil Belgrade and FAM-Farm, etc. Therefore, anyone who is well-intentioned to read documents adopted by the Board of Directors of the NIS, behind which the trade unions stand, can conclude that the reorganisation adopted by the Government represents an respect for the NIS proposal to the extent that the Law on Public Enterprises and the Energy Act allowed it. Namely, the proposal by the UO NIS to organise the current JP NIS as a stock company has been fully accepted by us as the Ministry of Mining. But such a law in cross-resistance, proposing that the existing NIS Act be abolished and that a new law be passed, thus regulating the reorganisation, exceeded the restrictions stemming from the Law on Public Enterprises and the Energy Act. And, then, given the need and as a prerequisite for energy stability, in order to manage transport systems under the Energy Act, as it has been done with electricity, the government has decided to in fact form two public enterprises that have this very function, in accordance with European directives on free access to third parties and independence of that part dealing with gas transport, gas management, and oil transport, i.e. a piece of oil pipeline from the border with Croatia to Pancheva, since we count on it to be part of that future pipeline from Constanta to Trieste. Therefore, these two special public enterprises were also established in that sense. In the end, I have to say -- the reorganisation of NIS, adopted by the government on July 7th, which implies the abolition of the existing law, is the form of an organization as almost all oil companies are organized. The form of an organisation that will have a NIS company has been proposed through all studies that have been done since 1991 for NIS purposes. It was a total of six, making foreign beings domestic. And it is not true that there is no company in the world that unites the processing, transport, research and production of oil and gas in its organisational structure. After all, look at the organizations of the first 50 companies. Therefore, statements – a quick decision, with inconceivable consequences of economy and state, are not included in the transformation of professional people who understand this problem, and therefore the vast majority of NIS employees disagree, or – it is the impression that people who do not know this area did the job, because they would not be the names that are proposed, or that the aim of NIS law is to break up and privatise it in the spirit of Burzer and Kumov privatisation, or that the speed that brings this law is something that causes doubt, or that there is no analysis, which could be heard here several times, or that we have no idea of what an organisation at NIS level will look like, is simply not true. They represent flat-rate and incorrect grades, and one serious and long-term job. Gentlemen, MPs, privatization of the energy sector is the inevitableness that awaits us and which we have for more than one reason to face. I have to tell you, it's not the same privatisation of the electricity sector as the oil and gas sectors. You know that our ministry supported the concept of modernisation of NIS that would precede the privatisation process on the principle of investment, through one concept of consortium, which would maintain the state's 100% ownership. The same principle would apply in the privatisation process. However, the public has also been informed of the commitments the Serbian government has accepted in a memorandum with the IMF. The government also fulfilled its obligation and decided to call a tender for a privatisation adviser, but not only for refineries, but for the whole NIS and the IMF, the very precise disadvantage of privatisation is only a refinery. The execution of this obligation is not conditioned by the reorganisation of NIS. And this law, which some advocate to remain in force, legally allows this transaction to be carried out. There's a question of what the government wants to do with NIS. It is concluded that the government does not know what it wants, that it does not have a restructuring strategy. I've mentioned it many times or we've heard it here from you. The answer, however, is clear and precise to me and is identified in the energy strategy and so defined as the objective of hiring a privatisation adviser. He will propose an optimal form, mode, phase and time for the privatisation of NIS, which will provide a modern, efficient and competitive company in the region, a stable supply of markets to EU-quality oil derivatives at an acceptable price for citizens of Serbia, which will contribute to the development of other branches of the economy; he will propose such privatisation that ensures the integrity of the national company in the European market, such privatisation that contributes to the realisation of the social programme and the increase of budget revenues. Therefore, it will propose an optimal form of privatisation that provides state control when making strategic decisions. The Privatization Advisor will be selected in a way that is chosen through a public tender for procurement and services, and therefore I think that privatisation in which the state remains the majority owner is what we support. So there is no concern that we will lose either our national and energy interest. Simply put, we talked these days, or a month ago, about a process that remains to me merely technically, the abolition of the law, to allow for the entry into force of the founding acts of new enterprises that the government adopted on July 7th. This process cannot be challenged by anyone, because it is a government duty. She needs to do it, etc. On the other hand, a parallel process about how to obtain capital that needs to enable the development of a national oil company is another process which, of course, has its own relationships, but at this point please do not realize that the reorganization of the preparation for sale. In addition, whether the sale is clear if the state says that in the privatisation process it wants to keep the majority package, that it wants the privatisation process to provide modern refineries and that there is a clearly defined social programme in the privatisation process that will monitor the implementation of this process. Is burazer privatisation possible if an international privatisation consultant is engaged, which is both strategic and privatizational, who will propose, after all detailed analyses, and provide an analysis of the benefits and disadvantages of the process and forms of privatisation, which are applied to oil companies and to us in the environment; it will give its optimal form, and the government will therefore determine. So they will determine both the shape and the way, and the pace and timing of applying the privatisation process. The same process will be the adviser to control the application, and the Serbian government will decide what form is best for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-22-0.u18344	Thank you, Minister Naumov. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has held a debate on the only item on the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 85(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Monday 22 August 2005, so today, starting at 4:00 p.m. as the day for voting on this agenda of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I also remind you of the notices I gave during the afternoon debate: the session of the Committee on Culture and Information is at 15.00 hours, and the session of the Education Committee at 1800 hours. The beginning of the new session has been moved for tomorrow morning at 10.00 hours. Thank you and pleasantly. [[After break – 17.15]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with the notice I received from the deputy president of the NS parliamentary group, and Members of Parliament 9+9, I move the start of the vote by 18.15.
