ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23515	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, more than one third of the MPs are present in the hall and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Blagica Kostic, Dusan Prorokovic, Ivana Kovacevic and Miroslav Zivkovic. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: – Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a NATIONAL STRATEGY against Corruption You have received a motion for a decision, with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the word of Proposer Zoran Stojkovic, minister of justice, want? Yeah. ) The word has Zoran Stojkovic, minister of justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23516	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you one of the perhaps most important documents that this assembly needs to adopt, if we want to go as an orderly and orderly state in Europe. The Action Plan to join the European Union provides for the adoption of a strategy to fight corruption, and the Ministry of Justice is set up as co-ordinator. We all know that corruption is an extremely difficult problem and that the fight against corruption, if we want it to be permanent, continuous and to enable this country to function properly, must be determined, first of all, by adopting this strategy. In line with the national strategy, which will recommend what needs to be done, action plans should be made for all segments of social life and, in that sense, identify places where corruption can occur, carriers of potential occurrences of corruption, what should be done to prevent it and to create the most important element, which is that corruption is reduced to so-called. A reasonable, bearable measure that does not endanger this society or its institutions. Today, we should make a decision that adopts this strategy and which we commit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, to make an action plan for the implementation of the strategy itself, to provide funds for the implementation of action plans. Then, to ensure, with the coordination of this ministry, the adoption of sectoral plans, means for each individual area, and the adoption of a law on an independent, independent anti-corruption body, which will take part in the work, means monitoring what is done, proposing and controlling all other segments whether they are acting on adopted strategy and possibly action programmes. Also, it is necessary for this decision to oblige all the authorities of this country to participate jointly in the implementation of the strategy, and an independent anti-corruption body to give this assembly a full report once a year on what has been done, where problems and what needs to be done. The strategy itself has several chapters: the introduction -- basic things are given, related to the strategy itself; Chapter Two -- what needs to be done for each sector; Chapter Three -- on the adoption of laws for an independent anti-corruption body. We all know that corruption is an extremely harmful phenomenon for every society. It destroys, in its essence, the basic institutions of each state. To combat it requires a long-term and painful process in which, with the participation of all the intended authorities, it can be contained to some reasonable extent, which will allow for the smooth functioning of the state authorities and the state itself. We all know that corruption occurs where there are opportunities for its appearance and where interests exist. This strategy foresees a unique action on both of these elements, to eliminate the potential of corruption, and then to affect the other, also important element - interest, i.e. that the risk is so increased that the interest in the existence of corruption is minimised. The strategy itself must contain several key elements, above all, to ensure effective application of anti-corruption regulations, prevention, which means removing the possibility of corruption, and perhaps most importantly, and also most difficult - raising anti-corruption awareness among citizens through their education and support in implementing anti-corruption measures. The recommendations of this strategy must be implemented by action programmes, where individual activities will be precisely determined, entities to implement them and deadlines to be implemented. This strategy gives a definition of corruption. I'm going to say it here, because I think it's very important, given the previous debates of these days that are happening right in parliament, about corruption, to know what corruption is. Corruption is a relationship based on abuse of public or private powers in order to gain personal benefit to itself or to others. It's a very broad definition, and I think a large number of these stories that are here -- whether or not it's corruption -- will fall into the water. You'll see what's standing here and it'll be pretty clear. In order for the fight against corruption to be properly implemented, and we could indeed, as a state of order, join the EU, we also had to meet the necessary need to adopt certain standards in this area of the fight against corruption. The standards reached are as follows: we have ratified the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Criminal and Legal Convention of the Council of Europe on Corruption and the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Seeking, confiscation and confiscation of revenue obtained by crime. Since this strategy has stood a little longer, it may not have been bad that it stood longer in the Assembly, another number of things have been done in the meantime, since May, since the strategy came to the Assembly, so the UN Convention on Corruption has been ratified. The following contracts have been signed: the Civil Law Convention on Corruption in the Civil Law Area and the Additional Protocol on the Criminal and Legal Convention on Corruption of the Council of Europe. This strategy sets out, first of all, assumptions. The assumptions are: the political will of citizens, respect for the freedom and rights of citizens, the reality, sustainability and consistency in implementing anti-corruption measures, the comprehensiveness and uniformity of the application of all measures, the coherence of preventive, repressive and educational measures, the periodic assessment of these results and the co-operation of the public and private sector, as well as of citizens. The objectives of the fight against corruption are known to all, how to crush corruption on so-called "Corruption". Persistent level. You can never root it out completely, but in order countries it is reduced to the level that does not endanger the fundamental functioning of the state and society. For the objectives, a large number of individual things have to be done in each area have been given segmentally. Also, our current situation has been established. Corruption has been found to be the fourth problem of this society in all polls, so it is noted in fourth place as a problem. We have to say that you never have reliable elements in corruption, but it's always about evaluations, polls and so forth and, as a rule, the understanding of corruption is more based on what I've heard or read, than on personal experience. A good number of our citizens still consider that so-called petty corruption doesn't matter, so it doesn't even report it. But it is evident that the situation is not good, because, according to all indicators, about 4 to 5% of corruption cases are revealed, processed, and around 15 percent ends in a conviction. So when we talk about these measures and their significance, I'm essentially thinking about those 90% things that aren't exactly recorded, but they represent so-called. The dark spot of crime, which is always wider in all countries than revealed. With these measures, we have to try that stain to cut. The strategy also mentions all the causes of corruption, starting with economic, political, legal, institutional, historical, and accordingly certain consequences of corruption. They appear, both in the economic sphere and in the socio-political sphere. In the economic sphere, they are jeopardising, above all, the market economy, reducing the social product, because one part that should go into the benefit of society goes into private pockets, reducing investment, increasing the country's debt and increasing citizens' poverty. In the socio-political sphere, democratic institutions are jeopardizing, and your debate these days clearly shows that this assembly is also at risk. They increase state funding costs, create citizens' mistrust in the institutions of the state, allow organised crime to spread and destroy moral norms of society. That normally leads to citizens' apathy. In the second chapter, it is true that all systems, i.e. areas in which action must be done, what should be done, recommendations for each area and the adoption of action programmes. Thus, the first chapter covers the political system, the judicial system and police, the local administration system and territorial autonomy, the public finance system, the economic system, the media and the participation of citizens and so on. the civil sector in the fight against corruption. Chapter 3 discusses the implementation of the strategy, i.e. the adoption of a law establishing an independent anti-corruption body. Maybe this will be the final and most important thing, because that anti-corruption body should have quite broad powers. First of all, there are: monitoring the implementation of strategy and action plans, co-ordination of state bodies in the fight against corruption, the application of rules in the area of conflict resolution of interest for officials in all branches of government, the control of the application of rules on the financing of political parties and election campaigns, the supervision of the work of authorities dealing with the fight against corruption, the development of integrity plans in the public and private sectors, the provision of initiatives to amend and adopt rules of state bodies, the regular periodic reporting of the National Assembly and the public on their work, international and regional co-operation in the fight against corruption. So this body will have really big powers. The congregation will choose him, and he will account for her once a year. I'd point to a few things that appear here as important. I say, while this strategy has been waiting, certain things have been done: the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, has been passed a new Criminal Code with certain criminal acts directly related to corruption. Is it a coincidence that today we are discussing a strategy to fight corruption during the debate in this assembly on corrupt behaviour in the Assembly? I'll give you one commitment that the Assembly will have when we adopt this document. It says: improving the rules on the financing of political parties, ensuring specific control of the compliance of regulations and their consistency from the point of view of fighting corruption. Two of the most important things: a law on lobbying and ensuring his transparency will have to be passed, to know what lobbying is, and what corruption is. Finally, the adoption of codes of conduct of MPs and employees in the National Assembly, with the mandatory provision of a ban on corruptive conduct, and the provision of its effectiveness. This ministry, since it was in charge of these jobs, was aware that we missed one series of years of transition and that we had to do some things faster than in normal transition periods would have been done in other countries, so a year or two are done strategy, then a year or two of action programs, then a year or two of anti-corruption bodies. We ate that time. We had to do these things faster. I can tell you, with the help of our partners, and we have decided on Germany and Slovenia, because Mr Drago Kos is a representative of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the EU. We've done action programs, so these days we'll get a general one, which will be changed according to what you decide, and special anti-corruption programs for individual areas. I brought it for my ministry and I know what needs to be done. When a working group, after adopting this strategy, adopts a law establishing an independent anti-corruption body, I expect that we will be able to de facto in six months to do what some have done in five or six years. For these reasons, I ask that we take part in the debate on this document, because it is extremely important and will be a permanent document that will be handled in the future. Any good proposal will be accepted and will have to find its place in the action programmes for the implementation of this document. Knowing your behaviour so far and having a proper relationship, I expect a valid debate and a contribution to improving the quality of this document.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23517	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ) The speech is attended by MP Zarko Obradovic, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23518	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I think that today on the agenda of the National Assembly we have an extremely important topic and that all MPs should discuss and take part in this topic, because this is a subject that directly and indirectly affects our life, our society, a picture of us. It is important that today we shed light on all aspects of these topics and how the state conflicts with this widespread social phenomenon. Otherwise, corruption isn't since yesterday, corruption existed, there will probably be. There's no society where corruption is gone, more or less. Even these EU member states, which have an extremely high view of themselves, declare a anti-corruption strategy, which means that corruption is also present. These experiences can also be part of a show of how we too can fight corruption. In multi-party Serbia, corruption was in the 1990s. Then perhaps there were reasons besides those rooted in humans, there were some additional general reasons that made the soil fertile for corruption. We've had sanctions, isolation since 1992, civil wars in the environment, about a million refugees. Then we also had NATO aggression against our country, 78 days and nights of bombing. All this objectively was one framework, a fertile ground for the development of corruption. However, corruption was not or was far less than what happened after 2000, when one explosion occurred, the eruption of corruption at all levels of state government. Today I will try to try on fellow Serbian lawmakers and citizens to, using official documents and statements, point to several examples that absolutely show, confirm that corruption exists in our country and that we have not yet done anything to curb this negative social phenomenon. I say this almost nothing, because we must not close our eyes to what the international community thinks of us as a way to solve this issue. Namely, in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, last night I watched the document, on page 44, where corruption is mentioned in our country, is the finding that Serbia-Montenegro's commitments to curb corruption remain mostly rhetorical. That's the truth. This motion for a decision is the first step. Of course, a series of laws have been passed that will sanction acts that make up the content of the concept of corruption, but this proposal for a decision, discussed today by the National Assembly, is the first significant step to curb corruption. Therefore, this decision should be supported, but also the content of the decision as soon as possible, as soon as possible, by all these other segments that stand in the decision, from law to other measures provided for. There's corruption. That's not controversial. Corruption came especially after October 5th, when, on the one hand, the public is constantly being held in favour of the fact that corruption should be contained, that it is a dangerous social evil, that corruption is that. However, the normative framework is not designed to curb corruption, to punish the guilty. On the contrary, such a normative framework was created that there were numerous cavities, which allowed people to be absolutely enriched through various types of corruption. I'll talk about a few topics here. One of them is a matter of public procurement. The other day, the director of the Public Procurement Administration in the Republic of Serbia made a statement that so far the Administration has pointed to a failure in about 80 tenders for public procurement, worth almost 90m euros. I'm not bringing this up by accident. The law on public procurement, which the previous government passed in 2002, was only one frame without a picture, which served DOS people to and how to abuse state mechanisms and probably obtain an enormous property benefit. This mentions a sum of 90m euros, who knows how much money it is. That this is not only the claim of one MP from the SPS parliamentary group, I think it also confirms the Council's report on the fight against corruption, and I will tell the Council a little later, and we MPs received those reports from 2001 to 2004. They conclude in one part of their documents that, in practice, the Public Procurement Act is not working and that the Commission for the Protection of the Rights of the Providers is not functioning for more than a year. This is a document from last year, and there have been over 800 complaints in that period and there is no real control of the tender for public procurement. You can think of what it's like, tenders being made for a certain bidder. During last year's local election campaign in Belgrade, the SPS was in a position to speak publicly about several cases of these tender settings, however, neither the media wanted to convey it nor the state authorities wanted to react then. They may not have appreciated that there was enough evidence, but we have repeatedly spoken, for example, that in Belgrade it exists and at all levels. We mentioned an example of companies that are doing a socially important job for children, important job for parents, creating and equipping preschool institutions, and then we came up with a few examples in Belgrade, which we then announced to the public, that certain companies get a job by offering the most favourable, read in translation the lowest, price for their services, that this job never ends badly, but that the City Assembly gives the same company a new job in the new preschool facility. You know the example from the neighborhood, the construction of a garage that's been opened who knows how many times, God knows how many steels and concretes are built into that scaler, and the price has been repeatedly raised and all of this to the detriment of the citizens of Belgrade, generally all of us. These are some examples that show how this job can be done elegantly, of course negatively, and people gain significant wealth. In Belgrade, we also had an interesting case, and we mentioned it in a local election campaign, but unfortunately it remained out of reach of the public, an official statement by the Director of the Building Land Fund, where he said the Fund worked successfully, that it had earned 83m euros in 2003, that the expenditure was 65m euros. The difference is 18m euros. The official report by the Belgrade City Assembly, divided by the city's Assembly, contains different data. The Fund is said to have earned 93m euros, spent 79m euros, the difference is 14m euros. There are four million euros left in the air. The president of the Belgrade City Assembly, our colleague, when I asked him about it here in the assembly, didn't know he was giving me a relevant answer. Or the way the Belgrade City Assembly works, an official report says that building a mile of traffic in Belgrade cost about 2m euros. Two million euros may be for one kilometer of highway, and this is first-class construction. These are official data from the Belgrade City Assembly. I don't speak without data or arbitrary. So, one kilometer of a street in Belgrade cost 2m euros. I think that says enough in itself what everything is done in our country and I think it's something that all of us MPs of the Serbian Parliament and all of us citizens should be. We Socialists were in a situation where we talked about this topic at the end of 2003, because then we did an analysis of the government's work that was at the head of Serbia and then we realized that in Serbia, which was not difficult, it was visible, there was corruption in the government itself, that the representatives of the government were directly involved in numerous criminal affairs that rocked Serbia's political life, that they were not prosecuted, they were not investigated in front of state authorities, because they were protected as white bears, that through public competitions and in DOS auctions they gave jobs and sold companies to people who were either from the top of DOS or close to them. Some of my allegations confirm the Council's report on the fight against corruption. You can see exactly, that and that assistant minister, that and that deputy minister. Anyone who wants to read can find a lot. The new owners were people with a criminal past, or so they laundered their money. By the end of 2003, we had a great deal of affairs, analysts counted 63 conferences involving DOS representatives. Different types of affairs, from abuse of official position, money laundering, arms trafficking, etc. It's gonna take a long time to count it all. Public information funds were flooded with reports of various types of corruption, whose participants were state officials from republican to local level, even MPs unfortunately, customs officers, businessmen, public service managers and institutions. Of course, there's been a lot of bad going on. All this suggested that the fight against organised crime and corruption, despite occasional successes, because it cannot be skipped, failed because individuals from the state authorities were in contact with certain crime groups. You remember the government's representatives called each other, but it never came out until the end, which of them was in Schiller, who was with members of the Surcin clan, who hung out, drank whiskey, enjoyed that kind of life and so on. Unfortunately, it is a time when crime and corruption have gripped all parts of society. The fact is that the government has formed many advices and expert bodies, but the work of these bodies has not been objectively successful, it remained in the second plan compared to everything that is happening. Reading last night's report by the Anti-Corruption Council, I have to tell you that I've had a sweet laugh, and I believe that when you hear what the Prime Minister, the other DS government, is doing, you'll be able to point out the subject of the talks at the Anti-Corruption Council. This Anti-Corruption Council, it was formed as a professional advisory body, and perhaps it wanted to make a move, to confirm the justification of its existence. There's a lot he listed, but it wasn't followed by other state authorities. I have to tell you that there are some precise findings, that it's simply all done in a way that is formally legally clean, and you can see from the universe that it's a robbery. To mention this example, how the government reacted then to the work of the Anti-Corruption Council. Namely, the main thing that was of interest to the Prime Minister at the time, which tells of course how DOS understood the work of the council, and also talks about them, believe it or not, so he says -- this is the occasion of the Prime Minister, he taught the members of the Council the lesson that they had come forward in the media, saying that they were members of the cattle government and asked them if they think the government is fighting or supporting corruption. Even then, the Prime Minister rebelled the citizens of Konjarnik to protect their rights and to prevent illegal construction, to say, identified with the resistance of citizens who opposed the arrest of Veselin Sljivancanin and asked why the Council did not respond. I will quote you: "He has made heavy accusations of the work of the Council, of which it is certainly the most difficult to identify the rebellion of the citizens of Konjarnik with the rebellion of the citizens during the arrest of Veselin Sljivancanin, believing that in both cases it is a conflict of citizens with normatives." It says that the government was watching the work of the Council and what advice should be done. There are a dozen examples of corruption that, unfortunately, were part of our lives after 2000 when there was a real explosion. I think the biggest crime, corruption, illegal wealth, was committed at the time of privatisation, when about a thousand enterprises were sold in Serbia for a short time, when a huge social wealth was poured out of society, a country in its pockets. Unfortunately, the government at the time, which is why I say unfortunately, because it is something that affects all of us, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, government, state, DOS, individuals directly participated in this big robbery. I have repeatedly said here as a folk MP what it looks like when privatisation is affirmed, in which a thousand companies have been sold for two (in the second reporting corrected by one) billion euros. Look, a thousand of the best companies for two billion euros, and in the 1990s, we Socialists were the subject of criticism because 49% of Telecom is, therefore, 49% of the value of a company, sold for a billion and 536 million marks. And here we have the situation that a thousand of the best companies have been sold for two billion euros. It's a huge robbery, I don't think it's gonna be exposed until the end. Unfortunately, one legal framework was created and everyone or almost all the people of the previous government participated in the robbery, each in their own way and at their own level, but it is undeniable that the vast wealth was stolen. I will also mention "Sartid" as a confirmation of it, and there is a claim made by one of the vice-presidents of the government, since, when they were replaced, when they finished their mandate, some of them were called out, and then they explained to us what it looked like in practice. One of the government's vice-presidents wrote a book, saying a session was organised in the government to agree on how to make a strategy to explain to Serbian citizens that privatisation was great, except they don't understand it and they don't feel it. Otherwise, it's a fantastic thing, except that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia don't understand. If marketing is good, then citizens will be explained firsthand how it looks practical. Since the time for this exhibition stands out, when I hear from you the second time, I will speak specifically about, in my opinion, the most drastic form of theft that took place in the Republic of Serbia, which is an example of the privatisation of Sartida, where one company was sold for 21m euros. The state forgave itself, believe it or not, that's where the figures stand, $1.7 billion. So she forgave $1.7 billion. The company sold for $21 million. I will also use the Council's report to support these claims. There's an example from the time of the former Socialist bloc, it seems to me in Ukraine, that one of the ironworks, which is three times smaller than ours, after the change of government, has been annulled by the decision to sell these ironworks and that ironworks has been sold six times more expensive than ours. So three times smaller and sold several times more. That example and a few more that I'm going to make in the second report, it seems to me that it's going to show what was the level of crime, corruption in our country, and how it was done and at what level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23519	Do any of the other representatives want a word? Yeah. ) Zoran Krasic answered first.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23520	I would at first, before this oath that we are all against corruption, indicate that there is no legal and constitutional basis for such a strategy that would be adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And as far as this document is concerned, he would be in charge of the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, we even have some laws that stipulate that the strategy is passed by the government, that is for some areas, and in some other areas, the National Assembly. When the law stipulates that the National Assembly adopts a strategy, then it has some legal basis, but there is really no constitutional basis in this area. Why isn't there? You probably know that the science strategy of military leadership, the skills of war, is a strategy, a book about the skill of war, and this can't be a book about the skill of war. What would be characteristic and what it looks like would be some kind of program, which would be the schedule for something to work on. In politics, the programme is a set of principles and goals. However, everything can pass with us. We are showered with democracy and everything my predecessor has said has just left out a few times to mention the word that it has all been done democratically, pro-Europeanly, reformically, to the purpose of Euro-Atlantic integration. Since October 5th, for everything we've experienced, we've had the opportunity to hear that it's a slap, but democratic, that it's a theft, but democratic, everything is democratic, everything from God, from God in Western Europe. Now I'm not going to move on to the text of a decision, which is bad. I'm going to go after what you wrote is a national strategy and I'm going to tell you right now why we're being planted here, because this is one ordinary coward's egg. It's being planted on us and then we're given a lecture on what bribery and corruption is, that it's an abuse of some powers, like no one knows what it's about. When you look at this strategy, you can write everywhere -- law enforcement, law enforcement. If constitutionality and legality and law enforcement cannot protect us from corruption, then this strategy cannot protect us from corruption. We have good wishes here, nice comments, what options, what interests, what corruption is. But I will say specifically what is said here: the assumption of a strategy - political will. I'm telling you, she doesn't exist. There is no such thing as political will. Why isn't there? All those in power are the result of some interesting arrangements by some tycoons, so they are government. And if this government were normal as a result of citizens and the electoral will of citizens, then the radicals would be in power. You have bypassed the will, obeyed the will of the tycoon, and you have a plot. Please, as far as the public's concerned, the citizens who are watching this assembly are probably shutting down the TV or getting upset. A campaign against the National Assembly is under way, a campaign against MPs is under way, a campaign against political parties is under way, and then political parties are sworn to fight corruption. Who's going to believe you? No one alive will believe you. Every citizen who says, "Look, they're banging something out there, throwing fog, dust in the eyes of the citizens." We, the National Assembly, need once again to point out that the government and the ministries, and the courts and the police, should enforce the law. Why would they do that to us? We invite you if you do not obey the law, if you do not enforce the law, it is the task of the National Assembly, not that it reminds you of what the law says for the second or third time. Now MPs can come out here and complain about how big corruption is. It's your fault you didn't stop her, that you didn't find her. There is no political will, these are fairy tales. This was ordered by someone from Europe, according to the minister, an integral part of our operational plan of accession is to bring something against corruption, not the Assembly. That's what you do with them, when you sit down, make a deal. All of your assumptions of strategy I'll skip. I'll move on to the targets. Look at this nonsense. It says the strategy aims to reduce corruption and achieve anti-corruption culture at the level of developed European countries. How can you write that? The whole of Europe is corrupt, there's nothing corrupt about them. You want proof? These experts who come to help you, they're all corrupters. Yesterday, Dacic spoke about a representative of the Swiss government, who advocates Kosovo and Metohija's independence because 10% of Shiptara lives in Switzerland and is taking care of them, and they are dealing drugs, dealing weapons and funding Al-Qaeda through banks. Well, isn't that corruption? He says it's a permanent removal of the conditions. Think of the causes. Okay. He says, transparent financing of political parties, elections, as well as election campaigns. Why did you sign it up? A few years ago, there was a democratic, reform law on the financing of political parties, the Council of Europe stamped that it was best. The writer of Alexander Dracun, that woman doesn't even know what the election is. It's the best law, and you want to change it. How can you change that? It's the best law, democratic law, passed at the time we were admitted to the Council of Europe. You want to change that. If you're in a fight with Tadic, take care of it on the street, and don't harass us. It's the best law you've ever passed. You're still saying, preventing conflicts of interest in the public sector. How many laws have we passed to prevent conflicts of interest, and you ministers are now saying that the laws that the National Assembly has passed are not good, then you are in a fight with Albianic, Labus, and Kostunica, you are in a fight with everyone, with Tadic, because all you change is your common DOS laws. These are the 80 laws that made the yellow ones here to vote. They said yes, we vote because these are our proposals. You want to change that. He says the state administration reform is aimed at greater professionalisation and transparency. We changed the laws, this Balinian, you know, two months ago, that's how it was about the government, the government, the ministries, the civil servants, all that changed. We have cabinets even, so there won't be corruption. Then, open and transparent planning and use of budgets and public control of the use of budgets. Here, Rade Obradovic suggested, and the National Assembly voted on one inapplicable Law on the Auditing Institution, and we have a budget inspection, we have the tax administration, we have all, the younger one controls it well. You say there's nothing wrong with that and it needs to change. I don't get it. He says, defining the role of the media in fighting corruption; so 60% of the media is a means of corruption. What's BK TV? It is the means of corruption of Bogoljub Karic. Tell me something else. What's today's list? The means of corruption of the Helsinki Committee on Human Rights. Major CIA, Grujica Spasovic, is preparing for the ambassador of the state where you are in power. Isn't that corruption? If there's more corruption, please explain it to me. Look at his articles, so can it be a normal newspaper that says Peter Lukovic, please explain to me. Could it be? I use other media. These reporters here, they're looking for some kind of a statement to blacken someone up, no evidence to blacken someone. It's all in the system of corruption of someone's great interests. To encourage citizens to engage in the fight against corruption. How do you stimulate them? To take the poles and start with the counters, because you've turned corruption into what's going on on the counter, and that's not corruption. There is no Hamovic, Lazarevic, Karic, Bebe Popovic, "Produced by Product", no Kolet, Vesic, Ceda Jovanovic, Aleksandr Vlahovic, Bozidar Djelic, as he is gone, there is no Mr Evre, Goran Pitic, and you came to power on that platform. No questions have been resolved here, no survey committee report on the agenda and where the corruption of Radet Naumovic, that of yours and that of the electric lobby and the oil lobby is clearly seen. Now you're talking to us here and now you're going to go out again and support the radicals and that we're right. You need to enforce the law. We fight to get us in a position to enforce the law. He says the situation of corruption cannot be determined. Okay, that's your point. Causes of corruption, economic and political. So how come they're not economic, Mladjan Dinkic and DOS have destroyed the economy, and what's left for a man if he's out of a job. Now let me tell you something, if someone's late on the payoff, one case I'm going to use yesterday, with a contribution of 5,000 because he didn't have any money on his account, makes two tax violations, for both is a minimum fine of 50,000 dinars, for 5,000 that a man didn't have in his account, well, he doesn't, he stopped his job. As soon as he got some money on the bill, he paid the man, they came and made two applications and he'll probably pay $100,000. He's done, little, tiny private, done, what's he gonna do anymore? That's what Mladjan Dinkic did, because his budget is sacred, and there's nothing else. Not to enter these institutional causes, etc., economically, and then within the political system, so now you state what should be done. It says, increasing the efficiency of the National Assembly's supervisory function. How can you write this, we're asking that a motion be put in for a vote of no confidence to the government, and you say it can't. We're asking to initiate the president's recall procedure, you say he can't. We're asking to discuss a minister's trust, and you say he can't. How to increase the oversight function of the National Assembly when you don't give. Furthermore, the introduction of the elements of the personalisation of the election of MPs into the electoral system. Personalized, here he is, Dicka escaped, the one who escaped, all on person, and you want to introduce some new electoral system, so you don't have the consent to the new electoral system. You have maximum personalization. As much as money goes away, that's how much practice has become here, ever since democracy shined, just overrun. Probably on that Markovic medal law to propose a new medal: "Golden Dika - Flyer". It is shared only by Members of Parliament who are changing parliamentary groups. What are you writing here, people? You say: "Matching the constitutional status of the MPs and the way they are elected; establishing clear and objective criteria for assessing the success of the government's work in the fight against corruption". See what paper can take. He says, "Introducing a ban on party activity for certain categories of functionors." Introducing a party ban on certain categories? Further: "Making instructions on the process of removing immunity from public office holders", and they haven't changed the Constitution. "Improving the rules on the financing of political parties." Then it's no wonder there's no citizen trust in political parties when you say there's a big problem in funding. I remind you, the Republic Election Commission, the Ministry of Finance, you're all controlling them, and some of you are persecuting them, you've continued the persecution that began the Democrats. Here, you're stalking the SRS. The money's coming off the bill, the game lease's going. The rent goes as a tax, you know. You're persecuting, you've continued, you don't know, you don't know that some judge in the Fourth District Court has misused the court's duty and he's taking off a completely different jury account of money. No, you're not interested in that. He says, "The adoption of the law on lobbying and ensuring his transparency." That's where you fried the soup. Legally, they'll lobby for large pairs of tycoons, and then you won't even have to warn Karic. He's going to say, by lobbying law, I want to lobby, I want something of mine to pass, so I'm going to get out of here -- three or four, so I'm going to get out of here three or four, this car, this bill, etc. Today, MPs are opening bills -- both foreign and dinar accounts of huge banks, and you don't know it. I'm just warning you on time. Every time I warn you, after two or three months, something jumps. He says, "Introducing restrictions on passive voting rights for persons convicted of criminal acts with a element of corruption." There, it's lustration. But that's why you're in charge of the Lustration Act. It's written. He says, "Introducing legal persons' responsibilities for criminal acts." How could you accept this, Mr Stojkovic? How can a legal person be held accountable for a crime? Explain to me. Here, the legal face is the government of the Republic of Serbia. The legal face is the Serbian Railway. How can the whole legal person be responsible for the crime because of the July decision of that Charancic around those locomotives, etc. What haven't you solved, that's with you? The public says it's corruption, and you keep your mouth shut. You haven't solved anything, and you're coming with a strategy to honor your word. He can't. Furthermore, he says, "Instituting the continuity of functions of the public prosecutor's office." As far as I know, the public prosecutors are invariable. "Training public prosecutor's office holders to conduct a previous criminal procedure." As far as I know, it's a permanent job. He says, "The transfer of the burden of proof to the defendant in the confiscation of property benefit." How can you do that? Explain to me, please, how can the defendant prove his innocence? This is poor Djindjic beating up stupidity, he says, "Let him go to The Hague, and let him prove his innocence." It's just another investigation into the origins of the property. He says, "The adoption of police laws and appropriate sublegal acts." We adopted him, we'll see. He says, "The beginning of the work of the Administrative Court." When will the administrative court start? He says, "Protecting officials of the Public Service Authority who refuse to execute illegal orders of superiors." Change them immediately. As you protect them, you remove them immediately, move them immediately, get fired immediately. It's in practice. The government came in and out of the federal administration were all expelled, court proceedings being conducted, for four years the case was brought before the county court, the county court didn't solve it, and it won't solve it. Here, Dinkic, 7,000 out, who's going to get the procedure? How many cops have been expelled? Is someone bringing them back? Not one. They just didn't want to follow orders. "The adoption of an integrity plan in the authorities of the administration and public services." That integrity will come to you. Then, the business system. The media says, "Improving the rules of responsibility for the public word." What kind of responsibility is there for a public word? Any journalist can write anything they want about you. What kind of protection do you have? What kind of protection does an individual have from the media? I invented my own brother, and I was the only one, what, am I supposed to stand trial with them? What they invented for Tomislav Nikolic, invented his apartment, everything and everything. Albian came up with Cuba. He doesn't know that Dragic and Dragica have nothing to do with it. He has the same thing, what does he know? He says, "Preventing discrimination against state authorities against the media." This is where you wrote down a dozen regulations to support that Shabic. You admit here that the state does not give information. He says, "Controling the application of rules on the financing of political parties and election campaigns." He's showing up again. And then it's said, "Controlling the spending of budget funds given to citizens' associations." Explain to me how you can finance citizens' associations? You're talking about involving the civil sector, and he's the most corrupt. It was created by money from abroad; 90% of the money for the civil sector was provided by Soros. They went to spy training, Segedin, Budapest, and some of your ministers in your government, only they were paid in whiskey. You are now throwing this to us, Mr. Minister, not specifically you, but your government, dust to the citizens of Serbia. If this strategy is adopted in the National Assembly, there will be no corruption from tomorrow - the devil! All that's written means - to enforce the law, to enforce the law. Is the opposition preventing the government from enforcing the law? No, moreover, the opposition stimulates the authorities to enforce the laws, so we also made an affair about Ericson, electricity, fuel, about wages and everything, about those golden spoons at the airport and about these streets in Belgrade that are being renovated every year. What Zarko said -- two million euros each, again next year goes for the same stock for a kilometer of 2m euros. You're making us vote for this right now, and everything out of this is full of findings that the government needs to implement. You in the Government agree to make an operational plan in terms of the discipline of your regional authorities and all those in charge of law enforcement. We don't mind here. We're even asking you to do that. But don't ask us to tell you for the second time - enforce the laws. Besides, on the basis of some of the affairs you were talking about, among other things, you came to power, and you haven't solved any of the affairs. It is right for citizens to be confused whether these affairs were real with some weight or just an EPP, in order to fool citizens once more to make democracy bloom, to move towards Europe, European integration and better tomorrow. As you can see, it's a little tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23521	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice, Mr Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23522	I'll just give a few explanations, as if there was a mistake. He says, "Why this congregation?" Ten days ago, I heard clearly that it was said that the Assembly is determining politics, and the government is obliged to conduct it. This determines what needs to be done, and the same decision gives the government the responsibility to bring in the action program and to work on it. So I don't think there should be any confusion. Personally, I think everyone should vote for what they're supposed to do to someone. In that sense, these recommendations are made. This congregation needs to determine policy for the rest of us to work. In that sense, this strategy is being adopted. When we talk about the government, we need to bring in action programs and still that independent body, which this assembly will determine, controls whether the other organs work. The problem is realisation. It's not a problem in the box. We have passed a number of laws, but we can all conclude that a certain number of laws, without complete and permanent work in this way, did not yield satisfactory results. That's why we all find that there's corruption in the increased scope. In that sense, I said it was necessary for the Assembly to do this. It's the assembly that has to say - this is politics. I say, ten days ago, I heard a unique attitude here -- it's the assembly that's going to set up a platform for Kosovo, and the government is only empowering to exercise it. The executive power should be exercised, and the Assembly should determine. In that sense, I don't think we should make a mistake here. It was a matter of legal responsibility. We have no reason, Europe is slowly introducing this. It's hard, there's trouble. I'll say that France has introduced and has a dispute that lasts over 10 years, they can't find a valid solution. The whole world's moving in that direction. We have a similar responsibility. It suits us, I say, a procedure has been initiated for business crimes, so he says: a responsible person and a legal person, and punish both. The way it's going to be done, it's causing dilemmas to me as a lawyer, but I'm saying that France, which first introduced, for ten years one object has been struggling, doesn't know how to judge it. As far as property benefit is concerned, it's this: we all say there's corruption here, sometimes it can't be established, the state can't find the data, etc., and those who are rich in corruption are holding back. This world, which we can look at one way or another, has found one solution, and it is this: there is a possibility that, when it comes to vital state interest, whether it's the person who has acquired the property in a corrupt way, it is necessary to prove how it has gotten it. Even the Strasbourg court made a few decisions and made it clear. When to this extent the social interest is disrupted, he has a dominant role in relation to individuals and then, if someone, I will take the example that was happening with us, he has reported a 100,000-month tax, and then you look at the villas according to Dedinj, etc., he will have to lay down accounts and prove where he came from, whether he legally acquired it. I can tell you that four countries have already passed the law: England, Ireland, I think now Spain, Austria is on that path and will bring it. It's obvious that the state with its apparatus is much harder to get some data and prove it, which takes years, and sometimes it doesn't prove itself. There's a much simpler way -- if you reported making a million dinars, explain to these citizens how you're 50. It's very simple. I don't think that should be taken as a negative example. I think it's a better solution if we bring it to this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23523	Replica, MP Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23524	Let me get this straight. Mr. Markovic, as president of the National Assembly, does not need to know, but those who help him should warn him. He's still in the delegate system, the one that doesn't exist under this new constitution. He often says that the National Assembly determines politics, and that policy is being implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia. He's a little innovated here, didn't say Republic Executive. But he's still in those waters. What the National Assembly does is prescribed by the Constitution. What the government does is also prescribed by the Constitution. There's no intertwining. We make laws and exercise control of the executive government. If the National Assembly adopts a declaration, a resolution, etc., there is a special procedure where the political position of the National Assembly on a particular issue is presented. But this matter is not for political reasons. This is military doctrine, by definition, strategy, some kind of program. We can't tell you how you're going to enforce the laws this way, we can go through the proper law that we adopt here. That's the first thing and that's a big difference. Secondly, you're talking about legal liability. It exists in the Anglo-Saxon system, it's so-called a joint criminal enterprise, which is more treated for civil liability than for criminal liability. But don't put something into the strategy that you don't know for yourself what it means. You've said nicely that the French have been pulling one object for ten years and they don't know how to solve it. Why are you pushing us into something based on such a negative experience? This is where it became an obsession to cowardly: "This is European and let's put it right in with us." Can you do that? He can't go to our place. This is a set of things, but I don't understand -- don't you see that your Council on Anti-Corruption is the largest corruption association in this country? They're ordering studies through government funds, so they're making some big elaborates, they're giving state money for it, and on the basis of these studies, no state body has even initiated any criminal proceedings, or done anything. How do they see the situation in some areas? Why didn't you think about it? If you need a body to organise a fight against corruption, then it should be within some competent ministry, and if you're making it look at the area, then the working body at the government, but not with the powers this Verica Barac has given herself. They're just a money launderer. Did you hear what they said a month ago on TV - Mladjan Dinkic didn't draw the funds for us, he drew something, he didn't draw any more, and we need those funds to order a project abroad, so they can check if it's Sartid, whether there was any violations of the regulations. We don't need such a Council to fight corruption. If it's just some politicians who need to direct the studies, then the Prime Minister can. I guess they have some elemental knowledge to channel state authorities in pursuit of something, and systematically direct government to what needs to be systemically changed in regulations. The problem is that over 90% of the regulations you have proposed and adopted here by the National Assembly contain corruption provisions, monopolies. You didn't avoid it, and here you're pushing us, supposedly, "honor, I'm going to fight corruption."
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23525	The word is from MP Zeljko Ivanji, authorised representative of the G17 Plus parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23526	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, it is true that the word strategy implies war doctrine. The national anti-corruption strategy also contained a word of struggle, which is also of war character. The fight against corruption is necessary. It is a big deal that this national strategy contains the recognition that, in addition to some important anti-corruption laws being passed, the fight against corruption has not yielded sufficient results. The processed number of corruption cases is disproportionate to the number of occurrences that are publicly indicated with suspicion. As you know, public apparition of corruption involves and processing. Otherwise, if there is no processing, then everything remains at the level of slander. Everyone wants to prove what they claim, and the authorities have to take what's in their jurisdiction. As I said again, any public information must be proven, otherwise it remains at the level of slander. That's why it's very important to prove everything, and for that, there are state authorities who have to prosecute every plea, because otherwise it would be defamation. No one wants to bear the burden of a slandered man or publicly called for something. That's why in the last 10 months, I've talked more publicly about some things and pointed to the problem of corruption. It's very important that there is an independent anti-corruption body. I agree that the Anti-Corruption Council has made up reports that are not high enough. He made up reports that were even unprofessional. Let's just say, there are a lot of things in the Mobtel report that are not properly defined in legal terms, that is, a lot of laymen. It's the same story with the National Savings Officer and other cases that the public has pointed out. I'm sure it's a matter of the National Savings Bank, but there are other cases that we need to prosecute. Also, what is very important is that the strategy includes three key elements: firstly, effective application of anti-corruption regulations; without applying the rules there is no fight, we will fail to end anything in this country and we will not succeed in bringing this country on the right path; secondly, prevention, which means removing the possibility of corruption; the prevention itself also refers to processing and suing where there are elements of criminal acts; if there is nothing we have done again; thirdly, raising awareness and public education for public support and implementing an anti-corruption strategy. Public education also involves merely pointing to preventive activities, but involves knowledge of its own history on the other hand. That's why I'm continuing this presentation, and I'm going to mention three years of modern Serbian state. One is 1878, the other is 1994 and the third year is 2003. Whoever doesn't remember history, he's doomed to relive it. Serbia became independent in 1878 at the Berlin Congress, but before the congress was held, Serbia committed itself to building a railway, and the railway would connect the Ottoman railway with part of Europe through Vienna and beyond. Serbia couldn't finance that railway. Then Serbia went to the international market and there received some money from a fictitious company that was then called the General Union. They appeared before the General Union of Bont and speculator Rosen, who bribed half the government, possibly the entire government, also bribed lawmakers. The government then did it, as they would say popularly today, without a tender. Already, during the congregation debate, there was an illusion of whether the MPs had taken the money. When the General Union collapsed, therefore only after the collapse, it was spoken openly, MPs were called to take bribes, pointed to King Milan and representatives of the opposition. It was 1878. It is indisputable that King Milan's uncle received money, about six million francs. The most information about the affair was given by Slobodan Jovanovic, who said, "Contemporarys have taken an insane understanding of who is everything and how much he received from Bontu. For historians, it's not important to establish the name mithopremites, because these poor people don't exist for history. So no one who accepts bribes will be holy or honorable. His history won't admit him. His goals do not exist, he remains a zero in history. "Let's go to 1994 now. The story matches the story of 1878, when an unknown Russian company buys a whole cell phone area, almost without a dollar invested and no tender. As the owner of the company, academician Bogoljub Karic appears. When we talk about academic Bogoljub Karic, we should consider several aspects of mythical character. He came with a sign, a red snow, which seduced his small village, a guru of Japanese profile, a popular karateist, who, thanks to Japanese philosophy, came into some self-awareness. We need to look at his history and his statements. He said in the 1990s that one of his family members of Janicija's third Karic, who was born in the United States, might one day be president of the United States. Then we're going to an interview with the NIN of that time, which has the title, "From the Roast to the White House." Someone who goes public with such a megalomaniac statement must be obsessed with power in his personal life. However, as it usually stands, the desire for authority is followed by a desire for glory. So he once said, "My inspiration, my desire, my goal is Nobel. "The third megalomaniac component is the desire to show the family's past. Someone who started out as a soda salesman, so very modestly, thinks he should introduce himself to the whole public as if he had some big family line. He said in 1999 that he had celebrated 235 years since the founding of the Company Brača Karic. Just to remind, by the mid-19th century, there were no companies in Serbia, but Karici argues they founded the company before the modern Serbian state began to be born. He wants to say that Karic is older than the entire Serbian state. Then let us remember who is the favorite philosopher of Bogoljub Karic. So, the pores of Japanese philosophy he appreciates, he thinks of a fire philosopher. "The next century will certainly be a sign of women, as Mira Markovic speaks and writes. "That's his statement. His fascination with Mirom, however, grew, he did not stop at it, but in December 1998 he travelled with her to Russia to promote her books and proudly said, "Is it also strange that someone should be a respected member of the Russian Academy of Sciences without being a member of the domestic Academy of Sciences?" Without Mira, the BK Foundation jury couldn't have done it. It was probably supposed to be the future Nobel Prize, which would be financed by Mobtel. The question arises who is Mr. Bogoljub Karic's favorite politician. If we go back to the past, in 1994 and 1998 it was probably Slobodan Milosevic. Who is the favorite politician of Bogoljub Karic in 2005? You said it yourself, but since you haven't heard it, it's Mr. Boris Tadic. Besides him, he was close to another businessman. This is what we link to 1998, when Bogoljub Karic decided to be a minister without portfolio in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it was. The only thing that may be controversial in the whole story, which was then signed in 1998 is the contract annex, against the PTT Management Board's decision and against the consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which gives Bogoljub Karic because he is a monopoliest and because he was extremely sad when the monopoly was taken away, gives him another 13% in Telekom Srbija's mobile phone. So he didn't have enough of this, but then he had to take some more. What is undeniable and which points to difficult cases of corruption, is what the public was informed about, so not yesterday, not the day before, but about a year or more, it was 2004, when we opened up to talk, or when we came to talk and when we got an insight into some documentation to inform the public about it, because the public had to know what was going on at Mobtel. Only one thing is a business-technical co-operation contract, concluded on 8 December 2003 between the PTT BK mobile communications company, on the one hand, i.e. Mobtela, on the other hand Mobikos Kosovo. This is indeed the most terrible violation of national interests, while at the same time illegally enriching Ekrem Luka and the Karic family at the expense of the state. With this contract, Mobtel gives Mobikos the right to exploit the existing capacity of the GSM network's GSM infrastructure and the right to enjoy the GSM network of public mobile telecommunications without Roma in Kosovo's territory, with an income distribution of 30% in favour of Mobtel and 70% in favour of Mobikos. It's just amazing. So, without a license from the government of the Republic of Serbia, he gives the right, the space of the Republic of Serbia, to make mobile phone calls to Albanian terrorists. Without the consent of the PTT, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he has committed to exploiting state capacities, through which Ekrem Luka takes 70% of the net income of the total traffic of Mobtel's network in Kosovo, which is estimated at around a million and a half euros per month. To remind us who Ekrem Luka is. He was one of the main material supporters of the Kosovo Liberation Army between 1998 and 1999, and was also financed by Ramush Haradinaj's party. So this isn't just a crime, so this is undermining the state's interests. According to the contract, besides other things that are disgusting in it, the "Mobtel" undertakes to grant technical and technological documentation, which is not only the secret of the "Mobtel", as it stands in the contract, but primarily the secret of the state, or the Republic of Serbia, because it is state telecommunications infrastructure. Then, onward, we have another pearl in this contract. The "Mobtel" undertakes to provide all assistance related to the subject matter of this contract, but also all other additional assistance and services such as assistance in the education of Mobikos and his staff. So Karic's company is training staff in Mobikos himself, but it will provide something else, and what is meant by that, remains only to guess, given that it is the Karic family. In an interview with the listed "Politicals", 29. 11. In 2004, Bogoljub Karic said that when he wins and heads Serbia, Serbia will stop being Colombia and become the most economically powerful centre in the Balkans. Is this contract with Ekrem Luke creating preconditions for achieving this false patriot's ideas? Given all the events that hit Kosovo and Metohija and all the misfortune our people experienced in that territory of our country, we can ask ourselves if it is possible for such a contract to be concluded in 2003. So from 2001 to the end of 2003, the chairman of the PTT Management Board was Boris Tadic. It's possible that he didn't know about it, but he was obliged to meet, because being head of a management board of such a company, which is co-owner at least 49%, which we claim isn't, that much bigger our stake, and not do anything inadmissible. He did not even ask himself for two years at the PTT Management Board – even three years, because he was Minister of Telecommunications, meaning, the almighty expert, professor of psychology, a graduate psychologist – on the issue, which he had as Minister of Telecommunications for three years and as chairman of the PTT Public Enterprise's "Serbia" Management Board, which at the time had 49%. When the new management came to PTT in 2004, none of the documentation came back. "Mobtel" wasn't nobody's business. Let me just tell you one fact. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Management Board "Mobtel" contains an incredible formulation: members of the board of directors who are delegated in front of PTT and BK Trade, the Brace Karic system, are familiar with the minutes orally. So, they don't get the records on the record, but the Rules of Procedure say that they are verbally familiar with the content of the minutes at the next session. That's what we fixed on the first day we saw those Rules of Procedure. We asked for documentation, and now I'm back on the subject of corruption, which is necessary for us to be able to initiate proceedings in Zurich, because we found the amazing thing in 2004: Karic sued the state instead of the state suing him. He sued the state to establish a percentage of 51:49 in his favour. Two months after the new management came, or a month in PTT, we took the countersuit. The countersuit was supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and it was a very good sign that it was moving towards resolving the problem of "Mobtel". That's the thing. We've requested documentation that we need to prepare defenses in Zurich, or attack to prove the whole process and prove that we own at least 80%, if not more, at the "Mobtel." Then what happened? How do we get the files? It's simple, they say, we don't, we've been delivering you the paperwork, the paperwork will be delivered in two or three days. Well, then we're going to the Trade Court, and we're looking for a temporary measure to get us the paperwork. This is how the trade court responds - refuses our performance, with an explanation that we will block the work of the "Mobtel". But it's not the first time we've spoken to him. Of course, we complained about that solution, it's been seven months, and the Trade Court doesn't decide. We asked us to control the payments, all payments that go from the Mobtel account according to the dependent companies in Brača Karic's company system, and that with the same explanation the Commercial Court refused. The last thing, which is the pearl around the Brača Karić system and the claim that it is simply not the customer of the "Mobtel", i.e. this stake in "Mobtel", the Trade Court said: we were wrong 11 years ago. That's where I point to what's unequivocal, that there's corruption. Now the question arises, with the knowledge that over a year ago we provided the prosecution with documentation, why nothing is happening, and I can ask that question openly. I want to put it just like that. Why not process that documentation we have provided, which we have and which unequivocally points to corruption, i.e. a link to the then rule, which was until 2004; and it is undeniable that corruption, plus a bunch of crimes; I suppose: abuse of official office, unauthorized signing. When you ask a question, why don't you arrest him, I also feel a little frustrated because I can't arrest him. I can deliver the paperwork, but I have no authority to arrest a man, I have no authority to listen to anyone, I have no one to bring in, I have no insight into the accounts of all persons, including members of the board of directors who have been representing alleged state interests for 2004. So I have no insight into that cash flow. I hope with this speech, too, I will be able to contribute to the completion of the file, as the prosecution says, because according to my knowledge, the prosecution completes the paperwork. I expect to contribute with this speech to the completion of the documentation, but I am accusing Bogoljub Karic of corruption. Let those funds that he has allocated to the municipal committees for yesterday's celebration, which was to be held for the downfall of the government, return to the citizens of Serbia, because these are Mobtel's money, it's an unpaid dividend, it's the money of all of us who belong to us, and that's that. I hope this country manages to deal with corruption and manages to solve the problem and the knot that burdens us, given the historical importance of the problem that has burdened this country since 1878 and the General Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23527	The word is made by MP Jovan Palalic, an authorised representative of the DSS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23528	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this particular discussion that has been led so far confirms why it was important to discuss the national anti-corruption strategy in the National Assembly. The question of the need for political will to fight corruption has been raised and the question is where the political will must be established. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest body of the legislative authority, as a place where representatives of Serbian citizens are, is a place where political will to fight corruption is determined, and in all previous exhibitions it could be clear that there is no political party, no representative of citizens here who are not against it. That is why it is important for citizens of Serbia to send such a message from the National Assembly, a clear message from all political representatives, MPs in the Serbian Parliament, we are in favour of fighting corruption, we are in favour of speaking publicly about it. In this way, we point out to state authorities that they are doing their jobs and that what they are is the fact that corruption exists in Serbia, and that it must be fought by the work of competent state authorities and institutions. What was said in the Performance Study when we got it is that the key challenge for Serbia-Montenegro is to fight organised crime and corruption in the coming period. It is not just that corruption undermines public morality, negatively affects the market economy, that it destroys institutions in every way possible. What we, as MPs, know through contact with citizens, is that citizens do not trust the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of suspicions relating to the existence of corruption and the corrupt work of individual officials in state bodies. That's a fact. Right here, from this place, from the National Assembly, these discussions that suggest that certain state authorities do not process certain procedures, and now is an opportunity to send a message to the citizens of Serbia who chose us that their representatives, the National Assembly, clearly and resolutely support the fight against corruption. What is in the discussion so far stands out. But one thing in this national strategy is not mentioned, which speaks of its comprehensiveness, which speaks of how much this national strategy, when developed as a national plan, will be concrete, comprehensive and affect all state authorities in the Republic of Serbia and how seriously it will get into that kind of fight, as it is said here, in every workplace, through concrete integrity plans. This integrity plan, as it says here, is a document that will be brought to all state and local authorities, which will cover all institutions and every job, and based on this integrity plan, an assessment of how much this job is and how corrupt the procedures are real and what means to fight corruption will be carried out. When you look at it, I think this is the most important part of this national strategy. If such a detailed entry into the fight against corruption, that each job is covered by an analysis, every work operation, every employee who works there, is a long-term process, but there is no doubt that this will get into that kind of fight against corruption, that this will restore citizens' confidence in institutions. It cannot be said that there was no fight against corruption in the previous period. Here, in the past months, we have had different forms of this struggle, different kinds of arrests in all institutions, and in the judiciary, and in health care, and that this state shows that there is a political will to fight corruption and where it seemed untouchable in the previous period. It turns out no one can be above the law. Of course, there are criticisms that in some segments and in some cases it has not been done, and this very National Assembly and this speaker is the place to send a message to those state authorities that, through a report submitted by the anti-corruption body formed here in the National Assembly, they will always talk about why certain procedures are not being processed and why the fight against corruption is not comprehensive. What is important, I think, in the previous period here in the National Assembly, is a series of important laws, which are according to their nature anti-corruption, and that must be clearly said here; and in the area of justice, we have the Law on the Prosecution, the New Law on the Executive Procedure, the Law on the Protected Witness, the Organisation and the fight against organised crime; we have a number of important laws in the field of state administration, which are now tasked with preventing corruption in the state bodies that were identified in this way. We have the Law on the Protection of Competition, we have the Law on the Ombudsman, a series of laws have been passed here. Of course, the issue of implementation, that's what they always respect with our right. The issue of implementation is the most important issue we have to deal with in the next period and we need to see what the government action programme will bring on the basis of this strategy when it comes to a concrete fight against corruption. I am not pessimistic when it comes to the implementation of this national strategy, precisely because it is adopted in the National Assembly, and it is good that the anti-corruption body will form here, and it is good that the National Assembly will submit an annual report, because all of us as MPs in contact with citizens we have information about the occurrences of corruption in a number of state institutions. The body formed by law, as foreseen here in the national strategy, will have the obligation to coordinate the full work of all authorities in the fight against corruption and to submit reports to the National Assembly. We expect very quickly, as promised by the minister, that the action plan will be done, that the law will be passed, that an anti-corruption body will be elected and that all the competent state authorities will move to fight corruption as soon as possible. I absolutely support all the criticism that has been sent from this pay phone when it comes to the fact that certain actions have not been processed. It's important that the MPs come out here and talk about it. It is important that state authorities know that the oversight of the National Assembly exists this way, because we are talking to citizens of Serbia who are following all this. The DSS supports this national strategy, will vote for it and with great attention we will monitor the adoption of an action programme and legislation that monitors this national strategy, and we will always point from this speaker to the phenomena of corruption in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23529	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to work by registered speakers. I would like to inform you that according to Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, pending the opening of a search for a word in writing, with a number of MPs, were submitted by SRS, SPS, G17 plus, DSS and two independent MPs. We're going in business. First, the word has the MP Branislav Stevanovic, five minutes under Article 93, then MP Aleksandar Vukic, then MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, also five minutes under Article 93. Here you go, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23530	Ladies and gentlemen, for more than 15 years, we've been facing a very bad social phenomenon, which is corruption. Of course, in all parts of our society is represented, so this strategy will certainly contribute, and all the laws that have been passed and should be passed on to this area. The October revolution of 2000 was very promising, the people believed that there would be radical changes, that all directors, all ministers, all political faces, and those from the economy would be punished, would be brought in to be punished. But what did it do? Namely, only thieves teamed up and nothing else in that direction was done. It is also known that we are one of the most corrupt countries in the world, and all these laws and the national institutions themselves for reviewing, and these laws that have already been mentioned, and another number of laws, should be regulated. At present, the largest extent we have corruption in the economy, especially we need to stress privatisation. There's little time to list all the enterprises of Jugormedia, the Prince of Milosha, etc., and all those irregularities. There's little time to talk about it. However, what should be mentioned about privatisation? That's who's all about the criminal, which is the director of the company before, the state-owned enterprise, then the private company that buys the company, the representative of the Privatisation Agency and, unfortunately, the union representatives themselves are involved in all of this. It should also be noted that there is a lot of corruption in health care, and in sports, which should be a law on sports to regulate, and in the privatisation of sports societies itself. There should also be a lot of our citizens involved in this process. This strategy will provide guidance to other laws to be passed, and I am particularly pleased that there will be punishment in the Lazarec municipality for people who have broken the law, and that primarily applies to the coal mafia that has dominated for years. It is also worth mentioning the construction mafia that has been harassing in Lazarevec for years. I am convinced that the Lazarec municipality is one of the most corrupt in the country, because the budget of the municipality is the second of all municipalities in Serbia. Therefore, interests are high, there are many crimes and irregularities. Of course, this strategy should provide guidelines for the adoption of laws and should find the best methods and ways to combat crime and corruption. The law on the prevention of money laundering, then the state audit institution, etc., will make a great contribution. The task of the government of Serbia and of the MPs is, gentlemen, that we provide our fellow citizens with one equality, the same conditions in each place, that every child, from rich and poor, has the same conditions when it comes to treatment, sports, and especially when it comes to the employment of our citizens, that there is some equality and some objectivity. Unfortunately, in all this we have a big problem that the state is politicised and for now, unfortunately, it must be recognised that we are mostly politically doing employment, meaning political people from parties, where the party has the authority in the municipality, they are thus hiring its people. There's no equality, absolutely nothing. I cite an example of the Lazarec municipality, where we have five and more family members where no one is employed, and we have families where everyone is employed. So that's where we have to look. Also, law enforcement should be implemented in the media. That there's corruption in the media, I'm sure there is. (President: Time. I'm done. Also, it should be noted that the media themselves should make this great contribution... (Lowers from the O.R.: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23531	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Vucic, then the MP Ljiljana Nestorović, then the MP of the people Nemanja Sarović, unless there was a replacement, will inform me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as a kind of political declaration, you put a national strategy to fight corruption on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How important it is for the government to see that there are no representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here. Of all the ministers, the great anti-corruption fighters, they are present here, respected citizens of Serbia, in total zero. People have better things to do, they want so much to fight corruption, they don't know what to do from a whole other job. About the national anti-corruption strategy, as you predict here, I see nothing but what you might call a political pamphlet. There are no words you can't agree with. Each of us is to effectively oppose corruption. I have to ask you, what doesn't say in the Criminal Code? We have a group of crimes against corruption, which is not handled accordingly? Since 2002, we've had new crimes in the area of corruption. Who's being prosecuted for these crimes? Three, two and two in the past three years, in those crimes, there have been judicial verdicts in all of Serbia. Will you tell me there was no bribery in Serbia, no corruption in the previous period? Corruption has existed for centuries, not in the last ten, 15 years, as some say. Since man exists, it exists as a phenomenon and will always exist. But it's our job to get 30th place in the world from 113rd place in the fight against corruption, and then we can say that we belong to the order of decent countries, not to the order of the most rude and corrupt countries, as we are today. I will be quite objective, aside from our political conflicts and our various political beliefs, I will not say that just belonging to one political party means that it is corrupt, etc., I can say for the party's leadership, not for ordinary members of ordinary people. Like some other members at the lowest level, they don't have to be much more honest, even though they belong to another party. Today we have in municipalities all over Serbia, wherever you go, the key question is, you all know it: and where am I? Whatever you suggest, does the land, the factory, the hotel, the motel, the cleanliness, anything, the key question is -- yes, master, and where am I? It's going from a local level. You're all nodding and you all know it, and it's like that everywhere. In time, did Verice, one of our men, for 50 marks, when we found that kind of corruption and found it, call the police, file a criminal report. I don't know how he ended up after the man got fired. That was somewhere in 1998 or 1999. So it would be good if we had such examples much more. You have certain places in our country that you know are all corrupt. Don't ask me about these institutions, except the cleaning lady, the porter and some secretary, come into the Property Directorate - everyone. Enter city building land, city hall, everyone. I'm asking you, is it possible for a best man to get a major job in Germany? Born godfather. Master, if it's any offer you want, the best man can't get a job, I'll tell you his name and last name, don't worry, you know I've never been afraid. Dragan Kopčalic, best man Bojan Stanojevic. What does everyone else keep quiet about? The Montera company is doing all the work. Is that true? That's right. What are you guys doing? Can the best man do those jobs? It's nice that the best man isn't a button. It's nice that he's working somewhere, but don't do everything. Then pretend like you don't know what's going on, and nobody knows what's going on and what's going on. I'll try to be objective, we'll face that problem in the future when power changes. We entered what you call a transition, into the privatisation process. As part of the privatisation process, it is difficult to do everything for the state to do without major corruption. You know how it goes -- you give me something according to the legal rules, I'm a good million, of that million I'll give you 200 or 300,000, and we're all satisfied, and the law isn't broken. Is that how it works? We all know that's how it works. For every factory, here, I'll give you the privatisation, you run it this way, we see how good you are, the rest you'll give to that man, he'll take over to carry on this or I don't know who else. Or he'll buy on someone who doesn't have his last name two, three or five apartments in Belgrade, who will betray and live his entire life. We all know that this is the way things are done in Belgrade, not only in Belgrade but everywhere in Serbia. I'm not saying that there are no other countries in the world, of course there are, but let's see if we can narrow it down to some reasonable and rational measure. In Belgrade, you have a city traffic company, you file a criminal report, they reject it, now I've filed it again, so I'll wait, see what they're going to do, I'll file it forever, and supplementing the criminal charges I'll endure forever. Two Vemus and Patrimus companies, with the same characteristics, I don't understand those parts for GSP, but they've introduced me to the same characteristics, so they're the same amount. One bid is 12 million, and another bid is 25 million. They accept this 25 million. Nothing, difference 13 million, what difference does it make which difference is 13 million. It's just one small job, I didn't make a big deal. What two million euros comes a mile away, they just change it and can't come more than 400-50,000. He can't, and you can see he can, because everyone has to put something in their pocket. When searching for the Zemun municipality something in the safety belt around the highway, they say - the seat belt, it can't. In New Belgrade, "Mercur" can be in a protective belt, so pumps can be in a protective belt, anything can be done. Why? Because the commission is huge, filled their pockets. Like I said, they're no longer interested in pockets, but now they're loading shovels into trucks, clicking money, and they have what they're doing. What's the scam? There Krasic was absolutely right when he spoke. In 2000, they launched a fierce campaign against all political opponents, as those corrupt criminals, some people were convicted of giving bonuses to workers, and they had none of them, they didn't even see them, they gave bonuses to workers to survive in hard times, the C Market, the Pecabet, a thousand, two thousand dinars a month. That's why people are convicted, prosecuted, bullied. These days and yesterday at Belgrade Airport only in the construction of a VIP salon and renovation of an airport building, according to what the MUP established, the extraordinary officers led the action, 18m euros in theft, not dinars, 18m euros. What happened? Nothing to anyone. Out of 18 million euros in theft, what do we have today? We don't have anything. In addition to being an objective state, some kind of initial accumulation of capital that is happening today in Serbia, I would say this is the second round of capital accumulation, one comprehensive kidnapping of several private citizens. It's hard to avoid facing major corruption in that period. That's true and there's no doubt about it, but it has to be opposed as much as possible. It's impossible to clean up until the end, but as much as possible, it has to be done. On the other hand, you watch some wear watches of five, 10, 15, 20,000 euros, which come out to you and tell you that they are the most honest, the most cultured, the most decent and large Europeans. It's not a matter of taking it from a friend in one day, no, it's their watches. We have had a picture and an opportunity for those who have led the reforms in this country to take us to European Serbia, to have on their hands a 120,000-euro watch, a "shafhausen turbine", hand-made, those to whom you build monuments. They received a 120,000-euro watch, ordered it at dinner with Milo Djukanovic of a businessman, who has already sued me six times. That photo exists, that watch is visible on his hand the moment he forgot, he took off his short sleeves to open some cycling trail. Then, urgently, all the television footage was withdrawn, and there was only one photo left to prove it. Now I ask you, what are we talking about here? Are we going to chase the biggest criminals or are you going to chase people and announce to the big door that a doctor has received 100 euros for this or for that? It is a crime, and it needs to be answered for. Don't embarrass anyone about it in front of seven or eight million people without embarrassing those who stole millions of euros from here, tens of millions of euros in this country. No crime can ever be justified. And one dollar when someone steals, he's a criminal. The difference between the one who stole one dinar and the one who stole a million is just what price criminals are for. There's no difference. I'm asking you if it's possible that the biggest criminals are the ones who may not have enough to survive, who want to feed their children, so they take 100 euros, or the bigger criminals are the ones who take 100m euros. I don't see anyone chasing. Show me that 100m-euro thing about how someone's chasing him. Tell me how it's possible for someone to make 100 million euros. Explain that math to me. What's that guy's mind, what's he doing, what's he doing, so he's got 100 million euros, so he got it fair and square, he made a fair profit? What have we done in the state seriously in any way? We're nothing and nowhere, in any way. When we have a city official moving to one part, there's a gasification, and a sewerage, and a road to that house and whatever you want. These at the Ministry of Capital Investments, so there is no assistant minister who is not "hard" several hundred thousand euros, because they took something at every inch. What about the locomotives? The locomotives came in, they're in trouble, "the hooligans in Sweden wrote them out with graphites." Did you see that? They were some fancy hooligans. Ordered me those trains six or seven months ago, public procurement, emergency, it's got to be. So, orders from a company that gets butics sweaters and companies that get butik sweaters bring locomotives to Serbia. Then the locomotives arrive in Serbia, dislocated, excavated, not in decent condition, so now they're moving them. Looks like they're not good sweaters for locomotives. Then they say -- they used to steal locomotives, and this one says -- it wasn't me, my mother, the other one was stealing locomotives. Is there anything less to steal? Let them take something less, so they don't see it as locomotives. Get some sweaters, all right, get some shoes, but don't take the locomotives. Guys, hold on a second, be careful. Only planes and locomotives steal. Airplanes, locomotives, airports, there's nothing less, just big ones. The bigger the mass, the better. You're talking about a national anti-corruption strategy here. I don't understand health care, I have no idea, except I don't like to go to a doctor, and all I have to do is take the kids from time to time to the doctor, but I don't know anything about the health system. I couldn't listen very carefully, nor understand what Paja Momchilov was saying, or Bana Blazic, or Milet Poscurica, or the others. Last night, people from several sides call me and say, "What are you talking about in the Serbian Parliament, fighting corruption?" They say - you have now inaugurated corruption as a way and a system of functioning in this country, you have legalized corruption. What are we, respected citizens, or the ruling majority of what she adopted? You've adopted that the doctor works for the state, the state hospital, or the health care home, and he works half for himself this afternoon, half for whoever brings him the job. Now the chief or whoever's there - I made a deal with him, you go to that specialist, no one else can work, and they'll get used to it, fill their pockets any way you want. You said it was great and it was fair, and the citizens were totally crazy and silly. I can't thank people with whiskey and coffee anymore because they've cured someone closest to them. Now they have to wear a thick envelope. What kind of control is that now? Even the money in the envelopes won't be enough anymore. He can't even fit into Dinkic's jeans as much as he needs to wear to the doctors for that right now. It's not the doctors' fault. Your honorary doctors have fought this kind of corruption here. Do you know that Paya Momchil's man who made the most births in Serbia? I don't know what you're laughing at. The most children in our country have been brought. He tells you, I tell you publicly, and you say, he's known as a doctor who won't even receive a gift. My son was born, my daughter was born; he will not give the doctors anything. Everyone knows that, and a man like that comes out here and tells you what you're doing, how you inauguration and legalize corruption. You are silent and voting for the idiotic amendments, laughing and applauding in the end, because you have agreed on a favor from one of these parties in this House. The people need to know that you've introduced corruption to a large door in this country. Good afternoon, Mr. Secretary. This is just a political declaration, and this was the best way to stop corruption. You didn't listen to people, you could ask everyone, ask every mother to ask, and most of them in Serbia who know about Dr Momchilov, you could ask, so they would tell you, listen to a smart and honest man about it. But you didn't want to listen, because you made a deal with some thieves, because thieves need to be loaded in shovel trucks. That's why it's time for a change. I apologize to the other radicals for taking so long. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, but make sure that this is precisely why and because this remains a political declaration, because prosecutors are doing nothing, and because courts can't act on it and because there's no way in the country of will to go after 100 million euros, people are being prosecuted for 100 euros, and that's the main news in the public television and all the other television, so people want to change, so people want radicals in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23533	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Miroljub Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23534	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, appreciating my predecessor's efforts to fight corruption, I've been challenged to come out, it's a matter of the dignity of the MPs. We passed the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act. Mr. Vukic, as well as some colleagues from the SRS in principle and in the discussion in particular, allowed themselves to talk about things they didn't know. I deeply appreciate my esteemed colleague, Mr. Pai Momchilov, and I deeply appreciate his efforts and objections to the entire package of health laws, but what Mr. Vukic said is not true. It is not true that we have passed the new Health Protection Act in order to generate corruption in health care and in Serbia at all. Just the new solutions we've made some anti-corruption measures. In particular, it was the largest controversy about a 199 member who spoke about supplemental work in health care. Here in the principle debate and in the discussion in particular, as well as Minister Milosavljevic, we fully explained what it is that we bring to Article 199. The G17 Plus Parliamentary Group has submitted an amendment to the law's solution, to determine exactly what it is that we want to do in addition to our work. Gentlemen, in the interest of Serbian citizens, I am responsibly saying that there will be no more work in health care on black, there will be no work that is not recorded and for which the price is not exactly known, and exactly what anyone has received for such work. We have three norms that determine supplemental work. There is a norm, what Mr. Vukic mentioned, working in his institution, you gentlemen have to read the law, you have to get well informed when you're notifying the public, because the truth is only one. The new health care law didn't provide for a man to work in the morning, and he chose the jobs he was going to do in his health care facility this afternoon. We're all required to do the job we're paid to do in the morning. In the afternoon we can additionally do extra standard services, we can do what the medical board and the director of the health care organization approves. Please, once again I want to tell you, there was a mix-up, a fellow who advocated the concept of erasing that part, that he can't work in his health care facility, but that he can only work in private practice. I'm telling you and I'm responsible for saying that this measure will totally prevent corruption in health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23535	Replica, Ambassador Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23536	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I accept what the esteemed colleague of the G17 Group said, plus that I don't know much about it, I accept that. I can't accept that kind of insult that those who are more famous and more recognized in the world of medicine than him know nothing. I also respect his expertise in pulmonary diseases, asthma, I don't know what else, I don't even know how to say the right to tell you everything you need to know. I can't just accept that for those who hold the world's symposiums in certain areas of medicine, to say that they don't know what they're saying, to those who do and who are in the steering part of the largest and most famous Serbian hospitals. One more thing, I don't understand how you need to give someone an injection, I don't understand what medications to prescribe, I don't understand anything in health care, but I understand that, like any other ordinary citizen, as much as anyone steals. That's what I understand because I see when someone kidnaps and loads shovels into trucks, I see someone puts it in their pockets and sees someone damage the state. It's true, you're going to say that some have gone better, especially the directors of each, the chiefs, etc., but of course, the ones you're setting up, but this country is damaged, these are directly taken from the state register, these are directly taking what would go to our country, what would ultimately belong to our people. That's what I understand and that's the essence of it. I've listed only one law in which we have enormous problems. Just one thing, we have these problems in all other spheres of social life, in all, and in our culture, where only a certain circle of people can make movies and only a certain circle of people can get money for their theaters. Others cannot win because these belong to the Democratic Party, because these belong to this party or to that party. We've got the same kind of pathological monopoly all over the place, which is based only on desire: let me steal as much as possible. This whole democracy story, Europe, all that we're great Europeans, big Democrats, these others don't work out anything, it's all about protecting ourselves, putting one ring, one cage between us and the others, that no one can break through, that this is our property, that no one in the alley touches us, that no one in the alley barks at us, this is what we're going to take, and until we take everything that's possible we won't let anyone in. It's the principle of work today in Serbia, and the famous question -- and where I am. You've heard that question in hundreds of places. As many as you have the president of the municipalities, the president of the assembly, the cities, the mayors who call him Mr. 10%, 15%, this one or that one. How many do you have? There are some people you can't sit down with without bringing in 10,000 euros. What are we talking about here? I thank you for your patience. One more thing, get one big thief, get one capitalist, get one capital for crime, one out of 100 million euros. For billions, they can't touch that. Take one out of a hundred million, so let's say they caught one, so of course they freed one big thief. Don't make people and make them the biggest thieves they've stolen 100 euros each. You have to answer, of course, not to tell me, you're pushing for people to steal 100 euros. No, they need to respond and go to the app. But don't let them be your biggest thieves, and the most honest ones are those who have half a billion euros today because they're very capable and smart. No one very capable and smart could make half a billion euros, and you have to keep that in mind at all times. Either we have a legal state, or these criminals and mobsters end up killing us all, because they can do whatever they want, they can buy whatever they want, there's no prosecutor to chase him, there's no court to prosecute him. In the second instance, there is no judge who will confirm or modify the verdict depending on how and what is appropriate to him. It's no use to people. Either we build a normal system, a normal state, or we just watch who's as big as the hair, who's gonna grab more and nothing more. Think about one more thing, I don't think we're all, and we and you, quite guilty of being so bad about politicians, no matter which political party they belong to. There's a little bit of furniture that's even worse than us talking about us bad. I strongly oppose that, because I will not allow anyone to do this because they are engaged in sports, and millions of euros have been cut short, to compare to politicians who do not have 100 euros in their pocket. There are those, I'm not like that. I have 100 euros. There are those who don't have 100 euros. Those who have millions of euros and steal it from this country as much as they could and however they could, they're big stars and it's not good, but of course there's our guilt about why people think so badly of us. Because they know he can make a deal with a politician. You set it all up, everything goes by, it just matters how much you pay. We need another Serbia where there are values you can't pay for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23537	The People's MP, Dr. Pai Momchilov, first appeared for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23538	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my esteemed colleague Maric mentioned my name here in the context of the replica to Mr Vukic. Well, look, we really brought a set of health care laws. Yesterday we voted on them, the day before yesterday, and now there's a controversy here about whether these laws, the laws that generate corruption. In my opinion, I'm free to say, most of the doctors from the state sector and 100% of the doctors from the private sector, it's the Health Protection Act of its Article 199, the way it's voted here, it generates corruption. A colleague, Vukic, spoke on the basis of what we were saying, but his point of view was based on the speech of fellow Vucicevic and others who discussed Article 199 here. What is measured for me should be said that the government itself has a commission, we have read about regulatory reform, which has been imposed by the World Bank, and all laws have to go through and get permission to be represented here, and then adopted, and these laws have not received that passage. Here's the negative opinion of the regulatory commission, we read it to you. So it's not a radical opinion, and it's not our evil intention to simply dispute what this congregation has brought. One thing is quite undeniable or perhaps two are undeniable, the way these laws are passed is shameful and never so in the long history of parliamentaryism, have ever passed system health care laws in this way. Tie by false condition that they have to be passed because of the budget, construct a thin story that doesn't drink water and no one has knocked it down, then pack the system laws with three more needlessly and give a united debate, in which we have, we radicals, for an hour and a half to analyze the good and bad sides of the system and these other laws. So that's the first thing. The second thing, which is absolutely safe and the professional public has told its court in a public debate, and I have been proving and showing it here, she said that the public debate did not give way to these legal solutions. So that's a serious problem because if you don't have a consensus, then you'll hardly have a chance to make it right. But it is clear that these laws will not, that such solutions, especially Article 199, put an end to corruption. See what these laws are allowed? As a gynecologist, I work early in the afternoon in the state and I can continue the afternoon in private, and then they'll pay the patients who want it out of their pockets, so it won't be insurance funds. What else am I allowed to do? I'm allowed that's not enough, because I have the right to one-third of my time to go to a private office and work. Today, healthcare corruption, and I'm going to talk about it later, it's just this one that's been cemented. She now has legal solutions that protect her and the dams, and I'm going to say something later on about it and it's an undeniable fact. What Mr. Vucic said, that's what the people say, which is already recognised, here you are moving among health workers, and probably you are being reached by voices, and when I speak later, I will clearly try to explain why these solutions are corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23539	According to the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Maric, you've caused these two replicas. The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorovic, not in the hall, and then MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. Mr. Stamenkovic, you will allow Ljiljani Nestorovic first. In accordance with Article 93(3) of the Financial Regulation, You've got five minutes of business.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23540	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, I know what my rights are in this Rules of Procedure as an MP who doesn't belong to any of the parliamentary groups, otherwise I'm a member of the SDP. I think it is very paradoxical and supremely cynical that, at the moment that MPs of this respected, or the highest legislative body in this country, are under serious investigation by the prosecution and police, accused of participating in corrupt criminal acts and taking bribes, they are discussing a national anti-corruption strategy. If it wasn't tragic, it would be really funny. And they are discussing this on the government's proposal that proposed this national strategy and that this parliament, which indeed has a serious suspicion that there is absolutely no credibility to discuss it, given that the prosecution and police are charging him with being bribed and corrupt, should give the government a further mandate to draw up an action plan for corruption, otherwise in a highly-ranked country at the rate of corruption, to continue to fight the phenomenon. I'll explain two examples, since I don't have much time, here's what this government has done specifically in the fight against corruption. We all remember the government's midnight sessions, when the "Knjiz Milos" affair came out of sight when the government met urgently in the middle of the night and without its legal powers hired UPPOK to investigate alleged cases of corruption among members of the Securities Commission. At that time, the finance minister accused the president of the commission of being the weakest and most corrupt link in the commission. Afterwards, various studies and promises came in three days, and this was announced by Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus, the same UBPOK and the same prosecutor's office as the results. I may not be well informed now, but I have never heard of any report by the competent authorities who, once again, have been illegally engaged in this case, and that they have announced to the public what happened to the members of that committee: were they corrupt or not? What I do know is that Milko Stimac continues to chair the commission, although he is accused of the most difficult work, and that the commission is working in the british composition, and that the commission continues to make the most important decisions regarding privatisation in this country. Another example concerns the recent case, when an affair broke out about the purchase of these locomotives that have now arrived finally in this country, when the director of the Public Procurement Directorate accused the ministry of doing the thing past the law. Then the Secretary of State came out and said the law was wrong. Imagine, the law that MPs of this parliament have passed by voting for him is not a good law for which his MPs have also voted. This is the highlight of cynicism, and it shows how ready this government is to comply with its own laws, or applicable laws, whether it has passed them or not. I am very pleased that the minister of justice is present here, but I am sorry that the President of Parliament is not present here, because I am as a MP who does not have the capacity of anyone's lawyer here, except for a lawyer who has the obligation to protect the procedure on which democracy is based, the procedure under which this Parliament, the law and the Constitution are working, I have asked him precisely for those reasons, which is my obligation, certain questions. I asked him questions about, first of all, the way the procedure in this House was severely violated. How has the procedure in this House been violated? In return, the Administrative Committee has been appointed to decide on the withdrawal of certain mandates to certain Members of Parliament. The Management Board shall be appointed without all members of the Administrative Board being informed. It is scheduled so that the public has not been informed, none of the media except "Politics", which has obviously and unfortunately become the government's private record. It has been scheduled so that none of us MPs knew that this Administrative Committee was meeting, although we have the right to take part in the work of each committee session, including the Administrative Board. Also, he's been violated, I say responsibly, Rules of Procedure in Rule 230. Article 230 clearly states, the MP resigns in writing and hands it over to the president of the National Assembly himself. The MP can give up his mandate himself. It is the Rules of Procedure that this congregation recently adopted. I asked a question of certain rough counterfeits I came up with not looking as an inspector and one's lawyer, but as an MP who was on his desk here in this room getting certain papers in which I noticed certain irregularities. How is it possible, I ask once again, that something that was seduced later has a smaller accounting number than something that was seduced earlier? How is it possible that on the statement made by Vesna Lalic... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... She handed over to the office that her previous deposited resignation was invalid, and the signature of the one who received it in the office stands, and on the blank resignation that was handed over does not stand that signature. It's possible, because the person who was receiving these materials at the office was obviously aware that someone was pushing her into an irregularity and wouldn't sign it so she wouldn't be responsible later. I asked the president of this House for clear answers and to tell me, as a MP, whether it was a fake, and if so, who ordered it to be done. Instead, I got it, and I don't know that monkey and parrot joke, but I got some paraphrase on that joke. I can now say here that I am happy to be a parrot from that joke, because I will keep repeating and asking questions concerning this case of rude violation of the law, the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, and who will be the monkey, may Mr. President of this House decide. I remind you once again that we do not have a mandate, unfortunately, to be on the most difficult charges and at the moment that some of us here intend to question the prosecution about alleged cases of corruption, we are dealing with something called a national anti-corruption strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23541	Thank you. Here you are, MP Alexander Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23542	Ladies and gentlemen, as part of parliament, as representative of the largest part of Serbia's parliament, I have answered the line and I want to highlight a few things. I hope this was about inaccuracy in expression, not intent. I don't want to talk about everyone, nor do I have the right to talk about everyone, nor do I think of that. I want to talk about 80 members of the SRS, we got 82 seats, and we got 80 MPs, because some of them took our seats, stole our seats. I want to say to these 80 people that they are neither bribed nor corrupt, that they are honorable people, people of the people, ordinary people, who do their job in the most honest way and work in the interests of the citizens and in the interests of their party. I won't let anyone call them corrupt or bribed in any way. I'm counting on it to be inaccuracy in expression. I found one thing you didn't tell the truth, and I know those in power would never find you, because they're careful and they don't listen to what you're saying. I found something where you were wrong, where as a smart and intelligent person you added something that would suit you, but my eyes are big and I see everything, so I'm in the 230s that you quoted and read, you said, Reverend Mrs. Nestorovic, the MP resigns in writing and teaches it to the president of the National Assembly himself. It doesn't say anything in person, Mrs. Nestorovic. Here's your Rules of Procedure. It doesn't say anything in person. My big eyes are guilty of that. What can I do to you? Don't be angry, you must count on the parliament to have those who take care of every word, us who are veterans in parliament. I wouldn't even see it so well, but the lady saw it, and she follows every word literally, so I don't always give a shit about what Serbian radicals' MPs can see without me. We've been talking about something here that I want to talk about in principle. We're talking about whether someone turned in before, after, at one point or another. We don't have any responsibility, and we haven't been to any of the board meetings. I want to tell you something, if we were, we'd vote for it, and I'll tell you that, as you can see, we're not looking for any alibis and we're not looking forward to anything. Aman people, these people are selected on the list of that party G17 plus. I think of them all the worst. The few people who voted for them voted for the G17 list, Labus and Dinkic. Now someone has settled, after two years of office, now I'm going to take some money or I've made a deal with Petrovic, Tadic or Karic or I don't know who, so I'm going to take some money now and I'm going to say I'm someone else. It's not moral, although you're all in the first place, it's absolutely immoral to act like someone. Now I'm going to say, yes, I've been elected on the SRS list, but I'm much smarter than an independent MP, and now I'm going to stay here. Where's my morale, where's my honor, where's my cheek? I'm surprised by the authorities that are running away, about which they can kick your ass, especially the Democrats and these others, where they can break you up in a moral sense. Let them ask you, are you people normal? Are you out of your mind? You're attacking us for taking the mandates that belong to us, which we earned in the elections, and you want a thief to take them away from us, and then they can't tell you anything. I don't know what kind of trouble they're having, and I can see you're as quiet as you're all watered down and nobody's saying anything about it. Journalists ask me in front and say, yes, she gave up some resignation earlier, this one turned in later, and I have no idea who turned in earlier, or who turned in later, and I'm asking if he was elected on that list. He says he is. They put him away. Their list. We have an imperative mandate, proportionate elections. We don't have a mandate. There are two types of mandates, one is free, the other is bound or imperative. In our law and in our constitutional system, under the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, there is a proportional system. When the Constitutional Court makes a different decision, the Constitutional Court's decision will be respected, and I don't think we have a Constitutional Court, but don't appeal to precedent law, because it's not here. Let him make a decision, and when he makes that decision, we will criticise that Constitutional Court decision, but we must respect it. He must react in each individual case and act on the Constitutional Court. When the Constitutional Court says that the mandate belongs to Sovranija, then the Soviets will be an MP again. That's a nice Serbian name and don't make fun of it. Not those who have tried immorally to get their hands on the mandate by acting. And now we teach morals, they didn't do it that way and that way. What's your problem? Why can't you answer that? I don't know what your problem is. You can't go out and say what you think, how you think or anything. Very briefly, I brought something to read to you, I prepared one material, it's very important, to read it to you. It's about major corruption in the government. We have, point 11, a decision to initiate a public procurement procedure for second-hand diesel motor vehicles. A man warns representatives of the ZTP authorities, Milan Cvejic says "There is no decision here of the Public Procurement Authority, i.e. consent that it may be a guessing procedure, not an open procedure, and it is not defined by the age of the vehicle. Funds, i.e. The funding sources will be subsequently determined. I'm not even sure about the cost of the job, because no economic justification has been delivered. Has the training of the workers been done? I'm interested in who he is, when and on what grounds he contacted a Swedish firm. The board of directors did not decide to proceed in the process of obtaining diesel vehicles." So the man warns them. There was another man, Jablan Obradovic, who warned them about it. The other six, which we don't care, make it, we'll go through the sweater and get the locomotives. There was a locomotive coming through the sweater, and then somebody was slapping them, hooligans in Sweden. They were so good locomotives that they liked Swedish hooligans and drug addicts, they were so expertly excavated, and there is somewhere in the Cyrillic letter, famous Swedish hooligans. This Sarancic here was a genius, he was kissed by his mother for being smart, he says to all of this: "The proposal may have to be more complete, but in negotiations we have achieved good conditions and this is an economically justified decision." The man has achieved good conditions. What will you do, while we have such conditions and with such conditions destroying Serbia, we cannot move forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23543	Thank you, Mr. Wolfie. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23544	Mr. Wolfie, there's no reason to argue, no matter the style we're talking about, because we're saying the same thing. As for the way I quoted the Rules of Procedure, I personally added as the way I interpret the Rules of Procedure. I am sure that Article 230 suggests that the MP can only resign himself to take the president of the National Assembly and to the office, and let Mrs Radeta, who is a lawyer, correct me, if that interpretation is not correct. So it doesn't say personally, but it clearly indicates that in the act, when it happens, it can only be done by personally taking the MP to the president of the National Assembly or to the office. Second, we can discuss morals here. I can also argue that in a moral sense, I agree with that. We have submitted to this assembly the amendments and the addition of the Law on the selection of MPs, where we have just wanted what is controversial to change, that is, it is not logical that the mandate that the MP gets on the list of his party belongs to him personally. A lot of things don't make sense. Sometimes it's moral to take away from the rich and give to the poor, but it's not legal. I'm talking about the law here. I'm talking about the procedure. Gentlemen, I have been taught that democracy is based on procedure, because if we enter the cloudy waters of morality and disrespect for the law, and defending against crime by criminal acts, we cannot get far. We have also witnessed this in the last session of this assembly, when the Social Democratic Party was the only one who, through its member of the Administrative Committee, was against the withdrawal of the mandates of the DSS MPs, very principledly, and then we respected the law. He can never transfer to us that we are unprincipled. But there can be transferred here by the double archivals who rule and when morals are mentioned, so when Slobodan Lalovic, former SDP MP, and now the MP who made himself available to Vojislav Kostunica, gives his statement to the president of the Assembly, which he says - I would like to inform you that I consider an invalid resignation as a member of Parliament, which I signed on 25 April 2005, because I did not hand it to you personally, as president of the National Assembly. The Social Democratic Party, given that she introduced him and that she gave him the mandate to defend the social programme... You know, you guys from G17 plus how you got into this Parliament, too, you know what deal we had. Look at the stenograms from the joint press conferences, see how you've become a parliamentary party in the past term, see how you've boasted that you have reservations that you'll activate when you need to. Don't just mention the double arches here. If we talk about morality, it can no longer be interpreted, as nor can the law be selectively applied. When nine SPO MPs come out, they have the right to a mandate, and when two G17 MPs come out, they do not have the right to a mandate. Gentlemen, you're on your way back. This parliament no longer has the legality it needs to have, to deal with anything serious, and especially with the anti-corruption law. I'm asking for another notice from the authorities. Yesterday, I heard from a respected member of the Security Committee of this congregation that we have among the MPs, whether they are secret agents or if they are protected witnesses, who, on special orders, are going to question someone. Who are the MPs and who gave them that mandate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23545	Thank you. The People's MP Tomislav Nikolic, then Petar Cvetkovic, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get clear first that something cannot be governed by the law without being in conformity with morality, because the law is based on moral standards, so that what is moral must be by law, and what is immoral must not be by law. When someone from here on this phone is talking about kidnappings of office, overcomings of electoral will, you have to think about whether or not he's ever been involved in it. You're the one who took the party to the man. You have kidnapped the entire party, with the consent of the Democratic Party, with its full support. You took the mandate of the man who stayed in the party you kidnapped and you are now with the most immoral man in Serbia, in Bogoljub Karic. Don't talk about morale. Yesterday, I'm listening to your President Bogoljub Karic, who says -- they were afraid of those who were being robbed of money from the people, and he didn't blink, and 600m euros stole from the citizens of Serbia, and you're talking about morality here. What kind of morality are you talking about? He just wanted me not to chair a session of the Administrative Committee that adopted the resignations of two MPs. I didn't run away from it, I resented why you didn't wait for the MPs of the SRS to come, we would vote publicly for these resignations to be respected. Now, I'm informing you, you may not have known, but at the beginning of this call, we all agreed that we would respect the resignations that have been made and that the MP who resigned did not have to come, because we knew that there would be theft and theft. Any document referred to to the President of the Assembly shall not be carried to him on the table or to bed, but shall be handed over to the office. I guess you get that. Because the president, who you give something to, can tomorrow say you didn't give him anything. The president, who gets something through the office, can't say you didn't give him anything. That's why you take care of who you are and who you are. For when a man comes out of the river, he cannot say that the wet are bad: for out of the river you come out wet, and when you are with a defiled man, then you get dirty from that defiled man. You managed to bring down a government by trading terms. Now I ask you, have you brought good or evil to Serbia? If this government is worse than the one you brought down, do you have any policy to do? If she's better, why are you attacking her? In particular, don't attack Vojislav Kostunica, it's my right, because your president said he was the patriarch of democracy. When you compare someone with the patriarch, then don't lick what you spit, but keep your mouth shut and be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23547	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23548	Ladies and gentlemen, there's little to be added to this. However, what I am obliged to say is that the session of the Administrative Committee was scheduled and held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. MPs who do not know the Rules of Procedure can read the same, get acquainted with the content of the same, and they can ask people who know it. There is a regular procedure of appointment and there is a procedure that is different from regular - extraordinary. But the questions Mrs Nestorovic has asked from this pay phone, she knows the answers herself, but the questions are so contradictory that they cannot be answered, as each asked question contains an answer to the second question. About taking a mandate, about the behaviour of this political party, which it is supposed to belong to, and I honestly don't know, because so many parties have been changed over the past few years that I don't know which political group Mrs Nestorovic belongs to, their morals and their behaviour are just talking about how these questions are being asked. Not to be too long, the session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and is held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. All other information could have been notified if there was a good intention, or by a person working in the service, as assistance to the Administrative Committee, or by members of the Administrative Board. After all, Mrs. Nestorovic cannot be answered for reasons that there is no rational explanation, because she is filled with hatred to the extent that Racio does not manage her actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23549	The People's Messenger, Bogoljub Pejcic, has his word by the Rules of Procedure, and the People's Messenger, Miloljub Albianic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23550	Since my colleague Ljiljana Nestorovic was alluding to me, because I am the member of the Security Committee who said what I said. In order to explain to her, I would like to say what the bodies of the Assembly were that sent some MPs with the intention of seeing what Bogoljub Karic had to offer. So, Mrs. Nestorovic, there were two types of MPs: one MP who secretly went to your boss to negotiate the transition, so those who went secretly to Mr. Karic; and there are also those MPs who went with the permission of their parliamentary group. If that weren't the case, we'd never know what Mr. Karic's doing. Which ones are MPs, you might find out in a few days. So don't get excited, let the police do their job, let the D.A. do their job, then just call me back. So if you are unhappy, come and call me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23551	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Miloljub Albianic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23552	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Mrs. Nestorovic, cover your head and you and that unfortunate Dusan Petrovic. We waited to see who would report after the whole case and, behold, Ljiljana Nestorovic and Dusan Petrovic appeared. This means that you directly participated in the theft of the mandate or were the intermediaries between your boss Bogoljub Karic and the Serbian Parliament in the purchase and trade of mandates. That's why you need to cover your head for a lot of other things. For example, did you go to Bogoljub Karic for money or not? You are not the opposition here in the Serbian Parliament. The question now is, are you involved in the criminal activities of buying MPs? That's what the police should investigate and determine in your case. Is it possible that you're so naive, so ignorant, that you'll discover yourself immediately the next day? How is that possible? It's possible because, along with your boss, you've made a point of irrationality and you think everything can be bought in Serbia. He can't, and we showed you that. They're not MEPs for sale.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23553	Thank you. Since I had an obligation, I was asked by the vice president to replace him precisely in one, I received a notice, so I give Nikola Jovanovic my word in the Rules of Procedure. I assume he's also looking for Ljiljana Nestorovic's word in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23554	Mr. President, MPs, Mrs. Nestorovic said in her statement that it was necessary to take the mandates of SPO MPs on the list of New Serbia -- the SPO, nine who remained on that election list for which Serbian citizens voted. If someone was to be taken away from the mandate, they should have taken away those who left the SPO-New Serbia list, because the people did not vote for the SPO, or voted for New Serbia, but voted for a list called SPO-New Serbia. That's why I don't think what Mrs. Nestorovic said absolutely stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23555	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ljiljana Nestorović, based on personal mention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23556	Yeah, I've been mentioned, there's no one who hasn't mentioned me. I must say, it is quite clear that every government must have its own Goran Matic. Mr. Albianic, unfortunately, that's the role you've played on yourself at this time. You're not doing it badly, I must commend you. You're a legend. I fully agree with the qualifications you gave yourself. To introduce myself, I have been Ljiljana Nestorovic, a member of the SDP since I joined the party. I've never changed the game, and I'll never change the game. I'm not one of those flyers that can be talked about, and now they're sitting in the ranks of those parties that are fighting the flyers. As for the kidnapping of Mr. Vuk Obradovic, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, I already explained to you here once that unlike others who called for immunity in various disputes and who refused to go to court, I went to that court for three years to prove my justice. I proved my justice in court. You're talking about my morale, in that sense, you can't and can't say a word. Who I am, what I've done in my life, what I have, all Serbian citizens know, because I've done public work. You can take all the money I've received. I was with Mr. Karic, he was my employer, as he was an employer to Mr. Nikitaovic, as he was an employer to Mr. Tijanic, as he was an employer to Mr. Djuric. So, all of Karic's people are today all of the prime ministers. I did not take Mr. Karic to a business delegation in Banja Luka in 2001, but was led by Mr. Kostunica, when Mr. Djindjic rose his hair on his head. So much for who's being consistent. Now he's your political opponent and now he's bothering you. When he gave you money for campaigns, then he was a dear guest in your business delegations. That's what's true. Mr. Karic is not the president of my party. Mr. Karic has a signed agreement with the SDP. Unlike you who act secretly with tycoons, SDP does everything he does publicly. Unlike Mr. Karic, who is your smoke screen here for your arrangements with other tycoons, Mr. Miskovic has increased his wealth tenfold during you and today he is the richest man in Serbia, today he is the majority owner of Serbia. That's what you'll answer for when you're out of power. Otherwise, I can't wait for the police to listen to me, because, when there was a vote on NIS, gentlemen dear, I was out of the country, as was now my former counterpart, Mr. Vlatko Sekulovic, deputy minister of economic relations with abroad, who made himself available to Vojislav Kostunica. He called me on a cell phone, pull out the documents, see how many calls he made from his phone, offer me to make available to the current government, to offer me a helicopter to come to Greece to pick me up to vote for the NIS law and to offer me technical services through one of your tycoons. (President: Time. ) I call on the state prosecutor to call me and listen to who called me, how many times, what he offered me and what the tycoon was, and after that, in the public interest, I will also announce it to the citizens of Serbia. (President: Time. I call once again on the Attorney General not to react selectively to the statements of the MPs. He can't call some and some can't call. Here, I put myself at his disposal to question me who called me, how many times and what he offered me to make available to Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23557	Thank you. We work exclusively under the Rules of Procedure and the Law, we respect the order of reporting. This is the National Assembly. First, I ask all MPs to use the microphone. The microphones are working. We can talk normally. Secondly, from this place, I didn't know, but I must warn you, if there are people, you're MPs, the immunity of what you say about the pay phone is guaranteed and, as a man representing the Assembly, I guarantee you, but if you knew or if you have information that some crime has been committed, what kind of call, urgently report it to the prosecutor. I'm not telling you, ma'am, I repeat again, whoever has the information on the crime is obliged, not out of ignorance, as some people don't know the Rules of Procedure, so they're wrong, so whoever knows of any crime should report it urgently. Please consult on that. In the meantime, we'll take a break to consult. Break to 13,15 hours. [[After break – 13,20.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving on. National MP Meso Omerovic asked for a replica. Is he here? No, it's not. ) National MP Tomislav Nikolic asked for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, and afterwards, if there are no other announcements, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Vojislav Milajic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23559	I'm sorry Mr. Omerovic isn't here, since... I'd like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23560	Very correct. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic, a replica of Mr. Nikolic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23561	Before I replicate my esteemed colleague, Nikolic, Mr. Markovic, you're trying to run this assembly, sometimes edgy, funny, maybe just you, breaking the Rules of Procedure. You can't give a ten-minute break in which you say that the first next speaker is Col. Omerovic by the replica, and then start the session after 7.5 minutes. Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23562	Mr. Omerovic, please respect your dignity. Gentlemen, allow the MP to have an explanation and a word. So, Mr. Omerovic, right after the Rules of Procedure, respecting dignity, I have informed MPs who, as they have reported, will receive a word at the end of the ten-minute break so that they can respect the Parliament's dignity and be there. The break was, as you know, given at 13,07, I rang multiple times, now it's 13.27. So, it's been twenty minutes and more than when you showed up, convinced that you had a reason for being late and before I was able to, the speaker who, after you were called, got the word correctly let him leave the pay phone and give you my word, although according to the Rules of Procedure, as you know, I have no right to give a word to anyone until the previous speaker is finished. Now, go ahead and be kind, honor the dignity of this congregation as I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23563	Mr. President, you can ring the bell for another five, ten minutes, your time has long been ringing. Therefore, it is something that all Serbian citizens know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23564	Please don't talk about my age, it's simply forbidden by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23565	I mean, at the time of the party whose vice president you are, I think, still. So, Mr. Nikolic, with all due respect and all that he says very often, referring to morality, said several things that simply do not stand. Mr Nikolic appears to be a proverbial ignorance by Mr Vojislav Kostunica in some way conveyed good deeds to himself, so from this pay phone he says that Mr Bogoljub Karic is the president of the Social Democratic Party. Mr Nikolic, the president of the Social Democratic Party is Dr Nebojsa Covic, and the president of the Serbian Movement is Mr Bogoljub Karic, so the party with which the Social Democratic Party signed an agreement on co-operation, which implies a pre-election, electoral and post-election coalition. We'll see what happens. So it's because of several factual indicators, to know who we're talking about and what we're talking about. About how moral it is to bring down a previous government, so that it enters, as you say, out of the water wet, and trying to explain something different, I think that the water from which you Serbian radicals came out and from the time you spoke to Mira Markovic, and you, Mr. Nikolic and Mr. Seselj, is a red witch, the water from which you came out when you said to the president of the SPS, Mr. Slobodan Milosevic, that he was the biggest criminal in the Balkans, so with such people and from such water, you entered the coalition and ruled, unfortunately for Serbian citizens, in previous years, and unfortunately for Serbian citizens, brought Serbia into this situation where we are today. So, the red witch and the biggest criminal in the Balkans were your coalition partners, with whom you led this country by using everything that makes up executive power. The Red Witch and the biggest criminal in the Balkans were your coalition partners. Is that moral, did you resign after that disastrous policy, or one of your MPs, as you call us? Time has shown you haven't. Do the hard words you are now referring to Vojislav Kostunica, the Democratic Party of Serbia, G17 and its officials, Labus and Dinkic, precisely because of the experience you had with the red witch and the biggest criminal in the Balkans, say you may enter a ruling coalition with these two parties in the near future? I don't know, but I just had this right and obligation to remind you whether something was moral or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23566	In the future, I really don't talk about parties from this pay phone, especially parties belonging to MPs, because I noticed that some people tend to change the party, so that I don't make a mistake. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23567	Indeed, at a time when we were in the coalition with the Socialists and the JUL, Bogoljub Karic was a minister in that government, so that you could sign a co-operation agreement with me. It's the same for you. That's one thing. The other thing is, I was misread by Mrs. Nestorovic. When I talk about morality, I think about general human value. I don't just think about morality in sexual relations. If that's how you understood me when I said it was immoral what you were doing, and you told me that in a trial dispute that lasted three years you proved to be moral, I didn't think that part, on one side, was a definition of morality. I meant political morality, not what you fought for in a trial. It really didn't occur to me because I was always able to protect the members of the weaker sex than the insolence, from abuse of official office, which apparently was applied by your judgment in your case. It doesn't occur to me to accuse you of that at any time or to remind you of that at any time. That's what you remind me of now. I spoke exclusively of morality in politics, only about one branch where morale is manifested, and I said that much is immoral in this assembly and that there are few other political parties I see, especially when it comes to stealing mandates and ending election results. I want all parliamentary groups to help them have as many MPs as the people in the elections have entrusted them. So I ask all of you, how come the SRS is now 80, and the people gave it 82? Who among you took part in having two messengers less than the people wanted, who put it above the people? As it never occurred to me, for I have learned this from Vojislav Seselj, to kidnap a foreign MP or a foreign councilman, it will cost you much that we now have two more MPs. So, all of you, and who you think can cooperate with us and who you don't think can cooperate with us. In particular, it will cost your President of the Constitutional Court, the one who has never been in court, whom Milosevic has appointed to be the President of the Constitutional Court, and you have forgotten who is the most responsible for his whereabouts. His decision to belong to the MP broke Serbia and out of 250 of Serbia's most prominent citizens, what did she do? See how journalists live above what is happening in the Assembly, and that is because there are MPs who are not attached to politics, who cannot stand not being MPs next year, because their party may not be parliamentary or their party will be, but they will not be MPs. Do you have to be MPs for the most part? Does a man have to be a rich man in four years? So within four years of being a rich man, did we have small salaries, did we have small diaries, did small travel expenses, which is the reason to cross over to rich people. What rich people? Mostly those who got rich in a folk accident. At a time when it was possible to trade with Milosevic, get foreign exchanges per course, and sell twice as expensive and return the shares of the foreign exchanges immediately, even during the night long or Friday, so they return Monday morning to the banks, no interest, nothing. Pretend like you don't know who these rich people are. Now it's easy, when something was built on the floor, to build buildings. And where is this initial capital, where is this original accumulation, what did it come from? From our accident, from our poor girl. For the record, don't leave any parties whose lists you've entered, don't leave, because there's no reason. None of us here, perhaps individuals can say that they would enter parliament alone, perhaps they can, but none of us here would be an MP if it weren't for the political parties we belong to and not for the president of those parties. Even when he wins five seats, 12 seats, he blames the president, and when he wins 100 seats, he also deserves the president, not us individuals. Let's get this straight, I promise you, whoever resigns as an MP, he's gonna be in debt, he's gonna go to court, he's got to verify that he's pulled out, he's got to go out to Terrazie, and he's gonna tell the people that he's resigning, he's not worth it. It will be indemnified, and the Constitutional Court should dispute afterwards with the Serbian Parliament and its Administrative Committee whether it should have been indemnified or not. Let's return the morale to the National Assembly, see how it will come back and spread across Serbia and how we will begin to appreciate the work again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23568	According to the Rules of Procedure, the MP, just to announce the order of announcement, excuse me, in the order of the announcement I see, for God's sake, let me say, therefore, Mr Obradovic, Mrs Nestorovic, Mr Šormaz. Here you go, Mr. Beard.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23569	Dear fellow Members of the People, I considered, of course, both a party and a personal obligation to report on the claims made by Mr Omerovic and the mention of the SPS and Slobodan Milosevic. Namely, five things here are very interesting. One, the whole story started about two terms of G17 and really, a man has to wonder, if there is any in his head, why isn't it viewed as an internal issue, within the G17, why are the Social Democrats so nervous, angry, angry, attacked, attacked by the mention of Karic, if they have nothing to do with him? Two, when it comes to socialists and that water, the mud that was there, just to remind the Social Democrats that the president of their party was a member of the SPS for six years, and that high official, the third was in the SPS and he stopped being when he was told to appoint the City Assembly without being mayor. Under three, we have had very correct, good and successful co-operation with radicals and it remains as a fact, and don't you feel bad about us working with them. Under four, social Democrats don't exist. It's just fiction, they stole the Vuka Obradovic game. The meeting room took lists of evidence that most of them at that time were Vuks, and afterwards there was nothing in the court that could confirm all of this. Five, it's good, it's very good that the state reacted in this case and that the state authorities will examine all this that has been happening in the past few days around the assembly session, about the budget and trying to buy some MPs to vote against the budget and to bring down the government. Why am I saying this? If Mr. Mika Vlaovic comes out and says publicly, he offered me more Karic than my total property, then it is the obligation of other MPs who were in that situation to speak publicly when they spoke to, who they were talking to and how much they were offered, and then the state to do everything in its power to eliminate it and to know that money cannot be more than the will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23570	Please, so there is no confusion later, just a moment, Mrs Nestorovic, just a moment, get off the phone, let me inform the MPs, be kind, Mrs Nestorovic, let me work on the Rules of Procedure. So, please, don't, don't, I have to respect the Rules of Procedure, for God's sakes, you hear that people have incredible things coming to mind, the president is sleeping and he's leading here, sleeping next to the office, showing up at a hundred places, we have to work on the Rules of Procedure. So, in turn, after Mrs. Nestorovic, Mr. Šormaz, Mrs. Milica Vojić-Markovic, I apologized, I didn't see you right before that, I know, but allow me, I can't go to a hundred places, so you, Mr. Omerovic, have reported that there would be no confusion as a replica of Mr. Obradovic's exposure now, and we will, in that order, please, if it is possible that, until this order is over, we will not be lost, no one will report to the Rules of Procedure, so that we can introduce some flow, so that people will hear each other. Here you go, Mrs. Nestorovic now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23571	It is obvious, through all these discussions here and the return from Kuline Ban, the wish of certain MPs and their parties that this discussion should disintegrate and simply lose its meaning. I don't want any more part of it. I told you what I had, I asked you, President of the Assembly, to react to obvious irregularities. I've made it very clear to you that these irregularities have occurred. Don't tell me what my obligation is to the Attorney General. In the same way Mr. Mika Vlaovic made some claims here, at a press conference, and what was published in the media, I presented at the time when the NIS Law was voted. The same was done by Mr. Djokovic, who went further and filed criminal charges. I'm just saying, it's the right of every MP to say what he has, it's the responsibility of the attorney general not to react selectively, but to respect all of this and to take all that he hears from the media, as he said in Mr. Mike Vlaovic's case, if he finds it appropriate to have a reason. So, don't tell me that, I have fulfilled my obligation, in the same way as Mr. Mika Vlaovic, you have not fulfilled your obligation, because you are hiding the obvious counterfeit that was created in this assembly. As far as political morality is concerned, and I'm going to finish by thanking Mr Nikolic for realizing that my personal indisputable, but as far as political morality is concerned, we were together, gentlemen of the DSS, in DOS. That's when you wanted out of DOS. Your ownership of your mandates has been disputed. The Social Democratic Party rightfully supported you through a vote on the Administrative Committee. At that time we were principled and politically moral, as we were principled and politically moral when you asked for a debate on the confidence of the Government of Zoran Zivkovic, when you were the opposition and we were the position, so we supported your democratic right to discuss the confidence of the Government. When this situation came, when you are in power, and the opposition is seeking its democratic right, again the Social Democratic Party supported that of your democratic right, gentlemen of the radicals, and those who asked the opposition then for this democratic right and thought it belonged to them, did not now want you to have the right to permit it. So much for political, party and every other principle. We, gentlemen, have agreed that we will build institutions in this country, that we will give them weight, that no one will be above the law. See what happens today in the Assembly, see how the state prosecutor's institution reacts, on two occasions, at night, when no one does, initiates procedures that are absolutely in the service of pressure and extortion of certain decisions. I say once again, I don't know what happened to you in the meantime, I won't participate in this debate anymore, you see what you do with your own political morality and your own safety. I think you're on your way back and it's not good for you or Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23572	Thank you, Mrs. Nestorovic. Please, first they will have a word, according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Šormaz, so MP Milica Vojić-Markovic, Mr Peric appears in the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Nestorovic, please, there is no question of any isolation, when Mr. Vlaovic presented one piece of information for this speaker, and I remind you, MPs may be at the pay phone, have immunity, have different data to which they have appeared, it seemed to them, have the need to tell citizens, however, by the Assembly that it is necessary, if he has awareness of the criminal act, to report it, because whatever there is immunity, an MP who knows of some crime must not hide it. The same way I told you today, because it's my duty to take care of the law, not of how someone imagines the law. That's why I've turned my attention and I'll be doing it in the future. So there is no difference in the treatment of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Shormaz. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23573	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard here right now from Mrs. Nedeljkovic something that is completely illogical. How? Okay, Nestorovic, I'm sorry. Mrs. Nestorovic called for it when we went to elections together as DOS. True, unfortunately, perhaps, when considering everything that was going on, the DSS may have been supposed to go on its own in December 2000. Surely, Serbia would be much different and much better now than it was after that December 2000. That's my opinion. I'll remind you that it was a stamp with 18 parties and that everyone on that list was bringing their identity and their own. Among other things, it was yours, and you're now off the list that you went with, you left that MP club, and no one's slowing it down for you because you were in a coalition agreement as a party. Is that slow for you? Nobody. So, now that you've said how you stood on our side then, thank you, but we were right and then, as we're right and now. Mr. Nikolic here said all the things and I absolutely agree with every word he said without saying that Montenegrin proverb, someone will say, "everyone was to him." Simply, who among us here would have been an MP if he hadn't been on his party list. Nobody. As far as the DSS is concerned, wherever we're going and when I go public, I always say that the SRS has 82 MPs, not 80. So 82 MPs. Unfortunately, there is a moral zero that calls itself the MP of another party that did not even exist at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23574	Please, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23575	I can't call these people otherwise, Mr. President, punish me if I have to, but I will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23576	I'll have to.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23577	I also consider two G17 MPs plus moral zeroes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23578	This is a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23579	Whether they got the money or not for what they did doesn't necessarily mean. In my opinion, they are corrupt, just as Mr Tomislav Nikolic said here. They didn't have to take a single penny, they're corrupt. Why? Because they sold their political future to someone else and we all know who. They don't have to take a single penny, they're corrupt because they left the MP's club to whom they belong and because they tried to move in with someone else. This must be prevented in every way and will be prevented in the future. This government will not be a government when it does not have a majority in this congregation. Most people get lost. How? By, let's say, the SPS will decide not to support the minority government anymore, here's a new election for you. Or G17 plus is going to make a decision not to participate anymore, and that's not the policy they stood up for in the elections, or the SPO, or the NS, or the DSS, says, no more, this isn't what we wanted, new elections. Then there will be new elections, not when the SDP coalition partners will. Therefore, it should continue this way and whoever tries has to be punished in the same way, and how to recover the SRS two mandates, I don't know, should propose an SRS and have the DSS support in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23580	Thank you, Mr. Shormaz. I have to remind myself now, unfortunately, they did not listen to me, my appeal, MPs, so according to the Rules of Procedure, they applied after Mrs. Milice Vojić-Markovic, Hranislav Peric, then Petar Cvetkovic, then the replica. You gave up, Mr. Cvetkovic? Did you give up, Mrs. Vojic? No, I don't. ) Here you go then, then the replica of Mr. Omerovic. Thank you for listening to the warning, because, as you know, Negos didn't write to political parties, he called it a different call, the investigation was. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23581	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, in my address, I want to go from what is today's agenda, which is - the Serbian Government's strategy in the fight against corruption. I fall into those MPs, I can say it, by looking at you here, that at least 90% of the MPs in this room can say and agree with me that they can't wait for this country to really start fighting corruption, and not just by working this out today and voting this strategy in a few days, but by really going to live in this country. That the fight against corruption has started and that it is infuriating very well shows the totally hysterical behaviour of some of our fellow MPs here today, shows a completely unambiguous display of what is happening here today, about what was happening here on Saturday and Sunday, shows that some media are forgetting what it means to objectively show things. Last night I was on a bus coming back to Valjev, we stood for an hour and a half because there was a big car accident on the way, a TV was on, and I watched what the BK TV report on what was going on in the Assembly looked like. Believe me, I laughed. It's a disgrace and it can't be called information. Someone's got to answer for that. It's a public medium. What else is so interesting to me here today? This totally hysterical address and demeaning everything the Serbian government, headed by the prime minister, Mr. Kostunica, does. (President: I'm sorry, no one speaks hysterically, I warn you, without those terms. People's MPs choose a way. I fall into those who calm souls believe that the struggle with corruption has begun. It began by arresting doctors who harassed citizens and asking them for 150 euros for regular service. What I'm saying is that the customs officers who took 50 euros were arrested. But I want to believe that the MPs who took 200,000 euros for a favor will also answer, and we will find out what service. I want to say that I believe that those who have offered them that 200,000 euros will respond, because I don't think that in this country in the last 15 years, no one could make that kind of money without taking that money in any other way, that these are not legal ways. Let me answer my colleague's question about how the Administrative Committee is scheduled. I'm not a member of the Administrative Board. I'm an MP who sits in this room and thinks it's the job of the MPs, that the biggest job of the MPs is going on in this room. I was here on Saturday and Sunday, and then, unfortunately, there were very few MPs. I didn't see any MPs now saying that, well, they didn't know it was the board of directors. Like all those who were here in the O.R. that day, I knew it was the board of directors. Once again, Mr. Pejcic, I must say that I am not grateful that he broke my illusions that there were some other MPs who went with the task to a gentleman who has so much money to offer Serbia. I naively believed that these MPs with a special task, those who, in the halls and hallways of our congregation, are not in this room where they fight for the truth and tell the truth, talk to the media, whisper between themselves and some unknown people. Unfortunately, I seem naive.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23582	Thank you, Mrs. Vojic-Markovic. Mr. Perry, go ahead. I appeal not to report MPs to the Rules of Procedure. Petar Cvetkovic gave up the discussion. Mr. Mijailovic, Lune, reported on his business. I appeal once again, every time you call, you delay Mr. Omerovic's replica, and you all know we're gonna take a break from two to three. It's not correct, please give up if you can, from your parliamentary announcement. Here you go, Mr. Perry.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23583	Mr. President, I called the Rules of Procedure because you didn't warn Mecca what was behind this pay phone, as I would say, banging some nonsense. (President: I warn you. ) Please let us continue on the agenda. We would ask you, when we are done on the agenda, to schedule a session one day, at which the rapporteur would prepare Meho, and here to present to us how he moves from party to party, how from coalition to coalition, because all parties are good for him when he is elected to take office. Who's going to vote for him if he goes alone with the party? That's why he's always better in the coalition, and after a month, he's no good in the coalition. Mr Meho, as far as Slobodan Milosevic is concerned, I believe he never took you and never mentioned you, you are very small that he deals with your name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23584	Please, no mention of private life. So Petar Cvetkovic gave up the discussion. The word is Luna Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23585	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, reporting for violation of the dignity of this high house. All of us here need to know what's moral and what's immoral. I wonder if it's moral to steal someone else's stuff and sell it? It's not. Gentlemen of Parliament, we are here in Parliament because the people voted for us and voted for our party's policy. It's not our mandate. We sell the votes of our voters. Is there morality or not? He has no morals and everyone is immoral who moves from one party to another. He's a moral man when simply during the time, while in parliament, he disagrees with a policy he thought was right, simply to give his mandate and say goodbye. It's a moral man, and he can re-emerge on a political scene and leave among his people where he came from. That's why for me, there will always be anyone immoral who takes people and sells them, especially people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23586	Here you are at last, Mr. Omerovic. Mr. Mijailovich, I understand your personal understanding of morality, but the law is clear. Certainly, an MP can change the party, it's a matter of personal opinion, but of course, as far as the electoral list is concerned, he's a moral man, of course, it's a personal understanding of morals -- to resign or do something else. But that's a personal question. It is technically possible, if it is not regulated in another legal way, contract or something else, it can be formally exposed to the situation to explain why he did something else. So let's not say that some MPs are immoral. We're only talking about the law and the personal sense of morality. Here you go, Mr. Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23587	It's good, Mr. President, I hear that some MPs say that it's close to two zeros seven, and then the ruling coalition is used to taking breaks, and at that time it makes very important decisions. It's good, Mr. President, that you reminded the previous speaker of what it means to move from one party to another, because the previous speaker knows very well what it means to switch from the SPO to the DSS. It's true and it's his right. I will always fight for the right to think and decide with my own head.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23588	Please allow the speaker to speak. I warn you, Mr. Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23589	Please warn Mr. Cvetkovic who talks so much from the bench, and so briefly holds meetings of the Administrative Board, you note by the Rules of Procedure,
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23590	I'm doing business right now. I'm warning Mr. Cvetkovic. For God's sake, it's amazing that the moment I do that, you're warning me that I should do it. Please don't let me finish my warning in a few seconds, let me say the whole sentence, it lasts. Be kind and go ahead now.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23591	Mr. President, I really don't know how long it takes you, but give me three minutes as long as it takes me to give the replica to Mr. Obradovic. Kolega Obradovic accused the Social Democratic Party's MPs to defend these G17s plus who were illegally deprived of parliamentary mandates. We're not defending them because they were members of G17 plus. We defend the right of the MP given to him by the Constitutional Court. Perhaps the law we defend and the law given to the Members of the Constitutional Court is wrong. I would agree with you that this is wrong and we have to change that law. We must change the practice that will bring us into order of European democracy, parliamentary ones, in which the laws on election of MPs are regulated in the best possible way to reflect the will of citizens. Members of the SDP two years ago, in October, submitted amendments and additions to the Law on the election of MPs, introducing a category of independent MP. So we think that's the solution. Replica, I am not myself, Mr. Obradovic, nor angry or indignant, nor hysterical, although some predecessors were quite hysterical in their efforts. We have nothing to do with Bogoljub Karic, you say. We have, Mr. Obradovic, the SDP signed an agreement on co-operation with the Serbian Movement, with a legal, legitimate political living party, which participated in elections for the Vojvodina District Assembly, which participated in local elections across Serbia and the city of Belgrade. So, with a party that is registered in the register, Mr Stojkovic and Mr Loncar know it best, with a party that is legitimately registered in the register and which, unfortunately for you, currently has about 20% of the confidence of Serbian citizens. So, we, as a parliamentary party, signed a coalition agreement with the Serbian Force Movement. However, a second question is raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23592	Please, the bell ring is the way the president warns MPs to be quiet when they seek the satisfaction of their rights, and one of what MPs consider their right, it is that the president respects the custom, not the ruling majority but the entire assembly, that it is a break between two and three. I beg the MPs, there's only one minute left for the speaker to quiet down a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23593	I was left with more since you were taking my time to throw me out of the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23595	The basic question is who has any contracts, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, with Lazarevic, Hamovic and Miskovic, and where these contracts were concluded, on which islands and on whose behalf. I'm more than convinced that these contracts aren't made on behalf of the MPs or the DSS or the G17 plus, because I know all these people. They're honorable and honest people. These are MPs chosen by the votes of citizens from their midst. I know all of you, and I can look you all in the eye. I know that you enjoy trust and reputation in your environments, but you have not given Dinkic or Labus or Nikola Zivanovic or Voina Lazarevic the right to do what they do. A group of friends manages all the financial flows in this country. It's a scandal and it's a crime. We should all fight against it -- and you from the ruling coalition and us from the opposition, because this is also the point of the agenda. I might as well agree with Mr. Shormaz and Mr. Lunet, it was some sort of moral zero. So, we have one situation, a folk MP, elected on a particular list, may at some point disagree with the party's programme on whose list he was elected. Allow me, that's every man's right. Don't take this right away from the G17 Plus MPs who disagreed with the G17 Plus policy and programme that, with the vote of Slobodan Milosevic from The Hague, six MPs give support to the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Don't take that right away from the G17s plus when they can't vote for a law providing financial assistance to Hague indictees. It wasn't a program or a G17 plus, nor do these honourable MPs deserve it, nor did anyone in their name sign it and provide it. (President: Time. ( ) Therefore, while you are already referring to what is moral and what is not, I would agree that there are also moral zeroes. You know, then you have to apply the same archaic, if they, as you say, have released their party's program, so their mandate has been taken away in the way that it was taken away, then why does Mr. Slobodan Lalovic not belong in that same category? What did you give Slobodan Lalovic for the trust he expressed to the government of Vojislav Kostunica and Vojislav Kostunica himself? Answer me. Mr. Lalovic was also one of the people on the list who resigned. I'm just reminding you. So the thing here is more than clear. I ask you to finish the morale story, we have long since seen that there is no morale in this House, at least in the heads and in the functioning of those who should be the most responsible for law enforcement and legality. We can talk about morality somewhere else, this is a congregation, this is a legislative body. I think the most immoral thing is what is currently being done in the executive government, which is that the government of Vojislav Kostunica seems to want parliament, that 250 MPs elected by the people, account for them. My dear friends, that really won't work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23596	Of course not. Can I have your attention, please? This is a congregation, of course, that it can't be about morality, although MPs have the right to present information for a pay phone, regardless of whether or not they have something to do with the truth, but the public must not be disturbed. So the public has no reason to worry. Minister Lalovic, who was elected by this assembly, has never resigned anywhere. If he had put up with it, he wouldn't have made any announcements about it. Once again, I pray for everything, what a replica, I give notice, yesterday I had to remind - this is the National Assembly, this is the law, not the jokes. God forbid our reality looks like parrot and monkey jokes, it's not right. Allow the Minister's notice, otherwise I cannot accept, all of you who reported to the Rules of Procedure, because we promised the MPs that there would be a break. Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Palalic, Mijailovic, answered, but we agreed, because it is not correct, some people came out and wanted to hear. Please, just a notice from Minister Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23597	I'll be very brief, so you can take a break. It is said here that there is no need to vote and discuss the anti-corruption strategy, as it says - a criminal procedure has been initiated. The previous days and what has been said in the Assembly today, on the contrary - we should discuss this and once take the final view that there should be valid measures, lasting measures to address the problem of corruption in this society. Also, it has been said that there is no need to vote, because the prosecutor has initiated a process of gathering evidence, so that after a few minutes it is said - let the prosecution work, but don't selectively. This clearly says that the issue of morality and moral standards is not enough to solve the problem of corruption. I think it is this coincidence that today we are discussing a strategy and how important it is, that once we take the right stance of this assembly and that the Assembly adopts a strategy so that it can act properly on this plan. Obviously, moral standards aren't enough. On the other hand, one false thing has been said - that the Government is asking for the messengers to answer it; one harsh falsehood. When there is an indication that crimes have been committed, and I have heard of this speaker saying it, then those who commit these crimes, or there are indications that they have been committed, have to account for the authorities, and unfortunately, I have to inform them that they are prosecutors and courts. They will answer and account for them, not this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23598	Thank you, Mr Stojkovic. Of course, a break, and I'm asking for your understanding, everyone who's answered, in case you stay in the same position that there's a need, you'll get a word. First, according to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zarko Obradovic, will then, as the authorised representative of the Business, Jovan Palalic, and Lune Mijailovic reported on the replica before. The break is up to 15.10 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23599	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Predrag Mijailovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to tell Mr Meh Mehrovic, Mr Meho, you have to hear and understand one thing - that everyone carries their cheeks with them and their honor and morals. Maybe you don't know, Mr. Meso, that in 1990 I won the Uzic with 65% of Mr. Balsha Govedarica, an honorable and honest man, who was the best president in the pleasure area and in Užic during the postwar period. It's an honor and pride to me. That's when I won 65%, and my SPO party got only 28%. That's when I was offered to move to the SPS. I didn't do it because I thought that and what 28% of what I got from my party, I couldn't let it down. And that difference up to 65% wasn't my votes, they were votes because I belonged to the SPO. I worked for the SPO in 1992-1993. When I broke up with my party, that's when I told Mr. Vuk Draskovic I didn't want to be an MP anymore, I did the elections, and then I left the SPO. That's what all my brothers in the SPO know, and that's why I'm still honest with them, and I can look them straight in the eye. None of them said I was a traitor and I stole something from someone. After seven years, I became an MP in front of the DSS. This principle I applied with the SPO, I will always apply and I will never betray my voters and move to another party, sell my mandate and take a single dinar for that mandate. It's moral in politics. Mr Meso, if you have anything to say, go out and replicate it for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23601	The People's Messenger Milisav Petronijevic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23602	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've come to the floor this morning, expecting to speak about 11.00 hours. After that, I was in a dilemma whether to give it up and report to the Rules of Procedure, because it's clearly what it says here, with only one request -- to ask the President of the Assembly to protect the dignity of the Assembly. Because we had the opportunity today to see that the debate that began, which lasted in one correct way, where each presented its arguments, apparently targeted at one point, coming into the hall, flying here to the Assembly, was obviously the intention of Mrs Nestorovic and Mehe Omerovic, to present the Assembly in public as a lass. I'm asking the President of the Assembly to take care of it in the future. Secondly, before I say a few words about the national strategy itself, I want to say three things that I think are fact. First, that corruption is a devastating problem for Serbia, the highest, along with poverty, unemployment and, of course, public crime. I'm saying we'll all agree on that. It's also the fact that it's been passed a whole series of anti-corruption laws. The fact is, there are no parties who won't say they want to fight corruption. The fact is that there is political will, but it is also a third fact: in addition to all that, corruption is stronger, it has been proven, both by law, and by political will, by the Assembly and by all other bodies. So what's this about? We are ahead of us with a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy that is not disputed, determining in several points what the government intends to do and when to do so. That's not controversial. It's something else. I want to warn you, that's one of the reasons why I came out. The aim of this strategy, as it stands here, is to shape and recommend measures that will contribute in the short, medium and long term to curb corruption. Nothing controversial, and I don't think anyone would have anything to object to. What am I warning you about? This strategy that needs to be adopted must not be an alibi for everything that is not done. It can't be amnesty for all those bodies that don't do a legally established job. I want to say it clearly here at the pay phone. The strategy, as it stands here, includes three key elements: effective application of anti-corruption regulations, removing the possibility of corruption and public support for implementation. I don't mind being insisted here, noting that each other should be supported. I just want to warn the public that they won't support this story of fighting corruption until she's convinced they're really fighting it. With all due respect to the fight against corruption, where bribery appears, a 100-euro bribery, only when they are millions on the agenda, will the public then believe, then the public will provide support against corruption. Third, I would like to warn once again that here, according to this strategy, "unstableness, political situation and dissatisfaction of citizens at the speed and quality of changes in living conditions are factors that make it difficult to implement anti-corruption measures". It's just a matter of work. The implementation of anti-corruption measures does not prevent the dissatisfaction of citizens. The dissatisfaction of citizens is that anti-corruption measures are not being carried out. I think there's something a little messed up here. It is a dissatisfaction for citizens that the authorities in charge and the authorities in charge do not carry it out. The fifth chapter on the political system says that, among other things, the political system is often the source of some forms of corruption and the treatment of corruption as political accounts rather than criminal acts. True, but now I ask you, will the Parliament and all the authorities show clear will to prevent it? We've had so many examples. Let me ask you, the moment Batic was arrested, everything was raised alive, politically. Have someone arrest someone in the area, from the Democratic Party for corruption and criminal acts. It'll be a political misdemeanor right away. So that's not controversial. Sometimes it's political, and sometimes it's not, depending on what's on the agenda. Sixth, there's talk here about the measures that are foreseen in the Assembly. I would especially like to insist on this part of the anti-corruption strategy. I think we'll agree that the Serbian Parliament is in such a situation that everyone wants to bring it down outside the assembly. They killed themselves from proving that she was illegal, that there was all sorts of things, that things were done, etc. So I ask that the congregation show one of its dignity and one of its strengths. First of all, it's true that it hasn't been here in days, but it's been a long time talking about corruption. Please raise our voice as the Assembly as follows, to support the state authorities, to ask the state authorities to finish this job by the end and the public. If this story doesn't end with the prosecution and the police, then the Assembly will really be in a position for people to laugh and ask what's out there. And those are not all messengers. I listened by accident when journalists asked if the Assembly could discuss the fight against corruption when it was corrupt. Please, the Assembly is not corrupt, and those who have entered it, I ask vigorously to take action against them. One more thing, you've noticed these days through BK TV, a party bulletin from the Karic family party, one big noise towards the Assembly. We just heard one carrier, the other one's not here. I just want to remind you, corruption was brought to the Assembly by the Democratic Party from 2000 to 2003. That's when what they're saying came out, that's the same Democratic Party. In one case, when the SPS requested the withdrawal of its mandate under the applicable law of a group of MPs bought by the DS, it could not do so. At that time, the Constitutional Court has not yet made a famous decision that the term of office belongs to the MP. What's that? Wasn't it the DS that introduced the vote from Bodrum and Thessaloniki and all those who are actors today are on Serbia's political scene. Of course, they are now talking about the illegality of the congregation. I will state the freshest example, a year and a half ago, when MP Djokovic, who was elected on the DSS list, when DS wanted to buy it, kidnapped by the DSS, was corruption. She didn't invite Djokovic, so she told him - Mr. Djokovic, we want you to move in with us, return the mandate to the Democratic Party, so come. It's not and of course it's corruption. It's an attempt at kidnapping and not counting any further. Why am I asking him to react vigorously in this case and do the thing all the way? So that not all MPs would be in a position to justify themselves in public every day if they were. I'll give you another example, one man of honor. It's in the paper the other day, and news today is that a man bit a dog, not a human dog, has been released the name of Dragan S. Jovanovic, an MP from Belgrade. An honest man, a socialist, who has nothing to do with anything. His name was published under the title that reads - 200,000 euros. A man killed himself for days to explain that he wasn't the one, asked for denials. The news, though, has been announced, but Politics has not yet announced the deficits, and you know what the denials are. West when the tree shakes and the leaves spills, and the denials when we return the leaves to the tree. Because of such and such honorable people, this has to be done to the end and to know who did it, why he did it, and to take all the measures and all the consequences to withdraw, otherwise this way we'll all be under suspicion. I don't allow anyone, not the Assembly, not the president, to be in the crowd, as journalists say -- whether you have the moral right to talk about corruption when you're corrupt, when the Assembly is corrupt. Just a few more examples, in a piece that speaks about the public finances system, where I think the greatest source of the possibility of corruption. Once again I insist on it, a strategy as a political will, OK, something that we define as a set of measures, but a strategy that will amnest those who don't do their jobs, we don't need to. We didn't need a anti-corruption strategy to establish an effective budget implementation control. We don't need a strategy for that. I'll give you two examples. No final account has come to the Serbian Parliament since 2002. How he's going to carry out his control without saying anything else, how these funds have been spent, and we're waiting and we've been looking for that debate for a long time, to prove another thesis that stands in the strategy, not to apply to everything the same. Last time we set an example of Mr. God Jelicic and the sum for which he was accused, and an example of Gaša Knezevic, where it is a tenfold sum for the same thing. They told us where to sue Gashu Knezevic, right on the job. It's the same question in the final account. We don't have a chance, we haven't had a chance, but we also have this responsibility that we didn't insist on coming to the agenda, not only how it was spent, but also within all those positions as it seems. Take an example of Belgrade. In Belgrade, Mr Bogdanovic owns Belgrade and half a billion euros in budgets. It's like it's some money. Who can exercise that control or who is in control in Belgrade? When the citizens of Belgrade find out where all the money went, and you have one detail on the other, all those young DS guys who are in power went straight from the school benches, and now they own big limos, apartments, not to talk about anything else, etc. The mechanism of controlling the realisation of public procurement. Don't we have a mechanism of control through the Public Procurement Act? We're back in a position not to be able to handle it. Why? Because the authorities don't do their jobs, and they don't need this strategy, they have a strategy that's kind of an alibi to wait for the strategy. People have been bombarding us for days, saying that the tender is the greatest scam of the people, with thousands of examples. Here's another example, the City Traffic Company in Belgrade, where people complain, complain, come on, people, let's get it all out. The same bus FAP sells to the City Traffic Company for one sum, the city doesn't buy, but buys from privates that same bus, with the same numbers of chess and motors, of course, for more expensive money. Do we need a strategy for something like that? I'll give you one more detail to leave enough time for my colleagues, I apologize. There's one question about creating reliable mechanisms in employees' companies that want to report corruption, that's to ensure their safety. Now I'm just asking, if that's something that's going to be done, I'm interested in how it's going to be done, because that's a very important question, without co-operation with citizens, I'm sure it can't be solved. Please, look at the example, a group of workers at the Sava Centre, again Belgrade, referred to a notion of how to steal, how to read the final accounts and the rest. The audit that was, she confirmed it and what was the result? A warning they'll get fired because it's not in their job description. How do you think we can protect these people without whom we can't get into the fight against corruption without their cooperation without help? I once again warn, I call on the public to get involved in this, because without public support it is not possible. But I am warning the government, until it begins to address the most important issues of corruption, the public will not come forward because of this 100-euro issue, even if it should be done. And I also call on the public from the point of view to see what their approach is to those who, when they are to be given a mandate, recognise and support the party, and when they are offered something else, suddenly their party is not good, something is ugly, bad, unsatisfactory, etc. But they can't think of a way to get their mandate back. Finally, to conclude, a strategy as a political will that, as a list of measures when it is necessary to do that, but strategy as an alibi and amnesty for what is not done absolutely not, and we are not looking for the impossible, but possible must be done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23603	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23604	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, already far away in 1988, the SRS, then with a rating that was in a terrible rise, aware that in some of the next elections it would win so many mandates that it would probably exercise power in Serbia, led by national interests and aware of the dangers that it was over Serbia, makes a decision to join the Government of the People's Unity, knowing that it would reduce both our rating and that it would be harmful to the interests of the party, however, the state interest has prevailed. On the same day after the decision was made, the President of the SRS, Professor Vojislav Seselj, in this small hall, invites all MPs and candidates to perform public functions, candidates for ministers, deputy ministers, assistant ministers and other officials and tells them that we may come out of the government as not smart enough, not capable enough, not qualified enough, but that we will never leave the government as thieves, as criminals, as people who are corrupt. He paid particular attention to the fact that, personally, he would demand that SRS officials, in particular the SRS, who disobeyed the code of moral Serbian radicals be severely punished, at the cost of causing the government to fall. It was forbidden for every MP and SRS official to go to the government or the ministry. Mr. Krasic, my Nislija, I haven't seen him in weeks because he didn't come home for work, to Nis, and I couldn't come to the Ministry. And that is how our president wanted to reduce any possibility of influence, agreement, lobbying and other co-operation that would be, or that would interfere with the ministry's work or lead to some inappropriate behaviour. I wanted to tell you that this is now done because we now think, and the citizens of Serbia know that corruption starts at the top, that it is good to hear that several doctors are occasionally arrested for 100 euros, 200 euros, which some police officer is suspended for receiving 20 euros instead of paying 50 euros. There is much less news of the arrest of those who produce the biggest affairs, of the crime committed at the state summit and being conducted by state officials. Says the minister, we will pass a law that will examine that someone who has received, or created, a million-euro value, and annually reported a 100,000-euro income to explain where it comes from. Start the ministers, you can do it right now, because there are laws and why don't we force the governor of the National Bank to tell us where that villa, which may cost him 380,000 euros, as he says, and maybe a million and a half, as others claim. Or, let's see with that affair, let's make it through the existing law to the end. The Swedes sold us, these aren't even teenage girls anymore, 25 years old, so they're drowning, and the Swedes are looking forward to selling us these locomotives, and they married them well. And I remember very well that 30 years ago, for the purposes of that community of JJ, there was a certain number of 742 series locomotives that no longer ran a mile on our tracks, because they were completely bad, not equipped for work, they were some Czechoslovakia machines, made by French license, and that up until a few years ago in the Machine industry they were standing their armor, or what was left of those locomotives. There's probably something in there, someone took a fat commission, like it used to be. What about those affairs that rocked the government, with Ericson's scholarship company, what about the military affair, and one minister accusing a member of his party, Davinic, of doing damage, of taking advantage of certain material benefits, that's not being solved, but that's why we hear that a police officer who took 50 euros has been arrested. All right, he needs to be arrested, too. Let's set some measures for those who have done much more damage. It's not corruption when you give someone money or when you take money from someone. Corruption is when by misusing a public function, you allow someone to illegally benefit from it. We now hear on TV and here in the hall accusing Boris Tadic of, while acting as chairman of JP PTT's Management Board "Serbia", allowing Bogoljub Karic to acquire an enormous wealth, to acquire some value that does not belong to him. He was guilty, knew or not, he was in such a place where he made it possible, and then we still launched an action to initiate Boris Tadic's impeachment, but you who are talking about it now voted against it, so by abuse of authority in your public sector in order to benefit someone else, you did the work of corruption. Because what's the use? The benefit is that there will be no debate about Boris Tadic's impeachment, and when similar things are brought to light and about Karic and Tadic and others who have committed abuses. You say that the causes of corruption, economic, structure and transformation of ownership, political, outdated or inadequate constitution, non-application or selective application of regulations, the existence of legal gaps, the absence or non-functioning of institutions etc. Now I ask: who is responsible for this, Mr. Minister? A government that's in power today. This government is not an English queen, to rule and not decide. The government has its powers under jurisdiction, and under the laws proposed by the Assembly, the National Assembly adopted. After all, how can citizens be satisfied with their material status or changes if they do not have a better life? Do you know how many former ministers there are, there's no dogs to bite them for, they own a huge fortune. I see one of those every day in Nis. He was a prime minister, he was a minister, he was a federal minister. That's what he tells the citizens, see, if he could get it, if he could take it, so nothing happened to him, which I wouldn't take 100 euros. And yet as it is, we couldn't teach him five years to tie a tie in the simplest way, and he was prime minister in this country. Ladies and gentlemen, I've found a lot of things here, but time is moving fast and there are a lot of MPs who want to speak, I'd just like to draw your attention to one definition. He says, introducing a ban on party activity for certain categories of functionors. You know, you have to explain here, it can be a party official, because if we talk everywhere about public function holders, it should also stand there -- the introduction of a ban on party activity for certain categories of public function holders, so that it doesn't identify it to prohibit some party officials from dealing with politics. In the end, you really surprise me, one of the many things I've found here, I'm not going to read them now, is the right to an independent judicial budget. Do you remember, Mr. Minister, that Tomislav Nikolic spoke of it almost 30 minutes ago and said that we would not have an independent judiciary, an independent prosecutor's office, we will not have good work by the judicial authorities, that we will not have all of this as a proposal for a measure if we do not have an independent judicial budget. Mr. Minister, what is happening now, for corruption, is not only responsible for this government, but this government continues to work on the work of the previous governments, not taking the measures at its disposal, offering us some declarations, proposals that you know everyone would agree with, but this will not prevent corruption in Serbia, preventing the application of laws and proposing laws that you will propose and the National Assembly will adopt. At the very end, I'm sure this government won't be able to implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23605	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Sredoje Mihailov, and a notice that today we will extend the working day, in case there is a need, until the end of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23606	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, so here I am going to start with a Jewish anecdote. When a Jew went to Rabin, he said, he has a son and it's time to start bringing him up, and Rabin asks how old he is, says three, and you're very, very late to start your education. I'll start with my impression, when in the 1990s, in 1991, 1992, we started to deal with opposition work, we always said in the stands that we were going to pass at least some of the four most important laws, with which we wanted to start a new government, it was a law on denationalisation, a law on opening files, a law on the origin of property and a national strategy on the fight against corruption. Of course, fighting corruption is not enough just one law, it takes a lot of laws, it takes a lot of change in relationships in society, it takes one long-term action, a lot of action, and we already mentioned where everything is rooted. It's been abandoned and for many years it hasn't worked on that problem, and I think for the health of one nation, such as health care, such as education, like other laws, let's say, as perhaps a spatial plan, which is important right after the Constitution. I don't think we can, I wouldn't agree with Mr. Krasic, that this is exactly what should be called a national strategy. I welcome that all parties have accepted that with this problem it will be neither easy nor simple, but to bring it down into some European frameworks, not to be the fair merchants, the petty con men, but to be gentlemen, to entangle that name and somehow show the young people that it is. This mentions institutions where it should be controlled and where control should be most introduced. That's what our people know, they know our public opinion, they're these pointers where there's the most dissatisfaction. It has been said very much in the assembly, and I agree, I think that the Assembly should begin, and we should begin with the MPs, just to see which one they should all be responsible for their actions. I'm also ready for my own to answer for everything I've done. I'd remind you, here in this material you have, which is economic and socio-political reasons and if I didn't read everything to you, I'd just stick around here to destroying the moral values of society and public apathy. Here, let me read to you: economic, market economy endangerment, social product reduction, reduction of investment, increasing the country's debt and increasing citizens' poverty; political, endangering democratic institutions, increasing the cost of functioning the state, mistrust of citizens in the state institutions, spreading organised crime and these two last ones, which I have mentioned, are the destruction of the moral values of society and public apathy. I think that's where we're dressed, which our people would say, the emperor to the tobacco store. We must finally regain consciousness and realize that our institutions are poisoned and that there is a great treatment and a great preparation. What's most important is, and I said, destroying the moral values of society, which is that we are now ready and our people are ready to say that all doctors are corrupt, that all judges are corrupt, that all militants are corrupt, that all customs officers are corrupt, that all officials in local self-government are corrupt. That's where they put them all in the same bag, and in the same basket, and I think when laws are passed, and you lawyers say that, it's better for ten guilty people to be out of jail than for an innocent man to be in jail. I think we do the greatest insult to those who are truly honorable and honest and who do honorably their jobs. Such an climate has been created in the country of Serbia that we no longer believe there is an honorary doctor, an honorable and honest judge, a corrupt customs officer, a police officer, and that I don't list everything again. So, Professor, let me tell my colleagues they're putting them in that same class. They're little sinners, but there's a class of them that are all corrupt, all of them in order. I'd like to change that public opinion, change the public. You gentlemen had two discussions today. One of them was great, and I thought it would be all over the paper, and it would be full of newspapers, and that's Mr. Zeljko Ivanji's discussion. I'm worried because he showed great courage. I agree with Mrs. Ljilja Nestorovic that everyone is going to the DA's office and exactly what Mr. Zeljko said, and he should go before the public prosecutor, so if he is fair he can prove the origin of his property, and we don't mind leaving it with him, mention Mr. Karic, where he has been brought up a lot. The discussion seemed to have taken her in a different direction on purpose. Believe me, tomorrow the paper will announce whether it was 15 minutes ago to give those papers or after 15 minutes, and that will interest our public more than it did with Mobtel. That's amazing, because we created such a climate. Here, from a personal example, people were messing with the cards and I said I saw that they were messing with it. None of them did it was my fault, everyone spits me out. But, well, that's Serbia, that's who we are, that's what we are, but that's why I came here and that's why I'm in the party that does it and that shows it. We, gentlemen, accused ours of doing it unconsciously, and the DSS gentlemen also took the judges to prison, and the Supreme Court and these all when they noticed that they were not well, and the police, etc. We don't say we've done all the best, but we've given a strategy, we're behind it and we're looking for your support. Of course, you have to point to the argument, and when you show us, you have our consent in advance and you have us to confirm that we're going to do it. When, gentlemen, you come to power, and you will have our support for what you do. The strategy is not adopted for one power and for one government, it is long-term. We would just like to stop this fall of moral values in Serbia. You haven't read in the papers almost for some decent and honest man. When they were celebrating someone that the knightly did something, that he was extremely honest and that we could commend him? I think that's what we expect from this long-term strategy. I am happy that after a long time there is some consensus of parties who support this and, of course, I am happy that G17 plus suggested it, that it will enter the history of taking care of Serbian consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23607	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23608	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must really say that this debate has been interesting so far and that, if anything, we have heard some very interesting data. In fact, we heard openly from G17 plus that their minister, or minister proposed by their party, was a thief, but they were nice enough to replace him. The only thing we have left to do is to see how the state authorities will bring this job to an end, or you, instead of Davinic, will send him to prison, decide to send him to an exotic country to be there, an ambassador or a consul, to repay him in that way, and to forget these promises here that you make to the citizens of Serbia. It was also very interesting to hear that these judges who went to prison were members of the DSS, as Mr. Mihajlov said so, but we still have to see from these other parties of the ruling coalition that they are, is it possible that only you are going through that lustration, or is it also possible for these other parties that make up this so-called. a democratic ruling block of someone corrupt, so that we can eventually expect in the coming days that one of them will end up in prison. It was also interesting what you said about some of your co-workers yesterday, about your political thinkers, members of that democratic bloc. It is really good to hear that there are reliable data provided by Boris Tadic, while he was chairman of the PTT Management Board, enabled Bogoljub Karic to sign and implement contracts that enabled Ekrem Luka to do around 1 million euros, if I understood correctly, of monthly income, from which the lobbying of Haradinaj, Albanian lobbyists around the world and Kosovo's independence was financed. But what we needed you to answer, which was more important, is why did you and Boris Tadic support it? Why is there enough support for that and Boris Tadic against Tomislav Nikolic, for which none of you can say a bad word? And he certainly can't say that he's ever stolen anything in his life. So you should be more careful what you recommend to your voters, behind whom you politically stand. You should also answer the question why do you support again, two days ago, this and that, Boris Tadic, who is taking your mandates? Did you know before that Boris Tadic was a thief? Looks like it. But now that he wanted to put his hand in your pocket, when he wanted to take your mandates, now you're saying it's no good. Then why didn't you let the debate on the face and work of Boris Tadic be on the agenda? It doesn't mean there would be a referendum in Serbia, but it might. Why didn't you, if you've already let such Democrats, let it be on the agenda, and then the parliamentary majority, in accordance with their own safety, decide whether we should eventually check with the citizens what they think of Boris Tadic now? Let's leave this story for another time, let's go back a little bit to this decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy. I really must say that I was surprised to read what you wrote in this strategy. I think that with no bigger problems, with a change of a few sentences, this document could have been called a proposal to discuss the confidence of the government of Vojislav Kostunica. In this strategy, you are making the most of the possible accusations against yourself. You've best qualified the society we live in today. The best of you and the most transparent, as you like to say, is the number and extent of corruption prevailed in Serbia, in a clear way to make it clear that institutions do not function, that the state authorities do not function, that corruption simply prevailed at all levels, from the top to the bottom of that state structure, or the state scale. You say yourself that some important anti-corruption laws have been passed, but that the fight against corruption has not yielded sufficient results, and that cases have been processed in a large disproportionate manner with the number of occurrences suspected. You say a little further that no matter what you've passed, some anti-corruption laws, that they're not in line because they were brought before this document. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask why you're messing with us here? On page six, you say, "Some anti-corruption measures were taken before the adoption of a strategic anti-corruption document, so they are not compatible enough." So don't play with this parliament, and if you're already bringing a strategy, and you want it to be on a long term, or about ten years, it was necessary to think it over first, and then you say on the subject of what you have. You, in your time, when you passed those laws, convinced us that they were the best possible, and right now, it's been maybe a few months since the adoption of the last, and of some Gods and a few days, such as the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, and you're telling us today that these documents are not sufficiently consistent with this strategy. Next, you talk about the international standards that have been reached and then list the ratified conventions. I must warn you that you have ratified some conventions, that it does not mean that they have been implemented, or that they have been implemented. If they were implemented in action, we wouldn't have the kind of problem that we have with corruption today and wouldn't be on the list of countries that precede corruption at the very top. In the cause of corruption, you say, among other things, under political reasons for corruption, that it is outdated and unsuitable to the Constitution. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, which one of you is and how it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since she is here officially proposing, could evaluate and assess that the Constitution has become obsolete and unsuitable. Show me, please, what are the provisions in the Serbian Constitution that prevent you from fighting corruption. I think it is clear to everyone that such provisions simply do not exist, and that what is missing is that the fight against corruption would be more effective than you later on in this document and that is a lack of political will. You say that the political system plays a very important role in the fight against corruption and that political system actors' resolve and ability to deal with corruption depends on success. The only thing that can come out of this, given how much corruption we have in mind, is that, as you say, the resolve and ability of the political system's factors, in this case the ruling set, to deal with corruption, of which, in a direct proportion, your success, is simply zero. If you had at least a fraction of that political will, which you declared at the beginning of your mandate, not to mention pre-election promises, I think the situation in Serbia would be much better and happier than it is. Furthermore, the political system is often the source of some forms of corruption. Here, gentlemen of the ruling coalition, we have to agree, especially in the state of Serbia. I don't have enough time to talk about everything in detail, but in each of these chapters, or areas you're proposing -- whether it's the police, whether it's the judiciary or anything -- the adoption of appropriate ethical codes. As someone said, the more of these ethical codes, the less ethics. Generally, those who are willing to comply with the law do not need the ethical code, because it is, in its essence, much more mandatory than those ethical norms that should be just upgrades. You're trying to keep those who don't want to comply with the laws with the ethical codes. That, gentlemen and ladies, can't work. It didn't work out anywhere, and it's not gonna work with us either. Furthermore, you're saying you're going to enter a special record of the legal persons convicted of criminal acts and the ban on participating in public tenders. For the first time in a few days ago, when the Bank Act was adopted, a criminal offence was introduced, i.e. a criminal offence for legal persons. As far as I know, it's in our justice system first. I think it's something that our judicial system is corrupting, which is a completely freakish creation. Especially when we heard the minister that only France has something similar in its legal order and has extremely negative experiences, then it's really unclear what you're trying to say with this. You're saying that periodic mandatory analysis of the work of detection, prosecution and trial should be introduced. Mr. Minister, what are the organs of the trial? You'll admit, it looks like something else. Our judiciary should be an independent, independent judiciary, and in no case should it be an organ of the trial. You may have so-called. The departments of power and law enforcement, detection, but the authority of the trial, as far as I know, in our legal system, at least until now, didn't exist. Furthermore, you yourself say that rules governing government work, public agencies, citizens' protectors, state administrations, territorial autonomy, local self-government, civil service officials, administrative proceedings and administrative disputes should be improved. So, all of this, I'm going to finish there, although there's a lot to talk about, what you wrote in this national anti-corruption strategy is a list and a set of the most difficult charges against the ruling coalition and the government of the Republic of Serbia. What you wrote here is just another way to distract the citizens of Serbia a little bit. This is pure politics. You would have been better off if you had implemented some of this strategy instead of trying to promise Serbian citizens once again something you have no intention of fulfilling at the time of your adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23609	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. The Prime Minister Stojkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic, and the People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić, and the People's Messenger Verica Radet, and the Messenger of Radisa Ilic. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23610	I've listened very carefully to these statements, especially this last one. Honestly, I have an impression that I can't get away from. I suggest you read Borhes -- "Don Quixote," to read that story about the man who prescribed Cervantes, but that's not the "Don Quixote" who wrote Cervantes 400 years ago. I think that's where the problem lies - the concept. You have a statement of condition, you have what is done. I'll read you a few things, since you say the government didn't do it. He's not accusing the government, I'm just saying, and I suggest you read this illustration necessarily, so you'll see how you can interpret something that's long been cleared up. For example, we've brought in a Code of Criminal Code with thirty new acts, where criminal acts have been incorporated from ratified conventions. We even, so as not to waste time, because I say that we've lost many years of transition period, we've done something that's good, from those signed and unwarranted, we've brought in crimes. So we've got them. You have a law on money laundering. He only implements the criminal acts provided for in the Criminal Code, meaning he gives a better fight against that part of crime. We did the Law on the jurisdiction of state authorities to combat organised crime, the Law on the Protection of Participants in criminal proceedings, the Law on Criminal Procedure itself, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, the Law on State Administration, the Law on the Protection of Citizens, the Ombudsman that we did not have, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, the Law on Free Access to Information, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. I'm saying, given the condition that we've found, in addition to all this we've done, there's a series of problems that could be permanently done. We don't get carried away by some story that we can do it overnight. We've had a lot of campaigns in this country, so they say -- now we're going to have a hand, today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and finally -- nothing. Corruption is a phenomenon that exists in every society. To fight it properly, we need to have a valid system of measures. This recommendation, and it was about political will, I expect from these debaters that political will exists to really deal with this. If it exists, this is a system of recommendations, what every area, what every organ should do. And you saw point two, which says it's up to the government to do action programs, to get every organ to do it and a third, independent body, which controls it, puts proposals, etc. We didn't have that. That's where the problem came in. Partial solutions don't give results. So we have to do something like a permanent solution. I'll tell you right now, nobody's fooled by the fact that it can be done overnight. The one who says that, I say he's not telling the truth. On the other hand, the projected measures that are given here speak of something, that some can be arranged in the short term, some needed in the medium term, and some must remain permanent. You can have a man with the best intentions, as soon as he's out of control, I'm afraid he can do the wrong thing. So there will always have to be something that we have to introduce as an element of this system that controls and asks for work. We didn't talk here about some things, which are even misread. It's just that something is said, this strategy, I am convinced that this body, as the highest legislative body, is the body that expresses political will and determines the strategy of what should be done in some areas. One of these is the fight against corruption. That's why it's the second point here to order that body to the government to do it. If the government doesn't do it, then we can talk about whether the government did or didn't, but leave the government with one found state in a year and a half, a good number of these debaters were much longer in power, so nothing was done. I read these laws, none of them existed then. If we look at things like that, we won't come up with a solution. Listening to these discussions today, I have convinced myself that there is indeed a political will to do something about it. If that's where we agree, then let's bring this strategy. So, rightly, you can ask the government a question over time: did you do something to the government in line with these recommendations? Because the second point says something precise, you have to bring in action programs, you have to predict exactly what needs to be done. Is this assembly going to bring, I ask, the law, and establish an independent body that will control everything, including the government, to ask even the government if she did it? If we agree that the problem of corruption is great, then we must have a unique political will to solve it. The other thing is said here, and I don't think it stands. It's said we're at the top of corruption. That's not true. When we got there, there were four countries behind us, we're fifth in the back of the bad ones, today we're dividing 92 out of 102 places, I'm speaking according to the estimates of Transparent International. You can take a look, and you'll see in the last. So we're going somewhere in the middle. I'm not saying it's good, let's understand each other right now, even in the last year, the last nine months have been estimated by 0.1% to move towards the better. So it's not standing, it's not stagnating, it's moving something. It's not good, because we're a country that's been through both wars and transition, unlike other countries that, if nothing else, at least didn't have wars. You all know how wars cause problems. I don't have to quote to you now our famous writer who says that when the wars start, they say "heroes" behind them, the lifers and others, and when it's over, they just say "left circle". And we've had this situation, and that's why we have this problem, and we need to solve it, but don't keep looking black, because it's not true. You're saying there's no procedure. I'm saying he's got them. Here, against Davinic, as far as I know, that object is being handled. I know it's an official statement from UBPOK to collect data, for example. for the National Savings Bank. What kind of data will gather, I don't know. I know there are 10-20 procedures standing. It is also the fact that because of a certain situation, perhaps even in the means of information, someone has no interest in publishing it, the fact is that perhaps because of the situation found in the judiciary you have a very slow course of these proceedings. That's where I'll agree with you. But it's not true that everything is black and it's not there. At the end of the line, a good number of procedures, ever since we came here, have been launched, which is for receiving and giving bribes, which is for abuse or unconscious work. Then let's not say nothing's been done. I think some people know that. They're also in contact with the court. For twenty years I was a judge, there were three or four cases of receiving and giving bribes to judges. When the judge did, it knew all of Serbia. Today you have over 40 procedures, which are for receiving and giving bribes, abuse of position. I'm talking about both judges and presidents, and prosecutors, and warlocks, because when an expert does so in court proceedings, he commits a criminal act related to the judiciary, not his profession as a doctor, engineer or customs officer. So it's done, but this is done because it's shown that if we go partially, you can never get the whole, and some measures need to be permanent and constantly applied. Let's not kid ourselves that there are no more corrupt countries in better organized countries. There is. I'll give you an example that's probably familiar to you, but you're keeping it quiet. In these best European countries, there was one country that has legally determined the possibility of corruption, so she said she could negotiate up to 5% of the commission. Other EU countries have said they cannot do this for several reasons. One is that we have unfair competition. Secondly, if we have taken the view that the budgets of all countries should be used for the benefit of citizens, you cannot allow 5% to go into individual pockets, but must be in the interest of citizens. The third thing, which was most important, I think it's the most important thing for us, and I see that's what we pleaded for, if that's how we treat corruption, then the citizen has no awareness that corruption is a dangerous act. So, for moral healing and for proper perception of the dangers of corruption, of creating anti-corruption consciousness, such things cannot be allowed. The country has been forced to change its rules, even though it is a powerful country. So let's not look all black or ignore it. We have to do this. When we talk about citizens, if we're creating a black picture like this, make sure there's nothing we can do. On the contrary, we have to involve citizens with these measures. That's enough of that period, and you all remember it well, when the rule was in force in this people, so they say "a thief," and he says "a businessman," and they say "honest," and they say "a fool". We need to change that concept of morality in this society. A moral man is moral and a thief is a thief. Until we do, which we need at least here a common agreement that this people need. Believe me, corruption is so dangerous because it threatens even the survival of the state itself. If we don't solve it and don't bring it down to some reasonable measure, I won't fool myself, corruption and any other phenomena, not to name them now, since society exists, but when you have a valid measure and a valid system that controls it, it's stuck to some as-so-sufficient line. For these reasons, I would ask that, if there are any suggestions here, because they will then enter those action programs, I suggest we deal with it more, so that we all help each other, that we don't go very politically -- who did this, who did it, why did it. We've all seen the problem. I sincerely believe that there is a unique political will in this congregation that we must resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23611	Replica, MP Nemanja Sarovic. I apologize, just to read the correct order: MP Vojkan Tomic, MP Vojislav Milajić, MP to the people, Hranislav Peric, MP to Radisa Ilic. Mr. Sarovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23612	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the minister's answer was very exhausted, but in that capacity, the minister tried to cloud things a little bit. What I said was that this document is exactly the most difficult accusation against the government of Vojislav Kostunica and against that concept that you're trying to represent, of course, I remain in that position, but now I'm going to concentrate a little more on this head bearing the name - the judicial system and the police, precisely because your portfolio is that. Then you say, "Independence, impartiality, efficiency and accountability in judicial institutions and police are the condition of building a rule of law, and their empowerment is the primary task." If your portfolio is just a judiciary, let's go to the judiciary. You say, "Recommendations: establishing clear and uniform criteria for proposing and selecting judges and public prosecutorial functions and their resolution". That's exactly what we resented when the relevant laws were passed, and when you passed the Law on Judges, and the Law on Court Order, and on Public Prosecutors and all the other laws that have just regulated this area. We then resented you that there are no clear criteria either for choice, or for resolution. You say "the ban on political action of judicial officials". Isn't political action forbidden by judicial officials? Who were you referring to, the President of the Constitutional Court of Vučetic? Did you mean his political engagement? There is already a ban, but what you need, Mr. Stojkovic, and your government to do, is to enforce these bans, so if a ban breaks, then it fits. This kind of ban, like a dead letter on paper, means absolutely nothing. You're still saying to skip this time, I touched it just before the trial's organs, but it says, "Instituting the continuity of the function of the public prosecutor's office." The public prosecutor's office is already permanent. I don't know if this means that you adopt the concept of the SRS, I would like it to be that the replacement function is permanent, so that the deputy prosecutors throughout Serbia, however many there are, are professionals, and that the current authority is allowed to appoint public prosecutors and thus influence, possibly, some flows. I think that solution is much more rational, much better. I'm glad you can see how much better our opinion was than yours. You're still saying, "The independence of the judiciary budget." You've been telling us about this independence for a long time, but there's no such thing as independence. Here, the budget was adopted a few days ago, no independence of the court budget. (President: Time. You say, "Acceleration of court proceedings." We thought that it was over the moment you passed the new Law on a litigation procedure, that the acceleration of the execution of the verdict was over and that it would function perfectly the moment you passed the Law on the executive procedure. At least you convinced us that was the case. It's just that you here directly admit that what you said isn't true. (President: Time. I'm done. You're still saying, "Elimate the influence of political structures on pre-crisis proceedings." You don't think that we in the SRS can influence in any way in a pre-crisis procedure. Did you mean here to dismiss the criminal charges against Natasa Kandic for public harassment when she invented that Tomislav Nikolic allegedly killed some civilians in Antino? Then some political structures took advantage of the influence that even before criminal proceedings were committed, they eliminate any possibility of proving in court that Natasa Kandic is a liar. So, Mr. Stojkovic, I'd really like to read a lot of other things here, but you're going to have to come out one more time and give me a chance for a replica so that I don't have what Mr. Markovic insists on breaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23613	The People's Messenger Vojkan Tomic has the word, and the Messenger of the people Vojislav Milajić, and the Messenger of the people, Hranislav Peric, and Radisa Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23614	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of my presentation, I'd like to say something, I don't think Mr. Sarovic heard well when he said they were DSS judges. He forgot, something was wrong. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, I would like to say at first that this is one of the fundamental elements proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is foreseen by the Action Plan on Joining the European Union. I know that there are political opponents who would not want to enter the European Union at all, but that is their political commitment, but for us entering the European Union is a strategic national goal and we are not hiding it, and the DSS and each member can say that it is for that and that the entire parliamentary club will stand behind this strategy. However, when we talk about corruption, when we listen to these fine statements about this strategy today, we have to deal with corruption as a social problem, because this is not a problem or a position, it is not a problem or an opposition, it is not a problem of the DSS, nor of the G17, nor of the SRS, it is a problem deeply founded in Serbian society and it makes problems for all reforms, the modernisation of Serbian society, the economy and all other segments. This deep rooting is evident in some examples that we can hear daily on the street from our citizens that corruption came from those famous 200 grams of coffee when it comes to doctors or when it comes to municipal administration in Serbia and in our society. But it's not exactly like that. This government has shown that it is ready in this strategy to show in what state we are now in and to show exactly what it has done and what it will do in the future. If we have a period behind us where the system itself was based on corruption, a major fundamental problem is the reform of the institutions themselves. After 2000, when it started to reform institutions, it was only then that it was seen how many Serbian institutions were destroyed. It's not just a period during the ruling of the SPS, and long before that, the Communist Party that's been since World War II and beyond. On every government that wants to transform Serbian society, the primary task is to build institutions and DSS repeatedly and persistently repeat that it is a fundamental basis for fighting such evil as corruption. The second basic element for fighting corruption, as a social problem, is raising the awareness of Serbian citizens not to go into corruption even when it is not necessary. Today you have a case where a citizen goes to the municipal administration, used to perhaps from the previous system that he needs to carry something to give to an official in the municipal administration, not knowing that it's a simple request that he might receive in 15 minutes or an hour. Here we come to another issue that is needed to raise citizens' awareness, which is informing citizens. All institutions that work directly with citizens must address the issue of informing citizens, their rights, but of course also obligations. It is not only those who are in certain places that are corrupt because, thanks to the function in which they are located, they are destined to be corrupt. There are also those citizens who think they can do it the easy way, faster, over a relationship, one way or another to get some benefits by potentially corrupting someone in a certain place. The government, which is currently in power, has shown it has the strength to fight corruption. We can see that on some examples and arrests of judges, we recently had a broken session when we had to lift immunity from one of the judges for receiving a 1,000-euro bribe, and then we have a case in Smederev with fake disability pensions, we have various cases that have been launched, and now we can accept some criticism and regrets that this is not resolved quickly enough. Because in other countries that have similar problems, we don't have to go far, we can see in our immediate neighbourhood, such as Romania and Bulgaria, candidates for inclusion in the European Union, have the biggest grudges in these areas by partners from the European Union, which are the fight against corruption and judicial reform. We are nothing specific, nor in particular in this fight against corruption, have other similar problems. However, what we are specific to, which seems to be the invention of the Serbian political scene, is corruption at the highest political level aimed at decommissioning the political system, as it is. Today we attended a debate that was dedicated to that very thing. Perhaps Mr Krasic would say something more about this because he has already talked about the corruption at the highest political level, when certain parties without votes enter parliament and thus break down the political system, but somewhat later on. Two important elements, which are very needed in the fight against corruption, are media and civil society. When we talk about the media, first of all I mean building a public service, which will be based on those elements that serve exclusively as a service of citizens. The moment we have the head of state radio television not politically appointed director, editor, editor of political sections, information program, we will have an adequate public service. Of course, here we could hear the need for greater civil society activity. Yeah, but it's not just NGOs, the ones we can hear from this pay phone to make up civil society. That is not true, of course, what we hear, Sonja Biserko, Natasa Kandić, etc. It can be fooled by other segments of society, but we don't want to get into it. We can define it another way. I am talking about that part of civil society that aims to raise socially active citizens of Serbia, who, by their work in their midst, raise awareness of all those who are in the field of dealing with certain work within society, and these NGOs believe me. These are the organizations that need to get some space in the media because they are seeking to raise the quality of our citizens' social life. We have a completely distorted picture of the role of the NGO sector, and also of those from the NGO sector, one part of these already mentioned ones, and they aim to be against the government, to be against parliament, to be against political parties, while in other countries developed Western democracies, of course, it is a priority goal, but it is a priority objective of working together on certain projects that lead to the democratisation of society, which lead to a better and better social life for all citizens, regardless of what social layers they live in. When we talk about them, we talk about the rights and essential NGOs. Of course, when we talk about building public service and independent media, on the other hand, we also have fully dependent media, which are in private hands, which we have on the case of BK TV, Karic's TV, which serves as a billboard of political promotion of his Serbian Force Movement, which simply poisons not only the political scene, but is poisoning the public scene, where everything that Serbian citizens do is unthinking. But given the people that this man, who is destroying the political system of the Republic of Serbia, is surrounded, how did he get the money, we heard from Mr. Ivanji, billions and billions of euros, dollars, in various ways, but just to remind you, what are his associates that he is gathering? I don't know if you remember the name - Srdjan Blagojevic. Do you remember who Srdjan Blagojevic is? Former director of PTT. The former PTT director is now one of Bogoljub Karic's closest associates. And how the public found out about him. Well, it was that correspondence with Prime Minister Zivkovic's cabinet and some famous 9% sale of the PTT's share of "Mobtel", so we see how corruption and through which models can be applied from a political point of view, through economic miles, how it all goes back to its place. For example, Boris Stajkovac, famous interiorist, creator of several cafes in Belgrade, a man who is otherwise known for being a great humanitarian, one of Bogoljub Karic's closest associates, but in such a way as to assume that it is very easy to do humanitarian work, to be a humanitarian from some beautiful yacht in the Adriatic, the Black Sea, etc. There's also your famous Piccelle. Do you know who Pixel is? Pixel is one of Karic's closest associates, who is an organisational secretary on his executive board, otherwise found out from the DS because he was lurking about some lighters, propaganda material, and he was chased by people, because he probably wanted to do something about the party. Or this Tihomir Simic, who runs the quasi-cial delegations of the president of his party, etc. However, there is still a lot of material, but I don't want to talk about it because of my colleagues, I will return to the beginning of my presentation, which is that at least as much as we are politically arguing here in the Serbian Parliament, that enough or not has been done to fight corruption, this strategy is one of the basic documents that it paints and we are in a difficult state, but it reflects what we have to fight for, what we will stand for, and while this government, which is now at the head of politics in the Republic of Serbia, we will advocate to work on this strategy, which we will adopt in the Serbian Parliament in a few days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23615	National MP Nemanja Sarovic, a replica, mentioning the name, was not in an offensive context, but I guess that's the wrong interpretation, you'll already explain. After that, Vojislav Milajic, then Hranislav Peric, Radisa Ilic, are the next speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23616	Mr. Tomic wrongly said that I heard wrong about the judges and the DSS, but you can check the stenogram, that's exactly what Mr. Sredoje Mihajlov said. So he cited the ruling coalition's readiness to deal with corruption, so as an example, G17 dealt with Davinic and the DSS with those judges. I didn't hear it wrong, I didn't make it up, it was said by a member of your coalition, so go ahead, make a deal with each other, and then come out and tell us if it's true that you're willing to deal with it first of all from your ranks, whether it's true or not, or even what you've cited as an example is not true. We move on, suppressing, saying, corruption within the judicial administration. Is it possible that the Minister of Justice is telling us about corruption in the judiciary without doing anything to prevent it? It further says, the formation of independent and specialised artificial institutions in criminal proceedings. This is also a very difficult accusation, and all those who once had ties to the court or worked know the importance of skill. If you claim here that we don't have independent and independent artificial institutions, then gentlemen for this country is a very big problem. It is said to further eliminate political criteria for selecting police personnel in favour of professionalism. The following principle is a ban, i.e. the next process of action, a ban on the political functioning of police personnel. What are you trying to tell us here? That by now, on political criteria, you've chosen police personnel, but in the future you'll try to do less. So then, he says, consistent application of the principle of state administration's work: depoliticalisation, professionalisation, rationalisation, modernisation, open government. So why don't you apply these principles now? Secondly, you've reminded us well of that open government of yours. We laughed here all together when you suggested it. No one knew in advance to tell us what an open government meant, so tell us now. Did someone nail that open government of yours? Do you today, I don't even know how long it's been since the adoption of the law in the government, do you know what this open government is for you today, where those doors are that you opened? You're still saying, setting up a mechanism to control the realisation of public procurement. Did you mean those locomotives that were purchased for the ZTP or were you referring to the statement by Minister Ilic, who said: let me tell you, that law is not worth five pairs, it must change urgently. Either you have installed Velija Ilic's position here, or you have incorporated an attitude to prevent Velija Ilic from doing what she does. This would be really good, and I'll read you this more -- implementing a ban on obtaining tax breaks based on the payment of funds for illegal purposes. Is there anyone in the ruling coalition who can read this, interpret and explain to us and to the Serbian public what this means? Therefore, the implementation of the ban on obtaining tax reliefs on the basis of the payment of funds for illegal purposes. So, you pay off some money for illegal purposes, you write it, it's on the name of buying drugs, for example, and then you say, you know, I'm a cocaine addict, could I get some tax relief on that? So this is completely pointless that you wrote, and this is an obvious example that when writing this strategy to fight corruption, you handled some foreign documents and that, as in many cases so far, those who have translated have not done the job well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23617	Here you are, Mr. Milajić, then the People's MP, Hranislav Peric, then Radiša Ilic, further Branka Bošnjak, then the Verica Radeta. Here you go, Mr. Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23618	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this strategy has tried to solve a major social problem such as corruption. In the opening section, the elements covering this strategy are listed. One of these elements is the effective application of anti-corruption regulations. The second element is prevention, which means removing opportunities for corruption and the third element is raising public awareness and education in the fight against corruption. As far as effective application and anti-corruption regulations are concerned, absolutely no one prohibits executive or judicial authorities from applying existing regulations that include that kind of socially negative phenomena such as corruption, and the government could have done so before, without this strategy, to apply laws, and the judicial authorities could also apply regulations and to fight corruption. The strategy envisions that an action plan will be adopted, will be brought by the government that will concreteise this strategy and bring certain measures to improve the fight against corruption. With this proposal for a strategy, the Government recognises two things. The first thing is that the problem of corruption has overcome the state's potential, that corruption has become such a dangerous social phenomenon that there is a danger that the mafia will take over the state. The other thing that this strategy is talking about is that the government cannot successfully fight corruption and ask for an alibi and support from the Assembly. The adoption of this strategy requires part of the responsibility to transfer to the legislative authority and has the justification for a failed fight against this long-standing corruption. The first point of point 4 sets out the objectives of a strategy to reduce corruption and there are 16 sub-targets to achieve that main goal, which is to reduce corruption, as the minister said, corruption cannot be eliminated 100%, but can be reduced to one reasonable measure. There were 16 sub-targets, and he suggested that MPs in their discussions make some concrete proposals to improve this strategy, which they would introduce into their action plan that would be adopted by the government. I've seen these sub-targets that need to achieve this basic goal, combat corruption. I would also propose that, among other things, an effective solution to the already existing cases of corruption should be introduced. I would remind you of the recent past and of the affairs that are related to tobacco, exporting sugar, selling and purchasing electricity, paved roads, establishing the National Savings Bank. There are people mostly from the past government, beginning with late Prime Minister Djindjic, Zivkovic, Ceda Jovanovic, Aleksandr Vlahovic, Pitic, people who were close to DS, and we remember the affair about money laundering Nemanje Kolesar, Janjusevic, Difens Rouda, Cumeta, which paved half of Serbia through DS, Miodrag Kostic, who bought three sugars for nine euros. The common denominator of all these corruption affairs is all that these are people from DS or people who are very close to DS. Absolutely the biggest affairs that have been the greatest damage to this country have been caused by the DS. The privatisation of Sartida has done at least $400m in damage to this country. It's still not even a principle, that issue of privatisation and how the privatisation of Sartida was done and the sale of US steel, and it's not even undiscovered, and it's certainly done damage to this country for over 400 million dollars. There's a lot of talk here about buying and selling MPs' mandates, trading politics, and I wouldn't look back, because a lot of things are said here. I would also remind the government and this assembly home of a long-standing affair that has caused enormous damage to this country and to the citizens of this country, it is a sugar affair and the sale of sugar, and the sanctions that we have suffered from the EU because of the re-export of sugar. The point is that at the end of 2000, the EU granted preferences to the SRJ, where we could, under privileged conditions, export domestic sugar, of domestic origin, at a price of 600 euros per tonne, and then the market value of sugar was 300 euros per tonne. The EU has allowed us to earn 300 euros per tonne, counting on it to enable us to revive sugar production, since we have 15 sugars in Serbia and there is a lack of sugar in Serbia's environment for some million and 400,000 tonnes. The budget was that 15 sugar can produce about 700 thousand tonnes annually, domestic needs are met with 250,000 tonnes of sugar, and 450 thousand tonnes remains for export. This was the EU's concession to the SRJ then to revive sugar beet production, sugar beet processing, sugar production and the food industry related to sugar production. Even in 2002, the French ambassador here in Belgrade organised a seminar on this and invited the largest sugars from France to present us with a programme to develop the economy and business branches that are related to the processing of sugar beet and sugar. He made an invitation to all ministers and to the president of the then government and absolutely no one responded to that call or came. The US firm Shaper from Louisiana was interested in buying sugar in Kovin, which had not worked for three years, and there was an initial price for the purchase of two and a half million dollars, and was obliged by the buyer to take all the debts and to invest 30 million dollars in the launch of production in Kovin. They gave up when they saw that Miodrag Kostic and MK Komerc bought three sugars that worked, were in office, for nine euros. When they saw it, they realized that our country was absolutely not interested in the production of sugar, but that then government and government were just interested in speculation. The then federal minister of economic relations with abroad Labus, today's vice-president of the republican government, has completely liberalised the import of sugar and destroyed our industry and has knowingly done so. From the EU, first of all Christopher Patten, sent him a letter in 2002, wondering by the miracle that we could do such nonsense and completely liberalise sugar imports. In this regard, even indicating that the liberalisation of imports of a product is only carried out in three cases. The first case is, if you don't have that stuff at all and you don't produce it at all, there's no reason to protect the market. The second situation is if you produce enormously and if you have hyperproduction of this product, then there's nothing to be afraid of, because foreign goods, by the nature of things, have to be more expensive because you have hyperproduction. The third reason for liberalising imports is speculative. That is why Labus used to liberalise sugar, to allow MK Komerac and some others to repack import sugar, which imported 300 euros per tonne and sold the EU 600 euros and made 300 euros per tonne. The EU formed its commission, and they found that in 2001 and 2002 it was exported in this way, re-exporting, over 300,000 tonnes and a pure profit of 100m euros was achieved, for a narrow circle of people who, through government, allowed the job to be achieved, and this other commercial part through companies that were close to the DS. For their own personal and narrow group interests, they destroyed an entire branch of the economy, not blinking. In doing so, the European Union has analysed that 500,000 people live on sugar beet production, sugar beet processing, sugar production and the sugar industry, the juice industry, the chocolate industry, the conditioning products. It's a typical example of corruption, where personal and group interests, at the expense of public and general interests, win and do huge damage to the state and society, leave people without a job, destroy the economy around them, just for the sake of personal interest. However, the government has done nothing on this issue, the new one since 2004, as well as the sale of Sartida, where the state was apparently damaged by Minister Vlahovic for over $400m. I think this strategy must be examining all cases in the near past, not turning to these daily problems, which are attractive to the public and certainly harming the institutions and the state, but these are much bigger problems, which literally destroyed this country economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23619	Thank you, Mr. Milajic. The word is Hranislav Perić, then Radiša Ilic, Branka Bošnjak and Vjerica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23620	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, you often make mistakes in that list when it comes to me, so I don't believe it's just a mistake anymore, I think there's a little bit of intent, since you've read a dozen times my name that I'm going to speak, I think your goal was to give up the discussion. If that's the case, we'll have a problem. I will not talk about corruption today, Meko Omerovic and Sredoje Mihajlov said enough about it. They know the matter best, and it is too high for any other MP to comment on the matter. Today, we have a decision on the establishment of a national strategy against corruption. I don't think adopting such a strategy is going to change anything in practice. Corruption will continue to rule. There are many laws that we have passed so far, but are not implemented in practice. The Law on conflict of interest did not take effect in practice. I don't believe that the Money Laundering Act will be applied, as will the other laws that have been passed, relating to corruption and robbery of the state. If we seriously want to stand up to corruption, we need to pass one serious law. First, the law should be respected by officials who are in power, primarily from the government to the director of public enterprises. Since 2000, I have been constantly listening in this assembly from newly created reform politicians who say in every statement it is the previous regime, that it is all Slobodan Milosevic's fault, that we stole everything, that corruption ruled. That's the story they keep telling. And you've been ruling for five years. Start talking a little bit about your five years of government, what you've done in five years to prevent corruption. This decision was supposed to stand - corruption and robbery, because one thing without another doesn't work. There can't be a robbery if you don't corrupt someone in power. In just five years, we have managed to sell everything that the people of this country have created from existence. Where more corruption and robbery can happen than when it's sold in the country, anything that's worth it. Let's just go back five years and see which ones are the rich, which only became rich from 2000 to 2005. Where there's a world where in five years you can become a rich man and you don't know what you have without working anywhere until then, that your first job is a politician. Currently, in this country many use the IMF as a cover and excuse for their private arrangements and for making huge profits. By interpreting negotiations with the IMF, our politicians continue to be rich, and the profit-making mechanisms are different. Most often audit houses are agreed on an assessment of the value of the company. If, for example, the company is worth 100m euros, they estimate it at 10 million. Gets from showing false balances share key persons in the privatisation chain from the resolution ministry to the consultant's house. Another way politicians have created great wealth since 2000 is through allegedly foreign companies. This basically means that the owner of a privatisation company in Serbia is only a fictitious foreign company, registered as an offshore company in one of the so-called countries. We're making tax returns. The companies are actually hiding people from the top of the government after 2000, who in various ways came up with huge wealth at the expense of Serbian citizens. If we are to sincerely enter the fight against corruption, then corruption should be eradicated at the top of the government, and it will disappear from the top on its own. It is often said among citizens that the state is in the hands of the tycoon. A particular problem is the tycoons that out of the background are meeting corruption, out of their pockets, and out of everybody's pockets a little bit, no matter who's in power. They have an impact on some important flows, above all on privatisation, because it is the most paid job in Serbia today. Pronunciation -- entering Europe, reforming, ordering us -- Serbia is on the go, everybody grabs what they get. Today, I didn't want to mention the names of those who are corrupt and those who robbed this country, because everyone knows the names in this Serbia, or the sparrows on the branch, it's only a question of whether this country is really going to deal with corruption and robbery. If that's what the state wants to do, there's no problem, but I doubt the state will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23621	Thank you, Mr. Perry. You don't have to doubt that I've mentioned it many times to get the MPs ready in time, so I'm doing it now. The word has a folk MP Radiša Ilic, then Branka Bošnjak, Verica Radeta, Goran Jakšić, then Ivan Radić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23622	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I say anything about corruption, it would be interesting to hear where the SCG state union was based on research from the end of 2004, which included 146 countries in the world, and it concerns corruption. Therefore, out of 146 countries, the SCG state union was 99th, with the level of corruption increasing from the first place down. Of the countries in the region, only Albania was behind our country, in 106th place. Serbia-Montenegro was in Algeria, Lebanon, Macedonia and Nicaragua. The survey is from the end of 2004 and paints a magnificent range of bulldozer revolutions from 5 October to today. Corruption is the cancer of every state and every government. When the government does not function in this system as the judiciary and police do, when it does not respond adequately to the obvious abuses of the law, then corruption finds a fertile ground for uninterrupted destruction of the same government and for the harm of citizens. Those who will benefit are usually individuals from shadow, interest groups and privileged financial powers. The state, adopting a national strategy to fight corruption, in some ways admits that existing laws are not enough to deal with corruption. The strategy mentions areas most affected by corruption, the most important of which are the judiciary and police. There are certainly education, health care, public services, inspections, etc. They're important because they give one general picture of the society we live in. Abuse of the position, neglect of the public in favour of the private, major robbery through the provision of state resources, are just some of the characteristics that follow corruption. Usually, corruption, in a narrow sense, connects with the social status of an individual and the environment where he lives. For example, when it comes to doctors or educators, there are usually reasons, such as inadequate material position and social reputation, inability to advance, small wages, a poor system of the very functioning of educational and health institutions, etc. In the case of the judiciary, reasons for corruption should be sought in the political pressures of the executive authority, the influence of stakeholders, but also in the absence of adequate selection, as well as the lack of a system of protection of judges. We are witnessing frequent affairs whose actors are just the bearers of judicial functions. Almost every month in the National Assembly, an individual’s immunity for taking bribes and for insignificant verdicts, but also for making bad judgments resulting in serious consequences for the individual or for the company, which were thus deliberately devalued and later sold below any real price. This last one refers mainly to trade courts, which has also been reported by the media. Since corruption is not immune to judges of the Supreme Court, but once again, the old story has been repeated, everyone has been silent and, without the confusion, it has all come down to one judge, one prosecutor, who, unfortunately, confided in his wife, and so the follow-up operation of the judges has failed. Just a few days ago, the Serbian Parliament lifted immunity from the Paracino judge. The real question is how many citizens and don't report such phenomena, which they sometimes meet. However, executive authorities often do not respond adequately to obvious examples of corruption. The reason is free. The government must not blame its coalition partners, whose staff, as holders of certain functions in the government or public enterprises and institutions, knowingly violate the law, abuse their position. Adequate legal action against such functionholders would automatically mean the withdrawal of support from the government of that political party whose member is under the influence of the law. Dozens of affairs have come out in public that have unequivocally pointed to corruption. The executive board almost took no action. Let's just remember the affair about selling "The Book of Milos" and the role of Miroljub Labus in all this. Then let someone say that Milko Stimac did not faint from pure peace or because of phone calls from the Deputy Prime Minister himself. The public in Serbia was simply shocked by how the government pressured actors to privatise "Knjiza Miloša". Serbian citizens know that and therefore trust in the parties in power is so desperate. On the other hand, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Jelasic, has been calling on the media for months to answer where he gets the huge money to buy a villa on Dedinj. He shuts up, everybody's pretending to be blind and deaf and the executive power is falling back on the exam. Let's remember the Ericson affair, again involved with Miroljub Labus, nothing again. Even the Swedes launched an investigation. What happened at the end? Nothing. If it were an ordinary citizen, they'd drive him to the Supreme Court. Where are those special police departments of organized crime now to investigate all these cases? Or, let's just remember the DS authorities and the purchase of a large number of vehicles for the needs of the police. Then they had to buy special belts, ties, zip lighters. All in the arrangement of one of the numerous former Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic's companies. Did anyone answer for that? It's nobody. It's just an affair about getting military equipment. The culprits or the participants - again the G17 Plus functioners. Imagine, Minister Davinic of G17 plus accused him of a major robbery by Minister Dinkic, also from G17 Plus. It would be normal for someone to be in prison from G17 plus, not for the whole story to fall on one colonel and only for spending the night free at the hotel. Sports is a corrupt area. Clubs have become an ideal place to launder money. Many take advantage of that opportunity. Rarely, a sports club or an alliance does not have a functioner from the top of a political elite on its boards or organizations. From these positions, financial resources, sponsorship, transfers, the purchase of players, even the setting of results, are very effective. That's why we in Serbia still don't have the law on sports, which would sort of regulate status and clubs and athletes in Serbia. If the work were to implement the recommendations you made in this national strategy proposal, this government would not last two days, as their fulfillment would stop the interests of your coalition partners in supporting the government. For example, a ban on party activities for certain categories of officials, a report on the implementation of anti-corruption measures that these officials obviously do not give, nepotism, party employment, etc. All of what you wrote in the recommendations for the justice system and the police will remain just a dead letter on paper. For this you have laws, all it takes is for the state to enforce them, for which there seems to be no, by the government of Serbia, no desire, no courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23623	Thank you. Replication to the mention of the party, that is, the MP club. Here you go, Mr. Ivanji.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23624	Just for a little while, what I'm saying is, it's true that Minister Davinic was a member of G17 Plus, but I'm also saying that only G17 plus was able to point out the case of corruption in the supply of equipment. It's a matter that shows how much the G17 plus is a responsible party, and that it has always driven out justice, whether that man was a member of the G17 plus or not. So that's what the fact is, and I hope, and I'm sure the citizens of Serbia will be able to appreciate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23625	Thank you, Mr. Ivanji. This was a replica of the party. There's a clear understanding of the basis for replication. I've just cleared up, this morning I didn't see who was an authorised representative, and I thought that when there was a president or vice president present, there was no one else. The word has a People's MP Branka Bosnjak, so the People's MP Vjerica Radeta, MP Goran Jaksic gave up, so Ivan Radic, so Zarko Obradović, of course, unless someone in the Rules of Procedure shows up before I give my word. Here you go, Mrs. Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23626	Dear President, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, unfortunately today we were not able to send a clear message to the citizens who chose us that the laws are most important to us, but we are spending people's money on petty politics. The proposal for a decision to establish a national anti-corruption strategy is ahead of us and a minimum agreement is needed that the state must fight corruption at all levels. We're a poor country, poor citizens, and it seems to me, never again, ever again, ever again, a profiter and a billionaire. Causes of corruption - economic: ownership transformation, poverty, non-compliance with market principles; political: the existence of a power centre, international isolation, politicisation of all spheres of life; legal: ineffectiveness of the judiciary, non-compliance with the rules; institutional: non-functional institutions, human resources and material equipment; and, of course, historically: sudden change of system, wars and, unfortunately, Serbian customs. The fight against corruption must be fought through a political system, ratification of international conventions, strengthening the public's work of state authorities, strengthening the supervisory role of the National Assembly, introducing the obligation of state authorities to carry out anti-corruption control, prohibiting party activities for certain officials, effectively removing immunity for public officials, adopting codes of conduct of the MPs. We've been witnessing these days as an emissary of flyers. I am sorry that the term "stealing mandate" is in circulation here, it is actually a failed attempt to steal a mandate, because one party has also replaced its MPs from the same party's ranks. The judicial system and police in the fight against corruption play their part through effective law enforcement, the introduction of disciplinary responsibilities of judicial and police personnel, through the ban on political action of judicial holders, the provision of adequate income for police and judicial staff, by responding to complaints about the work of employees, through periodic control of authorities, by speeding up judicial proceedings, by effective enforcement of judicial judgments, by curbing corruption in the judicial administration. The fight against corruption must be ensured: the control is suing in the event of non-starting or suspending criminal proceedings in the area of corruption, eliminating the influence of political structures on procedures, protecting people who report corruption, effectively taking advantage of corruption, increasing the number of police officers and improving their working conditions, banning political action in police, improving the internal and external control of police work and punishing and rewarding, as well as modernising criminal police. Local administrations and public services also play a special role in the fight against corruption. This certainly is not the highest level of corruption, but because citizens most often meet with local administration, abuse and this corruption is the most obvious for citizens. In the system of public finances is also a special sphere of possible abuse and corruption. The state must spend only on adopted budget items. Consumption must be transparent, systems of effective control of the costs of budget users must be established, the increase in the number of controllers and their education and verification, the harmonisation of tax regulations with European regulations, the introduction of synthetic taxes and the reduction of tax forms, the modernisation of tax administrations. Of course, special attention must be given to curbing corruption in the customs area. The control and efficiency of the customs service must be increased, rules should be implemented in the field of public procurement. Today we heard a few remarks, probably very well-founded, about the Public Procurement Act. Soon, I hope that the amendments to the Law on Public Procurement will come into the congregation procedure. The State must also ensure independence in the work of the Commission for the Protection of Rights, and it must be completely separate from the influence of the Executive Authority, as the highest form of control. A special role in the fight against corruption must be played by the media. Unfortunately, we are aware that the influence of the media on corruption is very large. We have to say that the influence of the media is mostly negative. With non-selective accusations, imaginary affairs, non-disciplineial information (President: Make it possible for the MP to address it. "), all these phenomena are discouraged by real anti-corruption fighters, and they encourage those who generate it. Depending on political influences, but also Serbian tycoons, they create a false picture of moral values in Serbia and projected lies and affairs cover up real robbers and criminals. Because of this society, it must establish insight into the financial business of the media, introduce a single code of journalistic ethics, advance the rules of accountability for the public word, adopt the principle of incompatibility of the work of journalists and their political activities and impose sanctions on trade in media influences. In particular, national authorities must strengthen the role of civil society and citizens in the fight against corruption. We must encourage citizens to report attempts at corruption, we must educate them and inform them properly about their rights. A long way to society without corruption and man, as an individual, must play the most important role in this struggle. Each of us pays out of our pocket to an expensive state that is burdened with the cost of corruption. As a member of the G17 Plus party, as an architect and as a builder, I am in politics on temporary work and I have my sole goal: fighting corruption in my profession. Corruption in urbanism exists all the time in my professional activity. I have to say, she's still here today. My wish is to measure positive shifts, because knowing that 100,000 decent citizens of Serbia, mathematically, will bring one prominence 100%. Of course, there is no ideal society, but we must all strive to make a contribution to the fight against corruption. The task of each MP is particularly responsible and difficult on this difficult road. On behalf of the G17 Plus party, I suggest tightening the measures in the fight against corruption. The citizens chose us in 2003 because we were the first to draw attention to the abuses of government officials. We first removed people from our ranks who do not adhere to moral principles. We discovered an affair of military equipment, replaced Minister Davinic. We replaced two MPs on suspicion that they were planning to steal the will of the citizens and transfer the mandates to another parliamentary party, or worse still, to an unparliamentary party. The first task of this assembly is, by adopting this decision, to create a legal framework for action, but it is much more important for each MP to promote the fight against corruption in its midst. We're too poor to pay for doctors, to bribe municipal officials, to pay for the registration of a child in a manger or a building permit. I therefore call on all my colleagues to support this motion for a decision, but more importantly, to promote the fight against corruption by example and action and finally restore citizens' confidence in MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23627	He was just looking for Mr. Krasic's office. I'm sorry to keep you waiting, but you can see that sometimes it's very difficult. We have to stick to both correct expression and Rules of Procedure. The next speaker will be the People's Messenger Vjerica Radet, and after two MPs have given up, MP Ivan Radic and MP Zarko Obradovic. The ministers are being replaced either by the Assembly, or by the Prime Minister's or by the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23628	Mr. Markovic, nothing is difficult. The second thing I want to explain to you is, if there is an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Article 101, paragraphs 1 and 2 or Article 104, that does not necessarily mean when it comes out on a replica to respond to an insult, etc. My call is to make something clear. What's this about? Mr Ilic of the SRS has made very nice the fact that Minister Davinic is a member of the G17, that he has been accused and attacked by the finance minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mladjan Dinkic, also from G17. The charges that were on that relationship were heavy, everything is based on a circle called G17 plus. How did that end? Either one of them had to go to jail or they both had to go to jail. To that structure and to that logical conclusion, Zeljko comes out and says that G17 plus has gathered the strength to clear it up in its ranks. It's not enough. What Mr. Radisa Ilic said was not based on the courage to clear up in its ranks. You don't need the courage to apply the law. But, let me remind you, nothing has been cleared up, and it looks like what Tadic did in the 2003 election campaign. With his image, his staff, his voice and appearance, and even his mirror, he guaranteed that the Bodrum affair would be over in court. Remember, you attacked him for the Bodrum affair. You were showing a television video of who is sitting, who is voting, what is possible, what is impossible, where Neda is located, where Radosavljevic is located, where the absent Pajtic is located, etc. Of course I came out to say, it's all like a parolee, like Tadic used one steamer, and that's gonna make yours look like some kind of steamer. You found it appropriate to correct the alleged facts, just a little bit to turn those facts around, make it a little bit of a conspiracy and get a completely different picture. I'm not getting into whether it's true or not. Probably what Ericsson has is quite accurate, because the procedure is being conducted in Sweden, it's not being done here. No one's ever made an affair out of here. That's what these rotten Swedes made an affair. And he needs an answer. Sugar needs an answer, privatisation needs an answer, Knjaz Milos needs an answer. Jelasic should finally say whether he really had such foreign exchanges in the red jacket, when he came to Serbia, in the cabinet, a sweater, etc. It's all open questions. They can be funny, they can be sad, they can be a lie, they can be true, but they need to be answered by the state, by the government, by the authorities, by the authorities, not by a strategy that pushes us like cowardly eggs. That's what this is about. If you're really gonna clear up with corruption, with bribery. Here, we support you, but give us some results. It's impossible, there's an affair every day, it's been shaking for ten days and then the end of the story. Let me remind you, a year ago I asked you a sarcastic question here when you were going to arrest Karic. Someone could have accused me of pleading something illegal, etc. Of course, everyone realized that I said this sarcastically to challenge you, to finally look for documentation, interpret documentation, and even a little bit of those who represent the state in front of international arbitration, remind you of what their job is and find some answers to the key questions. I'm glad you're confirming our views that the tycoons actually lead this country, not directly but through their spiders. Remember that a month ago I even talked about the great tycoon Danica Draskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23629	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. It's not hard to stick to the Rules of Procedure, which is why I pointed out earlier what's in the domain of parties and what's in the service. Here you are, a replica to the mention of the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23630	This is about a number of false things that I'm not going to touch, but I'm going back to your question. So, it's true, we've indicated that the G17 Plus party is ready to clear up in its ranks with corruption and that's the basis for our policy-making, by the way. There's nothing you can do in this country unless you're in your own party. That's what we did. As far as the ingenuity of our ministers is concerned, I can say that everything is done on that side as it is clear to you. Mr Dinkic has repeatedly said that the budget inspection has established certain things she was investigating at the Ministry of Defence and it is quite clear. Therefore, the budgetary inspection has submitted its report and all the competent authorities have been informed about it. Now it's up to the other authorities to do their job, so of course the M.O.P., the D.A., the judiciary, you know who's supposed to be doing it right now. So they're doing their job now and I expect it to be done. All of us in G17 plus expect that all affairs and all possible affairs related to corruption, as it is today, find their epilogue in court and expect that this will happen, regardless of whether it's members of G17 plus or any other in Serbia, whether it's big, whether it's petty corruption, because corruption is corruption. So it's totally inappropriate to mention the G17 plus party and connect it to any kind of corruption. We want all these affairs to get their epilogues, and we want to contribute to all the areas where we work and where our ministers work to get their services and services that are subordinated to them to finish their work, and they have done so in these cases. So that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23631	According to the Rules of Procedure, I assume you're being misread. Here you go, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23632	Mr. President, it's not just a misreading and that I'm misread, but also a violation of a dignity. I'll explain to you what the violation of that dignity is about. The lady brought it here - the G17 Plus Ministers. There are no G17 plus ministers, but there are ministers. If you only tied them to G17 plus, then you confirm what I've been saying since the beginning of this government that there are parcels there. In this plot there is a G17 plus and controls exactly what Branka just recently found to be a problem – customs, tax administration, National Bank, etc. You need to take care of something when you come out to talk. The party in power cannot come to replicate the opposition and criticise the situation for which it is responsible. How can you from G17 criticise the state of customs, and you keep customs and boast about holding customs. The other day, the doctor said -- you in Alexandrovac know that in a few days, the home of health is opening up, that's thanks to G17 plus. If I were with you in the government, I'd break it up right now. Why? You're a coalition government working together or you're a sectoral government. To that you can freely add what are SPO's francles. It's funny to you, but it is, spo's, as much music as it is to you. Look, please, let me not use the word morale, but political consistency. When the SPO is due to enter the Republic government, then Mr. Vuk Draskovic says he cannot support us. When he is to be elected foreign minister, the SPS of course votes him, and he says yes, they voted, but I didn't ask them to. These are two different actions from the same man over the same or similar things. Now it would be really hypocritical for Vuk Draskovic to come out and complain about something, and he complains about the situation on a daily basis: either attacks by the police, attacks by the judiciary, commenting on pre-criminal proceedings, criminal proceedings, unfair convictions. He's being persuaded by his wife to comment, she's a great expert, she's a state-of-the-art threat depending on whether hers has influence or has no influence. If there's less impact on her group in national security, it's not good, it's a gang, it's a fuck. If her group gets a little bit more influence, she'll shut up, fine. That's what citizens need to know. You G17 plus have to define yourself once. I completely agree that you are effective, but only when it comes to money. When this other thing is, you're nothing effective. Let me tell you one thing, think a little bit about whether they may be the cause of corruption and too high infraction and other penalties for harmless tax irregularities. I only mentioned one example this morning, a man was late paying his contributions for a few days because he didn't have any funds in his account. He was supposed to pay 5,000, there was an inspection, they made a record, and he's gonna answer for two violations. One's about the application, the other's about the funds. The minimum penalty for one is 50,000, and the maximum is 1,000,000 dinars. If we go with minimum sentences for those two violations he should give 100,000 dinars. What's it cost him to give 200 euros to a tax inspector who'll close his eyes? You systematically created corruption, you created conditions for corruption? Why? The economy stagnates, what it does has to be disciplined, who stays in it, stays big, stays tycoons, remains new monopolies. That's what we're talking about. That's why it's not enough to say, you know what we have strategy. As last time was, I'm sorry to extend it a little bit, we have a new law on litigation and well, the law passed, so it hasn't been three months, and the minister says, people, judges don't know it's passed a new law. Don't complain to me, I'm an opposition, dirty, simple, who wants to take you out of power. What are you complaining about? Watch it. A little bit of logic sharpened, when you're in power, you can't be oppositional. The government can't behave oppositionally. Now, though, in a few days of snow, believe me, the opposition has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23633	Just a second, please, we're not really going to let that happen, because just as everyone has to take care that we express ourselves precisely, properly, as Mr Krasic said, he's going to extend, let him continue, so I'm not going to let this happen, and there's no reason to be exhausted, because these are political views and it's clear that we should continue as everyone has advocated, so let's listen to them in slow order. Everyone makes their political point, there's no reason to abuse the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mrs Radeta, and then MP Zarko Obradović, then MP Ivan Radic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23634	Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I cannot use all 90 minutes available to the SRS parliamentary group, because at least so much time should be talked about corruption as the fluid of democracy from 2000 to today. The National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which is the title of this act that we are talking about today and about which one day we need to make a statement, and here we have heard different and different attitudes, is mostly an undivided opinion that corruption is indeed at all levels and places. But we heard one thing, thank God, the only opinion that corruption in Serbia is present as a consequence of Serbian customs. This is truly amazing to see in Serbian customs the cause of corruption, I am sorry that there is no colleague to explain to us what she meant when she said it. The government says in this national strategy that corruption is an equally harmful phenomenon in societies at all levels of development. I have to tell you, this isn't true. Corruption is harmful as a phenomenon, it is harmful at every level, but it is the most harmful when it is at the top of the government, and it is current now and it is current in the previous two governments. Furthermore, you say that corruption occurs where there are, under a) possibilities and under b) interest. How very cleverly this is said. Of course there's a possibility of corruption in every place, everyone has an interest in getting involved in this business to be corrupt and I really don't see why you had to explain it so highly. However, when I saw that this strategy, or decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy, was signed by Miroljub Labus, I was already skeptical at the beginning that the government has any sound intention of taking action in the right way with corruption. We have here, among other things, the causes of corruption, says under b) politically: an outdated and inadequate constitution. Well, tell me, please, that the outdated and unsuitable constitution is the cause of corruption in Serbia, so that only someone can explain in which way the Constitution, as you say, is obsolete and unsuitable, can be the cause of corruption. That's amazing. The constitution has become obsolete only in part of social property, and that is certainly not the reason. While it was a social property, there has been no corruption as long as it has been privatized. Of course, I don't mind privatization, but I'll talk about it in some specific things. You say, consistent application of the principle of government work, and then you say it's depoliticalization, professionalization, rationalization, modernisation, etc., and we've been here for a month or two, when we've had these laws on government, about civil servants, we're talking about you passing laws that create a party state. Not a word, not near this depoliticalization, professionalization, etc. I'll remind you of those state secretaries and various government officials, with a term of five years, means more than the government, by naming them now, already is, and then the government will leave next year, and all of the current government's state secretaries will rule for another five years. Now, that's how you depolitized the state, and that's how you try to fight corruption. When you talk about the media, you say, among other things, the recommendations are to ensure the independence of journalists in professional work, with a consistent implementation of responsibility for infringements of the ethical code of journalism or the implementation of the principles of incompatibility of the work of journalists and their political activity. Now I'm going to give you one of the freshest examples of Soros journalist Jugoslav Cosic, who is almost on one show, it seems to me to be called "Poligraph", Mr. Tomislav Nikolic said he has an apartment on St. Sava Street, I think he got it from Partizan. And of course, we came very quickly to the right information whose apartment it is, that it is the home of the Tomislav Nikolic family who died years ago. But why am I bringing this up? Because the journalist Jugoslav Ćosic, the Sorosev journalist, says he may be able to apologize to the family of the late Tomislav Nikolic, who mentioned him in this context, but that he has no need to apologize either to the SRS or to Tomislav Nikolic. So, so much for the current state in this area. You have written here a very interesting involvement of citizens and civil society in the fight against corruption, because you state - NGOs and you say they must deserve the legitimacy of openness, courage and quality of their actions. Aman my people, so did you think to include these, as they call themselves, human rights fighters Biljana Kovacevic, Sonja Biserko, Sonja Licht, Natasu Kandic and those of you serve to talk about them in this way in a national anti-corruption strategy. It's just amazing. When the minister here, neither guilty nor due, explained this topic, he said that 15% of the possible revealed or already listed corruption affairs were processed. Now, I don't know what that's all about, if we all know that the biggest affairs of corruption weren't processed, that they were all in principle -- the worse the mouse was born. We'll remind you of some. We've been talking about corruption in the government these days through the Ministry of Health. Mr. Paja Momchilov can't wait to talk about it, so I won't take his time or his topic. We were talking about the National Savings Officer, how Dinkic robbed the National Savings Bank, and then on the front pages of all newspapers it says -- the arrest of a budget inspector, it seems to me in Požega, that I am not wrong now not to blaspheme someone, arrested for taking 50 euros, amazing. Of course, he can't take 50 euros, he can't take 50 bucks, it's stealing, it's corruption. But compared to his minister, who took the National Savings Bank, robbed it the way he robbed it, we're talking about some totally banal stuff. We have an unprecedented money laundering through the National Office. Is this corruption being processed, is it the procedure to see what money and what money they're going through through the People's Office, through all the local offices, the National Office in all the municipalities where the DS holds power? How is the President of the Republic financed from donations, is there somewhere in a country that the President of the Republic is funding from donations? It's already being sold in advance, or somebody's buying it. That's not interesting, of course. You have talked to many of the SRS about judicial corruption, and colleagues from the ruling coalition also talk about judicial corruption, but how some judges have already been arrested and some are being prosecuted, etc. It's okay, that's the way it should be. But that's not something we should be proud of and be happy about. I'm just asking if we have the information, we do, and has anyone here published the information since the judges that are currently under criminal investigation have been selected? They're mostly all judges after 2000. We didn't get a court epilogue from Labus' affairs, and about "Knjiz Milos", or sugar, you heard here today, or the complete economic betrayal of the country that Miroljub Labus is currently leading, or for several months now, is present at work. We don't have any official information here. We don't know what's going on with the action against Maria Rashete-Vukosavljevic. Remember, it's that minister from Tadic's DS, who paid 70,000 dinars at the airport, and a coffee spoon for 650 dinars. For two days it was current in the paper, now it's up to date again. I see he's visiting some fashion shows that Mrs. Tadic is organizing there. So nothing happened. Stole a woman, as she said today, embezzled 18m euros. Nothing to anyone. It has nothing to do with fighting corruption. Corruption in the privatisation process, in the public procurement process, in the money laundering process, that's something I really can't do, this is how I throw the subject on the subject, because I don't have time to mention everything, let alone talk about everything. The latest corruption that is taking place, and it is related to the government in Surcin, to the failure of the DSS Minister, Mr Loncar, to the situation in Surcin and to his obligation to introduce a forced administration into the municipality. Of course, it's all about the transgie-frange jobs, the ones we talked about here when it comes to trade in parliamentary mandates. I don't have time to talk about it. There is much to say on this subject more than is said today. Today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia received one letter, where the application addresses small FMP shareholders, among other things, I don't have time to read everything, they say and beg "to help us to prevent illegal takeovers in accordance with your powers, they say, hijacking the metal products factory, AD FMP Belgrade with 60% owned by small shareholders that are 2,180 and 40% is state-owned. The reason why we are talking to you is this: 70 of the 290 workers have been dismissed from July 1st 2004 to this day, shipping allowances have been paid at a minimum amount of 35,000. Otherwise, all 290 workers have worked for the minimum wage since July 1st. "It says, "at the same time 20 million dinars were taken from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, five million of which were paid to fired workers, five million were paid bills from the FMP BS and the Roto Cart. A million and 200,000 were paid a scholarship from Tijani Covic to a secret account, the daughter of Nebojja Covic. "All the daughters of these corrupt politicians seem to like to school abroad. Eight million and 800 grand again as a donation to buy the FMP. There's a hotel, a basketball hall, cafes, what's all that stuff that's been sold in the railroad? I don't have time, but some other time we'll read all this. Ladies and gentlemen, what we're discussing today is a dead letter on paper. Apply the laws, gentlemen, the laws are, whatever they are, the only guarantee to fight corruption. Unfortunately, the laws you make, and we keep warning you here, you make inapplicable laws, you make laws with lots of holes, which open up the possibility of corruption. That's true, and this really isn't going to help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23635	Here you go, Mr. Obradovic, then the MP Ivan Radic. They've given up two MPs, so he's got to go in and out while he's at it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23636	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I'd like to repeat a few views of the SPS and something I couldn't say this morning. The real explosion of corruption occurred in Serbia after 2000, as the DOS then, compared to the destruction of institutions, created a legal frame with holes that were widely used for the enormous wealth of individuals. The biggest corruption was during the privatisation process. Unfortunately, at that time, the enormous social wealth was overrun, hundreds of thousands of people not only lost their jobs, but what they created for generations of people became the property of an individual overnight. The DOS government, otherwise, has declared privatisation a condition without which no economic and any other progress is possible, according to a recommendation from financial capital and large companies. In a short time, private property became dominant, and the results of the rejuvenation were more than devastating. Here I'm going to mention only two cases that in themselves tell you enough what was done. Cementes in Serbia; believe it or not, all cementists in Serbia were sold for $139m, while for just one cement factory in 1998, imagine at that time sanctions were offered $140m. It's realistic to assume that there's a price difference, and over here there's 139 for three, and there's 140 for one, that this huge price difference went into individual pockets. There is a need to mention once again the privatisation of Sartide. The Sartida case is the biggest privatisation scandal in our country so far. In fact, since the Economic Institute estimated the value of Sartida at $57 million and two more, let me say, dependent societies at $1 million and $800,000, it's saying enough in itself, and it's being sold for $21.3 million. The Council for Corruption argues that the agreement of Minister Vlahovic with a privileged buyer, because he is concerned with which the prime minister was involved all the time and who received confirmation of the entire government and the Republic Secretariat, was carried out at the expense of the state, i.e. all citizens of this country. Imagine, when one such combination is sold without a competition for $21.3 million, what is the difference from a set price. If it was possible for anyone else to show up, and there were interested parties, the question is, how much would that price have increased? The other side of that story is that the buyer is free from paying back debts. The amount has not been mentioned, and it has been mentioned in public that the figure is $1.7 billion. People, can you understand how different that is, even if that $1.7 billion is not true at all, even if half of that amount, a third of that amount, is fantastic money and it's logical to assume that that money ended up in private pockets. The Council's report shows that the entire state summit of Serbia at the time was involved and that it led the action. A man has to ask himself logically why Sartid was sold for such small money. Whether it was a settlement of debt obligations from years ago, when the money was largely divided to bring down the Socialists, or it was a personal business, which is in corruption. In any case, this example of "Sartida" itself best paints what has been done in Serbia during privatisation. I think that this particular data that I've presented, with the fact that 1,000 companies have been sold for a billion euros, and in the morning I made a mistake, so I mentioned two billion, so my colleagues corrected me, for a billion euros -- that means that Serbia has been robbed. It's good to bring this strategy in, but it's only going to remain an empty letter on paper, if tomorrow, after the adoption of this document, we don't access its operationalisation, because we have to get in the way of corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23637	Thank you. The People's Messenger Ivan Radic, then Goran Davidovic, then Paja Momcilov, because two other MPs gave up.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23638	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, corruption is widespread in most areas of public life in Serbia. The most affected areas include customs, public procurement, the financing of political parties, and the prosecution and the judiciary. The privatisation process is a special focus of the so-called "Privatisation". Great corruption, which served as a basic mechanism for redistributing national wealth under the control of several powerful individuals, members of the political-financial oligarchy. Privatisation is carried out under extremely non-transparent conditions, with very weak or no public access to information and documents owned by the Privatisation Agency. This practice of managing the privatisation process has resulted in a large number of public affairs, with serious accusations of corruption and organised crime. While public attention is mainly focused on the corruption of high-ranking state officials and ministers, for ordinary citizens corruption seems to be the most represented in the business of customs, health care, police, and corruption in local authorities not to talk. No matter what the Government has done in its current course, which has undertaken certain activities in the adoption of some anti-corruption laws, such as the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the Law on the Accessibility of Information of Public Meaning, seem to have largely lagging behind the effects of their application. A very small number of investigations against current and former officials have been registered for abuse of official office and corruption, and the number of accused court rulings has been negligible. In these rare court proceedings, there was a major problem with the findings of the experts, which are under great corruption pressure. This is only due to the belief that the judiciary is considered highly corrupt, both by domestic public opinion and by foreign observers. Another major problem lies in the fact that parliament does not function as an effective anti-corruption mechanism. Parliament does not effectively control public finances, nor initiates anti-corruption legislation. That is not surprising, given that we are meeting with the fact that the parliamentary majority, or the ruling party, do not allow at any cost to open a debate on confidence in the government, do not open a debate on the confidence of any minister, or a debate on the launch of an impeachment against Serbian President Boris Tadic. Just to remind myself that more than a year ago, we met with the fact that the Survey Committee, which this assembly formed, was tasked with establishing the facts and circumstances of the business of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia, etc. The affair Hamovic and Lazarevic, whose president was Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, where the state of Serbia was unequivocally found to have suffered enormous damage from the job -- we came to the situation that most of the MPs of the ruling coalition on the committee had adopted a report that made it all clear. The situation in the state itself and the lack of interest of the authorities to face this problem particularly favours tax corruption. The existence of a gray and black market, widespread smuggling networks and active organised crime groups have at the same time made fighting corruption even more difficult. So, with crime prevention, corruption is curbed, and I'm just going to give you some of the estimates of international or world organisations, which are really scary. Let's say, the IMF's estimate is that so-called. The world's gross criminal product is more than 500 billion a year, and by the United Nations estimates more than 80% of that amount has been achieved by drug trafficking. I was going to say more about a kind of crime, which is particularly dangerous to the state and society, it's so-called. money laundering, but given the time that stands out for the SRS parliamentary group, and there are more registered MPs, I will skip that part. All I have left to say is that weak countries, which is undoubtedly Serbia today, are suitable to be a front for organised crime. Money laundering in a country leads to a growing criminalisation of society. They gain wealth and power, trying to take control of the entire financial and economic system. You well know which political party today holds the complete financial system in Serbia. Also, they want to acquire a certain political power, become model citizens, not selecting funds, such as today's case with unfortunate Bogoljub Karic, whom I am confident will never have political power and will never ask for anything important in Serbia. Such countries where this type of crime prevails have no problem with crime, because they cannot control it, as criminal organisations control the state. Unfortunately, what I was talking about is too much like a reality in Serbia, and there are vain attempts by the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has already shown that it is not capable or capable enough to deal with corruption. It's nice what you wrote in the reasons for making this decision on a national anti-corruption strategy, that's true. The fight against corruption is an organised and long-term process, which must be a social priority, as well as the achievement of the level of anti-corruption culture in Serbia, in line with international standards, but it has long become clear to the citizens of Serbia, that corruption and crime in Serbia can only be contained by a government in which the decisive word is led by the SRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23639	Thank you, Mr. Radic. The People's Messenger Goran Davidovic, and the People's Messenger, Paja Momchilov. Here you go, Mr. Davidovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23640	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, according to the "Mother of Serbs" Dictionary, bribes in the Serbian language signify money or other value, a valuable thing as a gift, a reward that is won to satisfy the donor's wish. There are older words than words of bribery, such as discretion, which signifies bribery, bribery, and the word corruption began to be used with us much later. The Serbian folk tradition of bribery and bribery has a rather flexible attitude and flexible opinion, but is fully aware of their existence, as well as the fact that these phenomena can hardly be eradicated. A person who receives bribes in folk tradition has a negative opinion. The condemnation of the people is much more severe toward him who receives a bribe than he who gives it. There is a belief that the recipient of the bribe does so out of pure greed, not out of some need for life, and thus the condemnation is greater. It is also believed that he uses his position, authority, and power to grab what he does not belong to, or does not need. The condemnation is particularly high in cases where a person has suffered a certain position by dishonest means. Those who give bribes of opinion are divided and formed from case to case. If a briber does so the only way to resolve his legitimate request, then it's almost a traditional environment somewhat unjudged. People's traditions are too silently approved, sometimes there's an understanding for an individual who bribes to speed up some decision or solution. This type of giving and receiving bribes has been present in this area for centuries and certainly is difficult to root out because it has practically become part of everyday phenomena. The fact that the government has to punish the one who receives the bribe, but also the one who gives it, has somehow stayed out of the way. I think for the first time, in one plan and systematic way, by bringing this kind of platform, we are able to make something that is, in any case, needed to be solved, and there is a big problem in Serbia. As harmless or harmless as some kind of bribe may seem, it is by creating general acceptance and non-judgment or simply coping with fate, in its essence, dangerous, because of the creation of climates that some forms of bribery are less dangerous than others. This creates a habit that every job is easier to complete if, I quote, "the thing is oiled." So, the fact is that, according to estimates, corruption exists in our society, and one of the estimates is, based on the corruption index done by Transparents International, for example, behind our country is Macedonia, Ukraine, Albania, Russia, Azerbaijan, and ahead of us are Bulgaria, Turkey, Croatia, Romania. I think one way to find our country in a much better place is to adopt one of these documents. I remind you that December 9th is an international day against corruption. I think that the contribution of this assembly and all of us in the Assembly, by voting for one such document, will be a general contribution to adopt one document on the proposal of the Minister of Resolution and, of course, the Government by 9 December. I'll take the opportunity to say more about the corruption involved in health care. In health care it is necessary to apply a number of measures related to those in other areas of state administration and social life, but of course some that are specific to health care. In addition to tightening criminal measures to reduce the extent of healthcare corruption, reforms of the health insurance system and health care systems are also needed. We have been able to declare these laws these days, so that the character of action in the direction of competition may be changed. Of course, in order for health care to function in a smooth way, it is necessary to reduce the role of the state itself to some extent and encourage competition. It is necessary to even establish competition between health institutions, not only between the private and state sectors, but between the state institutions themselves. By changing the methods of payment, adequate salaries in health institutions would be encouraged to work as well as possible, and thus we could banish corruption. This creates conditions for health care workers to be motivated by better quality, hence more cost-effective work. Their profits would not be fixed, but could depend, for example, on the skills and quality of work. It's the doctor who has to support the patient, to treat according to medical doctrine, to show care for the course of treatment, and the patient has to trust the doctor. This fully establishes an ethical relationship between a doctor and a patient. Of course, not everyone is able to meet the requirements that practice medicine imposes. That is why it is necessary, as one of the basic criteria, that, among other things, the admissions to the universities of medicine or dentistry, as well as the students of secondary schools, institutions, in addition to those mental abilities, firm moral structure, willingness to give up and commitment to work. The adoption of ethical codes that will once again be confirmed by what a healthcare professional must do, and under no circumstances should he do, without prior selection of those who practice medicine, give more serious results in the fight, not only against corruption, but also against, of course, unprofessional treatment. I will take the opportunity to remind myself that one such document, which I hope this assembly will adopt, for which I expect support from MPs, contains in itself everything relevant documents, and when it comes to Europe, the EU, the Council of Europe, have advised and proposed. Among other things, and one of the first documents, which we as a state have been involved in such an initiative is the signing of the Southeast European Stability Pact Anti-corruption Initiative. So that corruption and other illegal criminal activities are very harmful to the stability of all democratic institutions, violate the rule of law, breach of fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and other internationally recognised standards and undermine the faith and trust of citizens in the integrity and objectivity of the state administration. On the other hand, climate disturbances have an adverse impact on domestic and foreign investments and are a waste of economic resources and make economic development more difficult. That's why, of course, they're jeopardizing the development of society. These priority measures to combat corruption are covered by this plan of taking effective measures on the basis of existing relevant international acts, particularly acts of the Council of Europe, the European Community, the Organisation for European Co-operation and the development of the UN and the force to take financial actions against money laundering. Next, the promotion of good governance through legal, structural reforms and management reforms, in order to improve the visibility of the work and responsibility of the state administration through the development of institutional capacities and the establishment of high standards for the morals of state officials in carrying out public work, strengthening legislation and promoting the rule of law by ensuring effective separation of executive, legislative and judicial authorities and the independence of investigative and judicial authorities, as well as the improvement of investigative capacities. Promoting the obviousness and honesty in business activities through, among other things, effective application of laws on accepting or offering bribes, creating open and clear conditions for domestic and foreign investments, determining collective responsibility and internationally recognised accounting standards. Promoting an active civil society by giving rights to civil society and independent media to promote social activity and achieve political engagement, by creating a model of honesty in business transactions and a general culture of life in accordance with the laws. Discussing the participation strategy and pro-active strategies can improve efforts to combat corruption of all layers of society. Unity in creating a partnership between the state, private and between the government and civil society is crucial in developing and supporting reform measures and monitoring activities in the fight against corruption. Recognition that international organisations, governments outside and within the region and business communities can also provide the necessary support in making such documents and, of course, support the government to bring such measures and laws together. Knowing that donor organisations will likely be able to provide some kind of technical assistance, but what is certain so far is that, through all those laws, the present minister here, by his personal engagement and engagement of his ministry, can confirm it himself, at the very end, to round up a set of laws that are necessary to enable this platform to live in practice in some future, to move on as soon as possible with its implementation, as it is expected of us. In the end, I want to say that by means of corruption, groups and individuals can benefit illegally. The entire generations deprive themselves of the future and are creating fertile ground for social conflicts and climate of mistrust, so that the adoption of one such document is, in fact, an invitation for all of us to engage in the fight against corruption, so that we all have something to brag about when the next international day comes to fight corruption, that by next year there is certainly progress, and I have no doubt about it when it comes to this government. I think we'll really be able to have a much better place in a year than our country has ever had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23641	Thank you, Mr. Davidovic. The People's Messenger, Pai Momchilov, has the word, and he is the last reported speaker. Here you go, Mr. Momchilov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23642	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, we are somehow reaching the end of this debate. In front of the SRS, I will try to get my party colleagues' position on this important problem, and I will try from a special point of view, from the doctor's point of view. There are probably enough reasons, because today when it comes to corruption in Serbia, it is said that healthcare is one of the most corrupt parts of our society. Many prove it, in a more convincing and convincing way. Just to remind you, we have a whole series of research, let's say, Transparent International, Procarment Assessment (Procurement Assessment) of the World Bank said, a document that health is the epicentre of corruption, so Marten Board internally said that the citizens said that the health care in us was more corrupt, so the Media Gallup internalized research. Of all these studies, the most serious one seems to be the International Human Rights League, document 416. It is a group of authors from Sorbonne, who presented this document to the UN Committee in Geneva, April or May. The title of the document is - Discrimination and Corruption, failed in Serbia's health system. The conclusion is that human rights of poor Roma, refugees and displaced persons are being violated. Perhaps the cream on that cake was placed by Mrs. Junger, a representative of the World Bank, who said that in Serbia, she goes on a health bribe between 2% and 4% of gross national income, which translates into number language from 40 billion to 80 billion dinars per year. How she got to it, and I don't know her institution, but that's the situation. We are now talking about corruption and we are talking about some document - a decision on the establishment of a national anti-corruption strategy. We heard the definition, we heard the goals, we heard the strategy, and we heard one, in my opinion, abstract story about very concrete phenomena that have been the problem of this country and this people for many years. In his highly inspired and well-exposed presentation, Mr Krasic said the position of Serbian radicals. We think it was meant to take action, not the story of future actions. It's clear to the people that when we talk about corruption, it's a kind of theft and thieving, where someone's position is used. Who's in position? Well, primarily officials and those who make up government institutions, all three authorities and the public sector. That's what corruption is all about. It seems logical to me that it was meant to go right out of my head and lead the order here and give it an action program. I'm just gonna say a few words on behalf of our doctor. What happened to us? We've had sanctions for 10 years, then we've had a war and we've had, as a result, what we have today, and that's already one preoccupation or occupation of the country. Not to talk about how and why. Someone's gonna agree, someone won't, they don't have to. What happened to our doctors? We faced at one point with extremely low personal incomes. Remember yourself, if you didn't change your salary the same night for stamps, then you could only buy a kilo of sugar in the morning. Simply, doctors, like other workers of this country, had to be involved violently in corrupt activities to survive. That's how society worked during that period, and you can't blame anyone for what was then and took something that was given to him and offered. There was this devilish variant when someone was looking for it. It's certainly for every conviction and then it's always going to stay. We're talking about a thief here. The people recognize it. There doesn't need any great science and theory. Whether it's a pick-up, whether it's a road robbery, whether it's a tender, it's all the same. It doesn't need to make science, and it doesn't need to make pomp, and it doesn't need to make such promising documents. He needs action. What I'm saying is, one of the previous speakers said something's going on right now, we arrested a couple of doctors. We doctors are appalled by what the government and the media are doing to us today. If what I'm saying is that the main and the big corruption is tender, what they write and the newspaper, in the supply of drugs, the medical equipment, why take that poor guy who managed to steal under the chicken egg and make it a series of articles in the press. It's a great shame for this regime, for these media that are somehow being conducted. Look at these media. We discussed a set of health care system laws here for three days. There's not a word in the media. Dirt, suppressed. That's why these headlines are being written -- the arrested doctor, took 150 euros. It's a Satanizing profession and people. It's out of your mind, it's a shame. That the government was the very center of corruption we heard in this debate, quite accidentally, the other day. At the question of Mr Jovanovic, who is the president of the tender commission for the reconstruction of the hospital in Uzic, where $3.8m was invested, we received a reply from the minister that he is the president of all the tender commissions for the procurement of equipment in Serbia's health care. He's the president, he's proposing, and whoever decides - the Ministry of Health. Mr. Minister, you are a member of this government, how do you, as a lawyer, allow a violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest? Not to read to you Article 6 which says in point 5, point 2, "the functioner is forbidden to influence the acquisition of public procurement jobs". Not negatively, not positively, you wrote it and we adopted it here, and you in that same government allow one terrible possibility for corruption. You know what the doctors tell me -- what it means, in translation, all the commissions to him. There's a soft commission. Make it a soft commission, that's 3%. I don't want to talk about hard, they say there's a hard one. One more example to point out and finish. In the same government you in August made what is outside of the law and out of mind - a decision to sort goods into forms of exports and imports. You've introduced a new tariff mark, I won't read it, it's a large number, waste pharmaceuticals. You've allowed imports into this country of a waste pharmaceutical product. The Berlin Convention prohibits imports of waste pharmaceutical products. Based on our Criminal Law, Article 266, which has the nickname - The introduction of dangerous substances into Serbia and the illicit processing, disposal and storage of dangerous materials. Which has the motive for your government to allow storage – past international conventions and our positive legislation, the laws that you have proposed and we have adopted, should also know that we do not have the capacity to process this waste – which is the motive to allow the most dangerous pharmaceutical waste to be stored here, which is a very broad category and can mean anything. Which is corruption and bribery. Don't tell me the first motive is the desire to kill the Serb people. I can think of that. Get out of the government. We've passed the Health Protection Act, and a member of 199 is directly corrupt. I'm not going to explain because I'm too busy time. If you had come from the government to comb, it would have been much better. Don't make fun of them. Don't make fun of them. Don't make fun of them. It's a shame. There are a million others to blame, including among doctors. Champions of corruption among doctors know who they are. It's the secretary's chamber of directors.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23643	Thank you for understanding my tolerance. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, and there are no present who have not used their time as presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups, please welcome Mr Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23644	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have really carefully followed today's debate in the Assembly, and in a certain way I can express my satisfaction. On the one hand, it was really our love for partying, for exaggeration and a number of other things, but I can understand that, it's a political struggle, and we Serbs know that we do it our way. But when you ignore all that, when you remove all the inaccuracies, there are a few things that make me happy. On the one hand, we all realized that corruption is the problem facing this society. On the other hand, in all the discussions, it has been said that something should be done to bring corruption down to that reasonable extent, some said it would be eliminated. Since we share that opinion, I think then, looking at the strategy itself, I'm not going to talk about incorrect interpretations, because when the strategy is talking about possible centres where corruption can occur, etc., then they say - it's a state. It's only about two important elements, the possibility of corruption and interest. It's listed where there's a possibility. In line with that, recommendations have been made. I think after this discussion I can at least say to myself that there is a political will for everyone in this House to deal with corruption as a permanent phenomenon that threatens this society. If that's the case, I don't see any reason why this strategy should not be adopted. It presents recommendations, and at point 2, it says something else that would directly be contrary to some of the exhibitions. She obliges the government to make it happen. And on the third point, that this body forms an independent anti-corruption body, which is accompanied by all others who need to do and fulfil their obligations in accordance with action programmes. So there's no delusion, because there's a rumor here that you need to start from the head, the problem of corruption is from head to toe. There's a possibility that he'll appear everywhere and there's a possibility for all function carriers. It is kept silent that you have the fifth sector, so says local self-government, etc. You're participants in local self-government. So there's no dispute that it can appear in all spheres. Here everyone went about their profession, but there is no dispute that in every profession where the possibility of corruption appears, it can appear. We really need to deal with it permanently and systematically. With this body and these obligations, we get something that keeps repeating itself. It leads to that other element, when you have extreme control, you know where it can appear and it's being controlled, measures are being taken, you're increasing the risk of whoever's willing to do it, and on the other hand, the interest is much smaller, the risk that can meet it is seen. In that sense, it is about that second element. That is why I propose that we actually adopt this strategy in this House, in my opinion, unanimously, for one important reason. Her failure six days ago was the reason we found ourselves in this place, and we're not ten places lower, because it seemed that she was before the Parliament was adopted without being adopted. A few of the countries that adopted her were right in front of us. For these reasons, I think we should show that there is a political will and it is a basic condition in order to achieve a valid fight against corruption at all. I understand that there is no dispute here on this issue, and I expect the strategy to be voted. I can't believe someone's gonna vote against it, and there's political will to be dealt with against corruption. On the other hand, a direct obligation is imposed on the government itself to implement this, along with the monitoring of this parliament. I must tell you that, knowing what the state is, I have special respect for Parliament, for one very clear reason. Parliament reflects the will of citizens. Parliament has the only democratic legitimacy original, every four years it goes to elections and gets it from citizens. I believe that that is why this Parliament should show the political will to deal with this evil and in a certain way protect both the state and the citizens. For these reasons, looking at what has been heard today in parliament, I expect this strategy to be accepted, and do not be in doubt that Eve, my Ministry, will be realised first, as coordinator, has already done an action programme for the implementation of this strategy. Normally, if it's adopted in this form, if we don't have to look for another solution. I'm sure she'll be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-11-30-0.u23645	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Of course, we're sticking to Huma. I am concluding a unique search on the motion for a decision. After having conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide on the motion for a decision in the voting day. We continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours, with a unique search of the 6th item of the agenda. Thank you for your responsibility, rest, we have a busy day tomorrow. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. Based on the official record, I find that the sittings are attended by 94 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the start of today's work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending MPs: Blagica Kostic, Dusan Prorokovic, Veroljub Stevanović, Ivana Kovacevic and Miroslav Zivkovic. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: – DEFINITIONS OF THE LAWAL FUNCTIONS For this item of the agenda, you have received a motion for a decision on the termination of the court's duties to judges of general jurisdiction, which has been submitted by the Committee for Justice and Administration. I remind you, according to Article 160(3) and Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Since the total time for discussion is five hours, I realize that the time of debate is by parliamentary groups: SRS one hour, 36 minutes; DSS one hour, three seconds, 36 seconds; DS 43 minutes, 12 seconds; G17 plus 37 minutes, 12 seconds; SPS 26 minutes, 24 seconds; New Serbia and Independent MPs 9+9 20 minutes, 24 seconds; MPs who do not belong to any parliamentary group, four SPS MPs, two SDP MPs, and five independent MPs per five minutes on the basis of Article 93. Rules of Procedure. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 160(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a single review of the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative - Jovan Palalic, chairman of the Committee on Justice and Administration, want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 93(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by Serbian Radical Party parliamentary groups until the opening of a search for a written word, with a number of MPs. I give my word to Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic. Before Mr. Krasic takes his word, just one announcement. For the 7th item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee to the German financial organisation KFW under the mandate of JP "Electroprivreda Serbia" to finance a mining equipment project for the needs of the Western mine of Tamnava – which entered the agenda later, on the basis of the fact that the Assembly voted for an emergency procedure, the government's representative confirms that this point has been withdrawn from the procedure from the agenda of this session. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
