ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. In today's working day, we will have a day to vote on two points of the agenda and the start of the 11th extraordinary session, which was scheduled yesterday in 12.00 hours. That's why I'm asking you to start working on the Rules of Procedure. According to official records, 113 MPs are present. Please determine the number of persons present at the beginning of the working day. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. Thank you. There are more than 86 MPs present in the room. The start of the vote, which requires 126 MPs, I schedule in 10.30 hours. Thank you. [[After break – 11,10]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again a good day, we continue the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. The implementation of the electronic voting system has established that 127 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that the MPs are prevented from attending: Dusan Mrvos and Marko Djurisic. Before we move on to a decision on the draft laws on the agenda of this session, we need to adopt the minutes from the previous National Assembly sessions. You were presented the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 22, 24, 27, 28, 29 and 30 June, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 July 2005 and the minutes of the session of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held in 2005 on 15, 18, 19, 20 and 21 July 2005. As more than 126 MPs attend today's session, there is a quorum for the adoption of minutes from previous sessions, based on Article 86(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that the review in the Management Board's work department has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has delivered such a written statement of objection to the minutes of those sittings. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 22, 24, 27, 28, 29 and 30 June, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 July 2005. For 129 of the 129 MPs present. The National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 22, 24, 27, 28, 29 and 30 June, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 July 2005. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, held on 15, 18, 19, 20 and 21 July 2005. For 131, 14 of the 145 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 2005 National Assembly session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 15, 18, 19, 20 and 21 July 2005. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Proposal for a SPECIFIC EDUCATION LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on higher education to the vote, in principle. For 147, two of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly accepted the bill in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the MPs: Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović to Article 90; Dragoljub Zivkovic, under article. 29 and 90; Milan Marković in Art. 10, 29, 38, 41, 49, 61, 63, 64, 65, 68, 75, 90 and 98; Dragor Hiber on Article 14; Zarko Obradović, Milisav-Miša Petronijevic and Svetislav Krstić on Article 60; Milisav-Miša Petronijevic on Article 78; Zarko Obradović on Article 78; and Svetislav Krstić on Art. 48, 53, 70 and 72; Zarko Obradović and Milisav-Miša Petronijevic in Art. 32, 34, 40, 71, 120 and 130; Milisav-Miša Petronijevic in Art. 63, 75. and 104; Zoran Angelković and Zvonimir Stević on Article 109; Slobodan Pajović on Article 41; Slobodan Vuković and Slobodan Pajović on Article 60. and Ljiljana Nestorović on Article 60. 11 and 23. It's a bill of law. At a meeting of the Committee on Education, Proposer Slobodan Vuksanovic, Minister of Education and Sports, withdrew the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the article. 15, 25, 28, 29, 30, 35, 37, 78 and 95. Also, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milan Markovic to the article. 83, 84 and 85 and Velimir Simonovic in Art. 118th and 130th and heading above Articles 131th and 131th. It's a bill of law. During the search of the Bills, MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav-Miša Petronijevic were withdrawn in particular of the amendment. 86, 87, 90, 91, 92, 110, 116 and 118, and MP Velimir Simonovic to member 95. It's a bill of law. The draft law has become an integral part of the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to Art. 4, 6, 10, 13, 36, 38, 40, 41, 64, 71, 72, 75, 89, 116 and 118; amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and MP Milan Markovic to the same text. 3; Amendment submitted in the same text by MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav-Miša Petronijevic and MP Dragor Hiber to Article 6; amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the same text and MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav-Misa Petronijevic per article. 18 and 47; amendment submitted in the same text by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, MP Nemanja Sarović and MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav-Miša Petronijevic to Article 62; amendment submitted in the same text by the Government of Serbia and MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianić to Article 90; amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the same text; and, with correction, the MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerović to Article 110; amendment of the Committee for Education to the Article. 15, 25, 28, 29, with a correction, 30. to the title above Articles 69 and 69, 78, 86, 87, 90 and 95; amendment of MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisava-Miša Petrovic to Article 4; amendment, with correction, of the People's Parliament of Zvonimir Stevic to Article 10; amendment, with correction, of Ljiljana Nestorović to Article 10; amendment of MP Meh Omerović to Article 13; amendment, with correction of Ljiljana Nestorović to Article 13; amendment of the National MP Velimir Simonović to Article 16 and amendment of the National MP Milan Markovic to Article 81. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 121, 14 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the 139 abstentions, voted 16 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Article 9 and Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 138, it was not 16 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 140, did not vote 15 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 10 and Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Verica Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 139, it was not 16 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 102, they did not vote 32, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 133, it did not vote 19 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Svetislav Krstic and Rajko Baralic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 121, 13 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by Ambassador Dragore Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 122, 12 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For five, against 117 abstentions, 19 did not vote 15 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted the title above article 11 and article 11 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 140, a abstentioned one, did not vote 15 out of 156 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 12 and 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 136, it did not vote 19 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. National MP Momir Markovic tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 13 and all other members of the bill the word "National Council" be replaced by the words "National Educational Council" in an appropriate decline. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 17 of the 154 MPs did not vote against 137. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three against 119 abstentions, 15 did not vote 18, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 119, 19 of the 155 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not accepted this amendment and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three against 117 abstentions, the 16 did not vote 19 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 14th amendment were brought together by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education did not accept this amendment with the correction, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 126, a abstentioned one, they did not vote 24 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav - Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 21, against 102 abstentions 10, they did not vote 22, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 16th amendment was submitted by MP Radisa Ilic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. One, against 136, was not voted 18 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Svetislav Krstic and Milisav - Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 115, a abstentioned one, did not vote 19, out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 29th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. 141 did not vote 14 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 135, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 154 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 29th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 138, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 30th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 136, it did not vote 19 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 132, he did not vote 21 out of 155 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 32nd Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Pai Momchilov. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 131, they did not vote 22, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 32nd amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 140, it did not vote 13, out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 127, 25 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 116, 19 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Mašić. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 139, there was no vote of 14 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Velimir Simonovic submitted to the 34th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 133, a abstentioned one, did not vote 16 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 134, 18 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 36th Amendment was submitted by Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 134, 18 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 119, there was no vote of 16 of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 118, it did not vote 16 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For four, against 121 abstentions, two did not vote 25 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 41st amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 132, 21 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 125, nine out of 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 47th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 118, 17 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. A member of the 47th Amendment was submitted by a member of the Members of the People of Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 139, there was no vote of 14 out of 153 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 133, it did not vote 19 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 48th amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 120, with 15 abstentions, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 116, 19 of the 153 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 53rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 117, 19 of the 154 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Milan Markovic submitted to the 54th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 117, the vote was not 16 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic, Milisav Misa Petronijevic and Svetislav Krstic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 104 abstentions, 17 did not vote 12, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Zlatan Jovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 135, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 60th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 138, it did not vote 13, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 60th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 140, it did not vote 12 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 122, it was not 13 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 61st Amendment was submitted by the Ambassador of the Verse of Radet. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 138, it did not vote 13, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav - Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 120, 12 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 137, 12 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Vojislav Milajic submitted to the 63rd amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 135, it did not vote 16 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Veselinović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 140, it did not vote 11 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 65th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Petar Jojic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20 against 120, it did not vote 11 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above Articles 67 and 67 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Velimir Simonovic and Natasa Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 131, 19 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 69th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 120, 12 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 70 and article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one against 135, it was not 16 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 71 and article 71 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Nedeljkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 117, a abstentioned one, did not vote 34, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 71st Amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 119, there were 14 votes, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 71st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 127, a abstentioned one, did not vote 18, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragoljub Zivkovic submitted to the 71st amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 20, against 118, there were 14 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 72nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 6, v. 125, a abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 127, they did not vote 23 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 119, with 18 abstentions, 15 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 75th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 140, it did not vote 12 out of 152 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 78 and article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Vukkovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For three, against 121 abstentions 14, 14 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The title above article 78 and article 78 of the amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 118, two abstentions, 17 of the 152 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 78th amendment was filed by MP Velimir Simonovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 116, abstentioned 15, it did not vote 18, out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Bozidar Koprivica. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 136, 15 did not vote, a total of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 79th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Vukovic and Slobodan Pajovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For two, against 117, he did not vote 31, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Members of the 84th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Misa Petronijevic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 115, 15 of the 149 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Branislav Stevanovic submitted to the 85th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 136, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. An MP named Milet Poscurica submitted to the 87th amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 130, it did not vote 20, a total of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 90th Amendment was submitted by MP Sreto Peric. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 136, it did not vote 14, a total of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Ambassador Dragore Hiber has submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 120, a abstentioned one, did not vote 13, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 95th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 119, there was no vote of 16 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vladimir Homan and Milojub Albianic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For six, against 130, there were 14 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 101st Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 19, against 117, there was no vote of 14, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Parliamentarian Milan Markovic submitted the amendment to Article 102. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18, against 119, it was not 13 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 103rd amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 18 against 120, 12 of the 150 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milan Stevovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 134, there were no 16 votes, a total of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The 108th amendment was submitted by Leila Ruzdic-Trifunović. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 121, 14 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Member of the 110th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Markovic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17, against 119, 15 of the 151 MPs did not vote. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Dragore Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 17 against 120, it did not vote 14 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. Alexander Djordjevic submitted the amendment to Article 116. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For one, against 137, it was not 13 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Against 133, it did not vote 18 out of 151 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 118 by Ambassador Dragore Hiber. The proposing representative and the Committee on Education have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 16, against 120, there were 14 out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on higher education in general. For 145, it did not vote 5 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on higher education. We move to item 2 of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the RADIFFUSION LAW. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting in principle. For 129 against 16, it did not vote 5 out of 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Before the adoption of the amendment decision, I remind you that MP Vukosav Tomašević withdrew the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information on Article 3. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that an integral part of the bill has become: an amendment which is proposed to add Article 2a and the amendment to Article 6 after Article 2. The Governments of the Republic of Serbia, as well as amendments of the People's MPs Alexander Lazarevic to Article 3 and Predrag Markovic to Article 5. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The proposer's representative and the Committee on Culture and Information did not accept this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. For 15, against 124, there were no 11 votes, out of 150 MPs. The National Assembly did not accept this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Broadcasting in general. For 128, against one, not 9 votes, out of 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Broadcasting. Since the session shows violations of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 100(4). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP remains on the claim that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the National Assembly will decide without delay on the issue on the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Tomislav Nikolic, at a session on 29 August 2005, at 13.45 p.m., indicated that the National Assembly's dignity was injured by the Democratic Party's president -- Boris Tadic. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For one, against 119, it was not 13 out of 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have not been injured. National MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić, at a session on 29 August 2005, at 14.40 p.m., indicated that a member of 104 was injured. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Against 120, it did not vote 12 out of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 99. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. (The session is closed at 12.20 hours. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18771	The 11th Extraordinary session of 30 August 2005 (First Day of Work) (The session began at 12.20 p.m. Predrag Markovic, president of the National Assembly, is chaired by Predrag Markovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18772	We move to the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, called for 29 August 2005. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there are more than 84 MPs, which is enough for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from being attended by MP Marko Djurisic. In accordance with Article 85 of the Statute. 4 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that I called this session on Monday for the special purpose of establishing the National Assembly as soon as possible the Government of the Republic of Serbia in its request for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of Serbia, but since it was just finished with the vote of the 10th session, we are now moving to the 11th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in 2005, which was called at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been submitted to you for the maintenance of the 11th extraordinary session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005, the following Dn e n i d: 1. Proposal for a Law on State Administration, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 2. Proposal for a law on civil servants, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 3. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 4. Proposal for a law on advertising, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 5. Proposal for a Consumer Protection Act, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 6. Proposal for a price law, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. National MP Miloljub Albianic, based on Articles 90 and 140. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle search be carried out on the proposal for a Law on State Administration and the Proposal for a Law on Civil Servants (1nd and 2nd Points of the Agenda), as well as a common principle search on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition, the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Consumers and the Proposal for a Law on Prices (3, 4, 5 and 6th of the Agenda). Does MP Milorad Albianic want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. For 127, against one, the abstentions were not voted by two, out of 130 ambassadors. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Before we move to work, a notice, and I think that you received it in writing in the meantime, I will read it to you: "We inform you that from today, 30 August 2005, we will be performing in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as independent MPs, and on the basis of yesterday's agreement with the President of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Democratic Party, Mr Boris Tadic and the head of the Democratic Party Parliament Club – Boris Tadic in the National Assembly, Mr Dusan Petrovic. With respect, Bajram Omeragic and Esad Djudjevic. "Before moving to a joint search, according to the Rules of Procedure, the word was asked by MP Ispanović Istvan.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18773	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People, I am a member of the People's Parliament in the third term, and I have never abused this speaker in any way, and now I will do so. I want to inform you of an unkind and shameful event that took place today, this morning in Subotica, in my beloved city, when a bomb was dropped on the building of the President of the Dukes' Union of Hungarians, Joseph Kasa. It's a very sad event. And since 1991 (when there were such cases in Subotica) one of these cases has been in detail and I know, since on that day in 1991, in March, I was on duty as an investigative judge, so I went to the scene. It's never been determined who did it. I personally know the unsub of that part, but there's nothing I can do about it because I have no proof. The event today is a follow-up of events that take place against members of the Hungarian national minority, beginning with fights, beating up representatives of the Hungarian national minority, acts that are never characterized as crimes, but possibly as a violation, through proceedings conducted against the current and former officials of Hungary in Subotica, starting with the day when the Nationalist Nikoovic was elected as district prosecutor from Kosovo. I responsibly claim that these actions are without any basis. I have to express my dissatisfaction, since after this I can expect even more ruthless events. I think the authorities of this country are obliged to take appropriate measures to prevent it. I apologize for misusing this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18774	Thank you. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 and 2 and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 94. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs and members of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Just to read who the representatives are for these agenda points: for the Democratic Party of Serbia, the authorised representative is Jovan Palalic, for the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic is Gordana Komic and for G17 plus the authorised representative is Marko Krstin. We move to a joint principled search of the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda: – Proposal for a Law on State Administration and Proposal for a Law on State Officials Does the Representative of the Proposal of Zoran Balinovac, Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, want a word? (Yes) The word is Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18775	Dear Vice President, honourable Members of the People, it is my duty today to present to you two laws – the law on state administration and the law on civil servants. Both laws come on the agenda after the adopted Government Act and together with the Government Act should represent a final solution to the transformation of our state administration and our official system. In short, I will remind the evolution of the creation of these two laws. The European Agency for Reconstruction, somewhere in May 2003, launched a project to reform the state administration and service system in the Republic of Serbia and just when experts from the European Agency for Reconstruction were preparing to leave Serbia, as there was no talker or one interested in reforming the administration in the previous government. The new government has approached a more serious state administration, much more serious and even that part of the reform of our legal system, which is at all called the institutional part of the reform. Soon the Council for State Administration was established, the Law on Government was made, in co-operation with the European Agency for Reconstruction, and the laws that I present to you today were also made. In doing so, it was really about co-operation. No one has imposed solutions on us, nor have we accepted solutions indiscriminately, trying to bring them into Serbia's legislation. We simply used the help of foreign experts to the extent that we needed her. Our situation wasn't so bad, because we were able to assess old experiences, see what mistakes exist in the countries of the European Union, because they have been applying these laws for many years now, and that, afterwards, we choose what we consider to be the most similar to the Serbian state administration and the Serbian service system. So it's about the laws of co-operation, not the laws that were made under the patronage or under the protectorate, or otherwise. I would also like to point out that, especially with the Civil Service Act, we have also consulted the Independent Union and the Independent Union of Serbia and their resolute unions, so to speak, and that they have also supported these laws. It's basically two related laws that regulate the same area, just one different way. More specifically from a different perspective. While the Law on State Administration governs the state administration through institutional methodology, i.e. the methodology of the regulation of the institutions of the state administration, the Law on civil servants is governed by the state administration by its human substrate. That's why, whenever possible, whenever I look back at the solutions in these two laws, I'm going to talk about one and the other, because it's actually just the same thing that's being viewed in a different methodology and in two different ways. When it comes to the Law on State Administration, the most important newspapers are that they clearly classify those tasks of state administration that enter the domain of political, creative political decisions, which are involved in the creation of government policy and of those other jobs that could be called administrative affairs, in the narrow sense of words, or routine affairs. Compared to this distinction, the authorities of the state administration seem to be in some way differentiating in the personal substrate of the public administration bodies themselves. The state administration is designed so that in the administrative authorities, the authorities of the state administration, instead of the current ten officials, who are elected by political criteria, only two remain. It's the minister and secretary of state. Within the administrative departments, there are differences again: between those who perform management positions and jobs that depend on the organisation and direction of the authorities of state affairs and those who work more on routineized issues. As a special quality of the State Administration Act, I would say that he created all the assumptions for the depoliticalization of the state administration. Since some expressions are used too lightly and sometimes recklessly, sometimes to accept the situation of ideological bribes without being explained what they mean, I will explain what I mean by a political official. A political official is every official who binds his mandate to the duration of his term of office, either by being in a position when a new government comes in or by leaving office when the government that replaces that government has appointed him comes in. This further means that his further responsibility is for a job that is exclusively political. According to political criteria, he came, according to political criteria and went away. Henceforth today, more in practice and slightly less in laws, we have ten categories of those who come with the new government and leave when this and the new government, with which they have come, expires. Such solutions are devastating. First of all, it is hardly necessary to talk about meeting unprofessional and political criteria when selecting the personnel who operate the state administration at the expense of professional criteria. Then there is simply one problem – the administration is bad, the worse it works, competent people don't come to a position, and those who are competent can only come to a position if they bow down to one of the ruling parties, which of course should never be a condition. So, they destimulate talented, ready and competent, and they are stimulated by the principle of political selectivity. The next very bad feature of this solution is that it creates a very dangerous discontinuity in the work of the state administration. You know, as soon as the government changes, as soon as the government changes as permanently or primarily a direct political authority, it goes along with it the shift of entire administrative officials, and sometimes it takes two to three months, and you in those two to three months, where they change until then and become new administrative officials, de facto you have discontinuity in the work of the state administration, which can sometimes be so dangerous to challenge the crisis in the state without talking about a drop in quality. So I clarified what the term "functioner" means by political standards, explained the problems and said that it exists only in Serbia. From there, we have clearly divided into the Law on State Administration those functions that are political, which relate to the government's mandate, from those functions that are expert, professional, which should be a chain of beochuga, a chain of continuity of state administration, where people would come and go exclusively according to professional criteria. Of the current ten political functions in the state administration, only three remain. Within the very concept of state administration in Serbia, anyone involved in administrative law faces one difficulty called the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Our Constitution envisioned the existence of ministries, special organisations and administration bodies in the form of ministries. All three bodies are constitutionally defined bodies. For all three bodies, the demarcation is determined exclusively by law, so it cannot by sublegal law and all these bodies are established by law. Hence, the issue of their relationship is very serious and very painful and so far, it seems to us, has not been settled in the right way. The ministries are the main holders of the state administration, and it's completely undeniable. Ministers, as resor heads, for their work and for the situation in the area they are in charge of the National Assembly, above all, as well as the Prime Minister. However, a question has been raised about the management body's relationship with the rest of the ministry. There, of course, the ministry's majority exists. The Ministry is older. That's more like it. Unfortunately, the current law does not show what this majorism consists of, what the championship consists of and what the relationship between the ministry and the authority of the administration is in its composition. We tried to solve that problem. It is also not a clear relationship between ministries and special organisations. Unlike the ministries, run by ministers elected by the National Assembly, special organisations are managed by persons appointed by the government, therefore, by persons with a undoubtedly lower level of legitimacy. But what is the same under our constitution is that the government has the same supervisory powers over both ministries and special organisations. So we come up with one absurd thing that the government can take towards the minister, as head of the ministry, the second is the minister as a political official, so that we separate these two things, so that the government can take the same supervision as the special organisation, although the legitimacy, if you want the legalities of their executives, is not in the same way or near the same way. On the other hand, the minister is responsible for his work, alongside the government, of course the Assembly. The head of a special organization corresponds to the Government, not the National Assembly. However, there is no direct link between the executives of a special organization and the National Assembly. One institute that would be called the optional supervision of ministries over a special organisation, optional not in terms of obligation or optionalness, but possibly supervision, not mandatory, in any case, we tried to bind special organisations to ministries and thus, through ministerial responsibility to the National Assembly, create the indirect responsibility of the manager of a special organisation in front of the Assembly. So conditional and short on the state administration law. As far as civil servants' laws are concerned, I'm only going to talk about three changes and try to sum them up by showing their facts to the other institutes. For the first time, in contrast with the solutions so far, the Republic of Serbia is being taken as an employer to civil servants. The fact that the employer is the civil servants of the Republic of Serbia, at least when it comes to civil servants employed in the authorities of the state administration and government, has enabled us to create integrated bodies such as the Board of Appeal, such as the High Official Council and the Staff Management Service. So, only by setting Serbia up as a single employer is we have the opportunity to manage, coordinate and coordinate human resources policy in the state administration in Serbia. Beyond that, not even these new institutional forms, of which it seems to me, the most significant high-ranking council, were not possible. The next thing I'd like to point out is a whole new and completely different concept of a job. Today we have in a positive law of working relations in state bodies, a system that almost unconditionally destimulates progress. Names are tied to people. We have a system of calling, and the titles are due to the work experience and the years of work experience. These titles do not depend mainly on jobs being done and on the jobs being done, so it often happens that someone who is young, someone who is perspective, someone who proves to be able to do both the most complex and complicated jobs in the ministry's workaround, simply, because of the years of work, remains in a lower calling than someone who has more titles, and does routine jobs, such as stamping, such as making routine solutions that work on the gistetner, etc. So this tracking of a man by calling simply destimulates the best ones, destimulates progress, and brings young people into a situation where, before retirement and before age, they get those callings that they like. Of course, in practice, an attempt was made to find a way out of this situation by breaking the law and turning the calling system into elements of social policy. You give each one the highest calling, because the calling depends on the salary, and then you make one more equality, one, conditionally speaking, a toad in the state administration, within which it is difficult to advance. The draft law on civil servants observes work and observes progress, exclusively through the job category. Jobs are classified depending on their complexity. In order for you to make progress, you must overcome all conditions to move from one job to a more complex workplace. So you have to be better, you have to be better than you were a year or two ago. If you want to stay in the old workplace, where you do routine jobs, you don't have to perfect yourself. If you want to perfect yourself, if you want to progress, you will not advance to more calling, but you will advance to more jobs. In this higher workplace jobs are more complex and you need to know more. It is a system that has recently found its use in Western European countries and in transition countries and has so far proved to be very stimulating for the advancement of younger civil servants. So regardless of the degree of school preparation, regardless of the years of work, one job has one weight, one weight is paid. If you want to make progress, you have to master a new job. That's how you get a bigger salary. So you need to perfect yourself to get a bigger salary. As for how to enter the state administration, the law on civil servants opted for the so-called so-called State Department. A semi-open career system, which means that, when it comes to, conditionally speaking, ordinary places, those official places that are not the leading places, that they are coming through the competition institute, which is first internal, and necessarily internal in the bodies of the state administration, and if it fails, then it is a competition that is public and in which all citizens who can participate in the conditions of employment in that job can participate. It's a feature of a semi-open career system, which we can discuss later, that I am now not particularly disputing its personality and its properties through this law. As far as the situation is concerned, which are those leading jobs, such as current ministerial assistants, ministry secretaries, secretaries of special organisations, etc., only after the competition, in a clearly defined competition procedure, with clearly defined criteria which are assessed and clearly defined skills, skills and expertise being examined. So, it will not be possible, as it has been so far, to come to a position according to the principle of party or party membership, but to the position of one who is best at the competition, whether it is an internal competition or, if the internal competition fails, it is a competition that is conducted publicly, in which everyone can participate. That's what I'd say. In the end, I would like to thank the MPs who have submitted the amendments. I would say that the government adopted a solid number of amendments to almost all parliamentary groups, except for the DS parliamentary group, which it did not have under the law on civil servants of the amendment. As for the law on the state administration, these amendments deal with one issue, which is the question of the rights and position of the autonomous province, which we have heard about in the previous days, and what can we talk about when it comes to that. I'd like so much and invite you to take part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18776	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yes, MP Marko Krstini.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18777	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have two really large laws before us, which regulate very important issues related to the functioning of a segment of state government, i.e. executive government, where we have government, ministry, or government authorities. It's one matter that really needed to be arranged. The government has taken significant steps to settle key issues of functioning of the judicial authority. So we've passed laws on courts, prosecutors, the Council of Justice. We've solved the question of rewarding judges, we've passed the Parnic and Administrative Procedure, Family Law, and the government's turn has come. I must immediately say that the state administration reform of Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica's government has approached the studio, that it has adopted a strategy for reforming the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, that this strategy contains, in addition to the narrative work, actions and deadlines in which individual actions are carried out, that these deadlines are implemented according to the established strategy and that it is precisely in the implementation of this strategy prepared, adopted at the Government and proposed this assembly the text of the draft law on state administration and the text of the draft law on civil servants. When we talk about the Bill of State Administration, there are 91 members, it contains basically solutions that reflect the moment we are in. He rests on the rule of law and is practically the result of Serbia's government's efforts to form and affirm the institutions of the Serbian state, and the government is obviously insisting on that, and it should be welcomed. Through this bill, the government is going towards strict compliance with the constitutional principle of the division of power, strengthening and affirming the executive power. What are the general principles on which this law is based? The law respects the achieved level of development, respects the characteristics of the state administration in the state of Serbia on the one hand, and, on the other hand, goes to meet a new constitution, which, of course, should be the crown of the overall legislative activity of this parliament. The aim of this law is obviously to bring the state administration's situation into line with European and global movements and to express the state administration primarily as a service of citizens, and on the other hand to enable the fundamental structural change of administration through its defocus at the central level by transferring a series of powers to the districts and delegations, to transfer from a central level a series of powers to autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities. In 2002, to remind you, there was a Law on determining the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces and the Law on Local Self-Government, which carried out a part of a delegation of government from a central level to a lower form. The law should also rest on the principle of fiscal decentralisation. To implement this fiscal decentralisation is not enough this law, it requires further solutions in other laws and I would like to say my opinion that without fiscal decentralisation there is no real decentralisation in the state administration. What does fiscal decentralisation mean? Autonomous provinces, i.e. the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, cities and municipalities must have their original incomes on the one hand, and their assets must be returned to them on the other. So it's the subject of future laws that two things have to be solved here so we can talk about real decentralisation. Otherwise, this law, or its provisions, will remain unrealized. What else does this law allow? It enables greater openness both in the public and in the work, and as far as officials are concerned, it enables motivation of officials, their professionalisation and of course rationalisation in order to achieve something that is a tendency in the modern administration to achieve as little cost and labour as possible as possible as possible. We must, of course, stick to this, since we belong to the Corps of European Countries, the European Administrative Framework, which requires good governance and open administration, and I view the administration as a service of citizens to whom high quality is sought by citizens by the state administration. Of course, it must abandon the principle that citizens serve the state and the administration and ultimately achieve the principle that the state is a service of citizens and that citizens are in the general interest financing it to achieve some of their interests through the work of the state administration. What are the most significant new solutions to this law that I would draw attention to? I think that one of the most important features of the new law in the state administration is the introduction of legality and the restriction of a kind of self-government, as I would call it, the authorities of the state administration that they have shown here and there in the current development of the state administration in Serbia. For example, Article 14 paragraph 3 provides that in order to take administrative actions that reach into personal freedom, security, the property of citizens, the authorities must have a direct explicit basis in the law. So, absolutely this provision of the law on the state administration as a system law is excluded from the so-called regulation law, it is already required that the law provide for such an possibility for the acts of the Authority of the Administration to reach the highest value guaranteed by our Constitution, namely: personal freedom, property and security, of course life and health. It is not without the state authorities having an explicit basis in law. This basis will especially help lawyers to protect citizens there when state authorities do so and when they apply self-government and, of course, to citizens, which is very important, that these rights are protected. I refer to the public specifically this provision. Furthermore, a very important provision restricting the ministries and other state authorities to derivate constitutional and legal powers by their regulations, so that the ministry and other bodies can only adopt sublegal acts if they are explicitly authorised by law. These are more or less provisions that have the character of constitutional provisions, but at the moment when the Constitution, as it is, does not contain decadently such provisions or only contains their part they represent a significant framework in which the relationship and states towards citizens will be able to establish and where there will be no possibility of the state majorizing in relation to the citizens. We have had a county institution in the Republic of Serbia since 1992. It was regulated by a regulation, which proved insufficient. The district is otherwise of great importance in decentralisation, i.e. deconcentration of the state administration. This law really does in one necessary way, at the necessary level, regulate the authorities and work in the district and relations of the district to citizens, i.e. citizens, the exercise of the rights of citizens in the district. In the law, there is a particularly significant part of the work of the Authority itself, where certain direct powers are given to managers so that they can carry out certain administrative tasks, such as the directives given to workers by the manager to carry out certain administrative work. These are very important provisions (Article 48) relating to internal surveillance in the work of the authority of the administration. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that the authority of the administration can directly take over certain administrative work, regardless of whether it is a specific, working or other lower-degree body, will not carry out the administrative work. This surveillance is very important so that citizens can exercise their rights. I will also point out on the legal and legal certainty line a special obligation to conduct a public debate for the proposing when a law is being prepared that substantially amends the legal regime in one area. Such a provision does indeed contribute to informing the public on the one hand, and more importantly, it allows the public to express themselves in time, or express their views on certain provisions, so that we, as a congregation, can adopt such a law. It is a very important provision of article 79 which speaks of the approach of the administration to citizens in the administrative days when the authorities outside their headquarters carry out certain administrative tasks. Also, in order to control the work of the Authority, deadlines prescribed as an obligation by the Authority to resolve complaints of their work are important. So, so far, the authorities have had no such obligation, and now from the moment they receive the complaint, it's 15 days to answer the complaint. Otherwise, there is a violation of certain provisions, which again means that the employees of the authorities are carrying out appropriate sequencings. At the end of the discussion of this point, when it comes to the State Administration Act, I would like to say that we expect the promoter to come to the general administrative procedure as soon as possible, which will be a condition for this reform to be implemented. I also expect the Law on administrative disputes and the corresponding regulation, such as the Regulation on office operations, archive construction, etc. I hope that's in preparation, and I'd like it to be on the agenda as soon as possible, when it comes to the laws. In relation to the text of the law itself, I will say two more things that I think deserve attention, and they are related to the professional preparation of workers who do the work of solving in the administrative procedure. I think that in the country of Serbia, which is in the 21st century, it is really not enough that, as a minimum, the provision of higher expertise is being provided. I would like to mention that this is a very complex administrative matter, such as solving building permits, expropriation, where it is the most direct procedure in property and human rights, and it is really inadmissible that, for example, when it comes to leaving in court proceedings, it can only be done by someone with a high-priced and judicial test, and when someone limits property rights in expropriation, so it is being taken away and transferred to state property, some immobility in the general interest, it can only have a higher professional arrangement. I think it's a solution that's not good, especially when it comes to the law on state administration as a system law, and I suggest that the Proposer accept the amendment I've given. I know that there could be an objection in that direction that there may not be enough employees, if they weren't trained, however, I would say that according to the data we have with the employment funds there are a very large number of highly educated team members and it really wouldn't be a problem to ensure that within a five-year deadline, the state administration really has officials who will be highly educated and who will be able to fully help citizens with their knowledge and expertise to exercise their rights, especially when the rights are limited. I think that provision could be changed by an elastic transitional provision that those officers who were found in five years could meet those conditions. I want to remind you that we had the same thing in the field of education and education, that there was a high school teacher, and then we raised it to a higher level and we got rid of it within a certain time limit. I don't see any reason we can't do that in the state administration. Compared to the bill on civil servants, which is really very large, a whole new regulation, which really introduces a lot of newspapers, and I think it's only in practice that it's going to show real income. I think the government here has made the right move by proposing one of these laws. The law has 191 members and I will draw attention to members who, in my opinion, are extremely important and who represent the newspaper. We have passed the Law of Conflict of Interest, but here we have the application of these provisions to civil servants. I think it's very important, because there are more detailed issues that have not been settled so far that have really represented and provided the possibility of corruption in the state bodies. I think that there is corruption, it is not largely expressed, but it has and largely favours such an assessment that the rule of law has not been fully implemented in the state of Serbia. The Law on civil servants prohibits the receiving of gifts and the use of work in public authorities, prohibits civil servants from establishing companies, public services, as well as entrepreneurship. Furthermore, it prohibits the performance of functions in legal persons, of certain types of functions, other than certain functions on which the Government has appointed them. So these are the bans that largely enable corruption to be curbed, which again goes towards the government of the Republic of Serbia to establish a rule of law and rule of law in Serbia. It is also a very important issue of the ranking of jobs, which is being edited in a completely new way. Jobs with special powers and responsibilities are set aside, determining who sets them up. It is very important that the setting is done through the first internal competition, which has so far been missing, to perform a personnel redistribution within the authority of the administration. The human resources of our authorities are very important, and it is very important that this law foresees the existence of a human resources plan in order to carry out a specific task of deployment. We have, on the one hand, positions and execution jobs with titles. To point out, both conditions are an internal competition, and if he fails, we have a public competition. When it comes to the injuries of the people involved in these competitions, a special appeal committee is formed and not solely the elders decide on complaints, but decides on a special appeal commission. And it is also foreseen that administrative disputes can be initiated for certain jobs to protect workers' rights or depending on the position they are in, which is again guaranteed by a type of protection outside the authority of the administration, which indeed shows in previous legal practice very good results, that the court controls, as well as in the administrative procedure, the work of the Authority. The very important provisions are the provisions on evaluation as a condition for progress. So it can't progress unless we have twice the highest grade or four times in a row. Also, workers who have poor grades will be a condition for ending employment and from the point of view of citizens is very important that they would not have the opportunity to resolve their rights and obligations for people who do not satisfy the basic professional and working quality and some other quality which, of course, prescribes this law. A significant institution that is new, it is a high official council, it is very important that this advice will bring the code of conduct of civil servants. I think this code of conduct of civil servants will contribute that our citizens really are relieved to come in front of the counter and indeed there's someone they can talk to, who knows their problem and who can solve it the right way. A law on civil servants provides for a new institution, and these are the tenants. They build a working relationship with the labour contract and work on the business of a technical nature. Thus, it allows for the decommissioning of professional jobs, executive and positioning in relation to technical tasks carried out as secondary jobs. G17 Plus will vote in favour of these laws and believes the government is on track to achieve a state administration reform strategy. We believe that the adoption of these laws will improve the area of the state administration to a large extent and create conditions for a single system of separate three components of the government to be achieved in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18778	The word is by MP Gordana Comic, authorised representative of the Democratic Party – Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the two draft laws that are before us are a draft law on state administration and a bill on civil servants. If we remember the draft law on state administration was on the agenda at the night session when we were doing the Bill on Government and then it was withdrawn from the procedure, so that today's agenda would arrive with the same text as the one that was withdrawn. The minister's opinion was that it should be updated and there were many objections, and apparently that opinion changed in the meantime. In addition to the Government Act, which this Assembly has voted and which is before the Constitutional Court for the examination of certain provisions on compliance with the Constitution and with the laws that follow, as regards administrations, are laws which are governed, so the state is internally governed, the rights and obligations of those which the state employs directly and should be arranged to provide for a mechanism for Serbia's citizens to benefit from it, to improve the quality of the service of the state we are building together, which is the state as a public service. Not one, nor another law, as neither the Government Act has done, offers any hope that the text offered to the National Assembly will really change something in the quality of the state as a service when it comes to state administration, or that this law will improve the position of civil servants, i.e. to enable what the secretary in his opening statement has mentioned. We will address these two laws in three themes: the first subject is the language of which the laws are written; the second topic is the most obvious provisions, which show what we consider unnecessary and in the Law on State Administration or what we consider to be incompatible with the Constitution and what we consider, from time to time, contrary to common sense; and I will illustrate this by quoting the provisions. The third is a description of what is said in the announcement of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the secretary, when these laws are commented, which is to abolish the depolitisation of the state administration, to improve the material position and status of civil servants in our society and, of course, to benefit from such a reform of the state administration of citizens and citizens of Serbia, which, unfortunately, under these proposals of the law will not be possible, but, fortunately, they are easily variable, so there will be good legal proposals on government, state administration, civil servants. The State Administration Act has members who are an illustration of what I'm talking about. So, as far as language is concerned, every member has a rubrum, as does the Government Act and the Civil Service Act. Why he couldn't explain himself to us, it's the slightest lack of law. What are problematic provisions, such as in Article 14, which was quoted by my colleague, concerning the enforcement of laws, other regulations and general acts, it is a margin above the member, which says: "In order to take administrative actions that reach into personal freedom and security, physical and psychological integrity, property and other human rights and freedoms, the authorities of the state administration must have a direct basis in the law." When you write it like this, then you positively define that administrative actions can be taken if you have the basis for the law to take administrative actions and those that reach into personal freedom. Assuming what the legislator was saying was, in fact, a violation of some law. Then the violation of this law is the basis for your administrative action to reach into your personal freedom, etc. But your human rights and when you break the law, there remains a package of human rights that you must, as a state, take care of. So you have what is a violation of some law that exists and you have obligations to protect your civil and human rights, even when you break the law. These are the famous differences between justice and the rule of law and it's always good to follow the rule of law system, because it's good for everyone, not a personal or emotional sense of justice. So this provision should not stand, for the fellow who mentioned it – we read it differently. If you have such a provision as to civil liberties and personal rights, which we read differently, it should be a sign of an alert to anyone who submits the text of the law in the Assembly. So this is proof that the language of the law is not right. The language of the law, for example, in the third position of Article 15, with the edge of the rule of law by the authorities of the state administration, that third position reads: "The order orders or prohibits any behavior in a situation of general importance." That's what you have, legally formulated, in many places, completely unnecessary. Either you know what an order is or you don't know what an order is. Do not allow the MPs to quote and read a sentence that reads that orders or prohibits behavior in a situation of general importance. These quoted provisions, I deliberately remind you again, because I told Minister Loncar, who, when the law was withdrawn the second time from the procedure at the end of the night, when we talked about the Law on Government, said yes, it is indeed a failure and should be corrected. Apparently, they've reconsidered it one more time, so they like it, which is the free will of the lawmakers. What is the idea of the Law on State Administration is that the way of the state administration, as proposed by this law, will help depolitise the state administration. It is one of the great delusions that easily slips away with the language of anyone who wants to say – here, we will reform the state administration. The depolitisation of the state administration, with or almost nothing to do with the regulation that you bring, has direct ties to political will – whether you depolitize the state administration or not. We, as the Democratic Party, supported a government that had a chance to implement depolitisation completely independent of the 1991 law, which concerned the state administration. We didn't do it, we didn't do it the right way, and a lot of mistakes were made the next structure and idea of party people, which you just trust. So that's how politicisation begins by some political structure having no confidence in the state administration, not because the state administration itself is bad, on the contrary, in the state administration in Serbia, therefore, in ministries, organs, special organisations do excellent people, they work high-ranking people. Why did politics fall into the trap that, basically, politicians are introducing politics into the state administration? Don't do it on your own. The government, whose opposition we are now, no one was stopping, no one was defending the depolitization of the state administration. No one has defended her from conducting internal competitions within the state administration, no one has defended her days of work, they say – our political will is to demonstrate the depolitisation of the state administration. It didn't happen because you still don't have the will to depolitize the state administration. It'll be like that until there's enough pressure to stop the atmosphere against the workers in the state administration. This law will not ensure depolitisation. This law, by introducing five-year mandates and formal terms and conditions, by reducing electoral functions, essentially introduces nothing new, because you do not change the director of the Environmental Protection Board, no law has ever bothered you and prevented you from doing so. To abolish the Ministry of Environmental Protection and form the Administration beyond common sense, no law can prescribe for you – don't do that, we need the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources. So, depoliticalization of the state administration is much more a matter of common consciousness that we share in that citizens and citizens benefit from us, as politicians who change, because we have fought for it every four years, no matter where, we trust professional people who will inform us well, who will be our service to things that we do in the Assembly, which will be our service to things that we do as ministers or elsewhere. However, you currently have in our state administration a situation that exists in society, which is quite a serious matter which, unfortunately, we cannot debate speaking of the provisions of this law, but it is my duty to mention it. So, as you have very significant groups of people within the security service, of various kinds, who think that the state is too serious a job to give in to politicians, so they're going to agree, so you have these groups that have their own newspapers, so you have groups that have their own politicians. How are you going to let politicians, someone from the security service, run the state, so you have obviously politicians who think that making laws and organizations is too important and only ours to be left to the workers of the state administration. The same are paradoxical both things; the currents within the security service, which they think you can't let politicians run the country, get involved better and make your newspaper, talk to the newspapers, etc. That is how politicians and politicians should build mutual trust with people from the state administration, who together work to make Serbian and Serbian citizens see benefits. Where does this government law fall? On us, as citizens and citizens who want to get something from the state administration! They will appreciate the quality of the state administration, not by what provisions are in your law theoretically, but by how it is applied, so you will have, say, municipalities and cities, although I know that local self-government is not a direct subject, but it is easier for me to make an example, and the ministry, too, you will have people from direct communication saying, "This ministry is good and people from which I benefit, and I can't do anything for myself." So we're missing it in the state administration law, and we were hoping that when Minister Loncar pulled the law for the first time, that way we could talk, so we could talk about how to define exactly what our problem is. So, the problem of politicizing the state administration is not government workers, it's politicians. The problem is that what the state administration needs to do again is not workers in the state administration, but politicians who need to agree here in the Assembly who will be responsible for the law, not only to pass but to apply the law, because we haven't completely figured that out, as much as we do theoretically know. I know that the answer – the government is responsible for law enforcement, the minister will come, the government will come and we'll talk to the government about application, but that's not happening. I just want to put a realistic tone into the debate about all the laws so that the shortest time will pass for those who have us both sitting here and those in the state administration and those in the government, and these are citizens and citizens in Serbia. In the Law on State Administration, I will quote only two other members, i.e. one chapter with edges, which is Chapter VIII — The relationship between the authorities of the State Administration with other bodies, Articles 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, concerning local self-government and autonomous provinces. Article 62 is the relationship of the organ, but from that head I quote only parts from 72 to 76 concerning relations with autonomous provinces. That's the only difference. Article 1 (Article 75) Here he says: "The order laid down by a general act of the Autonomous Province may bring a claim to the competent court for the protection of the rights of the Autonomous Province, if it considers that by an individual act or by the actions of the Authority of the State Administration, one of the constitutions or laws is guaranteed the right of the Autonomous Province." It's an attitude that has no place in this law. Autonomous provinces either have judicial protection or have no judicial protection. If they don't have it, you can't introduce it with this law on state administration. If they have it, they don't have to write you in law because it's already decided that they have it or they don't have it. I don't comment on whether they should have it or not. I can honestly tell you that we are in favour of an individual appeal to the Constitutional Court. I believe that an individual (as a citizen and as a citizen) must have judicial protection in some new constitution, but this is completely unnecessary and there is this in all members; unnecessary language, forests of rubrums and texts that do not go into the essence of the application of things. So when it seems too cabinet-like, it doesn't promise in application, there's no clarity that any legal text would have to have. Every mystery so far is that lawyers, however much I respect and respect these titles, because over the years and I learn from better than I do and I read what I can do – it is not good to write a law so that no one understands it. Writing the constitution and the law is good writing if anyone can understand, because these laws exist because of people and not because of high-quality lawyers who, by means of ambiguous possibilities and interpretation, essentially bring more confusion into the legal system than is the case of the adoption of a new regulation. The Law on State Servants refers practically to all the employees of the authorities of the State Administration, so the ministries, bodies and special organisations, courts, public prosecutors, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the National Assembly, the employees of the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Service of the Authority whose members are elected by the National Assembly. They are all called state authorities and related general, informational, material and financial, accounting and administrative affairs. So there are a huge number of people in Serbia to whom this law applies. I'd like to hear the secretary's assessment of the number. So we can have a rough assessment for the ministries and related organizations, but here I can hardly dare to estimate what the number of people whose personal lives, existences, careers this law applies to. These are the people you accuse with the first law of being politicized at the same time. They're just a means. Politicians are politicizing them, and politicians stop politicizing when they say – we will not politicize and we will not abuse our director, our deputy minister, my assistant, and I will not go ahead with my party colleague in the ministry, etc. It's a question of changing the standard of behavior. The hardest thing to do is to change your own behavior and thus enable equality for everyone else. The Law on civil servants introduces provisions and division to officials and deputies. We had a question about why an officer and why a tenant. It is also explained in the law that officials are those who have governmental authority in the job description and that they are holders of persons such as cafe cooks, maids, drivers, etc. I'll refer you to the dictionary of our language, "Mother of Serbs", the book of page 574, which reads: "The deputy – the one in which the servant is in." So it's about the synonyms this law makes a valuable difference. So, you bring in the synonyms and you divide into the officers and the tenants, and therefore you push some kind of business into the tenants and some kind into the clerks. That's not good, and you shouldn't let yourself vote for something like this because it's inadmissible both from the point of view of language and from the point of view of the idea that we want in this law. In the same dictionary of the Serbian Croatian language, "Mother of Serbs", the book of the third, page 574, you even have a female. The noun "student" and you have the definition of female person "student" or "officer". So it's about the synonyms. You still have the synonyms in the book of six of the same dictionaries of our language "Mother of Serbia", Novi Sad, "the clerk", excuse Serbia for a little bit of reading, so we have written laws, so "the clerk" – "as a permanently employed person doing office, office or any other service"; "officer – the undersigned"; that's the third synonym by the dictionary "Mother of Serbian". Here you have an interesting female: "the clerk", that's the clerk's wife, and "the clerk" is the female clerk. And there's even "the clerk," which gives birth to associations that I don't have time to work for right now. It's unnecessary, it reminds me of the laws before the '90s, and I have with you to share the creativity and humor of a group of people who worked at the "Culture" in Novi Sad, who because of such a desire as this "officer" in their culture establishment, a woman who was called "coustos hygienic". It is unnecessary for you to introduce such things into laws, and it is unnecessary for you to share officers and tenants, namely that a language that does not know the difference between the under-soldiers and the officials, you make a valuable distinction because you say that the tenants are the ones who can do these jobs everywhere, and as officials, they are the ones who do these jobs for the state administration only there. And in the last minute, I must as a reason why we cannot support these laws and why they will be changed, as one of the first ones, except that they are easily variable, an explanation that I quote, given in the bill of law that we have before us, says: "The exercise of administrative activities, first of all, implies public services, which create and provide conditions for daily life and the work of citizens and contributes to the development of society as a whole. It is now fulfilling its function by primarily becoming the regulator of social processes and less the instrument of government." Only such sentences, such as the sentence that modern government models stem from the concept of the social function of the administration, are the reason that no parliamentary group, which considers itself serious, does not vote for such a law. The ministries are educated according to the unitary model... (President: time, Mrs. Comic. ) and the most beautiful of all (on page 2 in a row, since I do not see the number in the material that we have received), says that – the work of the government's authority is subject to government supervision, that it is too much about legal oversight, and the National Assembly. It is a political surveillance that is being carried out indirectly, through the supervision of the National Assembly over the work of the government and resolution ministers. So here you have that we're political surveillance. (President: Mrs. Comić, please bring the end. I'm sorry, it's an incredible opinion of the Assembly, that we're some kind of political surveillance, while the government is like a legal oversight, and we're just politicians. I'm afraid we have both government and government members here who think that laws and rights are too serious to give it to the MPs, to deal with, but they know everything best. It's no shame to make a bad text. It is a shame not to work together to make it good both for the government and for the Assembly and for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18780	Thank you. The word has the secretary of legislation, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18781	Thank you, Mr. Zankov. We heard what we heard. We heard it the way we heard it, but I guess we'll hear something else now. I'll start, if you'll allow me, from this last "small discussion" of surveillance. I won't say anything. I will read only the Constitution – The National Assembly has the authority to exercise control over the work of the Government and other officials responsible for the National Assembly. Control and surveillance are both synonym and Serbian, and that control is political. It is expressed through parliamentary issues and interpretations, through a vote of mistrust, so until the government falls. So, I repeat -- the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says, (in Article 73 point 11.) The National Assembly "contains control" or, if you prefer, oversees the work of the government. It's political control everywhere in the world. Legal control is not, because if legal control were then the Assembly would have the authority to annul the government's regulations. And she did, but at the time of government unity, during self-government socialism. She had it back then, and now she's gone. In constitutional provisions on government, I only quote: "The government oversees the work of ministries and special organisations", which, by the way, are the authorities of the state administration; it "repeals" in the exercise of this surveillance, "or abolishes their regulations that are contrary to the law", which it or the National Assembly have adopted. So, what's the government doing here? By revoking the rules, he's doing legal surveillance. As soon as one regulation is contrary, let's say, to the government's rule of law, it's a legal form of supervision, as soon as it's annulled by a solution. So let us discuss these questions, and I apologize to the MPs for starting at the end. As far as the language of the law is concerned, the Serbian government cannot be responsible for not understanding anything. If something is unclear, if the language used by the legislator is unclear, it may require help. Then, one more thing, there are ways in which laws are read. Please, the law isn't just a literary creation like... No, no, just a moment please, read the law and read the paper is not the same. Article 14 says, "In order to take administrative actions that reach into personal freedom and security, physical and psychological integrity, property and other human rights and freedoms, state administration authorities must have a direct basis in law." There's something called intonation. There's something called norm diction. There's something called a sense of finesse when a norm is read. And that feeling of finessa says – there is no violence without the support of the law or this provision wants to say this – you cannot order a person who threatens the security of other citizens or the security of the Republic, the MUP can forcely bring and keep in rooms for up to 30 days. This is the order of the acting President of the Republic from a time of emergency. That's an order against this. It's an act of coercion... Please, it's an act of coercion against a legal basis. Now, this provision serves to never do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18782	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18783	I don't want it in the law. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] I refer you to the French Code of Civilian, the Swiss Bond Code, the Swiss Civil Code, the German Civil Code. I refer you to those laws that have edges, which are considered to be the highlight of legal art in legal civilization. There have been talks about depoliticalisation of the state administration and, watch out, a law that advocates depolitisation has been criticised. It was a great pledoies of something called political volunteerism during communism. So it's up to the politicians to decide why we need the law. If the committee's comrades agree they'll set up someone based on the competition. And if the comrades of the committee disagree, then there will be no competition, but there will be also for the grandmother and the uncles. Well, the rule of law and law has arisen precisely in mistrust in politics and politicians, and it is precisely an expression of a non-confidential attitude towards human nature. The law and the rule of law were created because of that. Well, that's what Professor Goati explains to 20 pages of his book. You have to legally limit someone to make him do it. You can't expect anyone's will to be carried out. It was the will of the Communist alliance, once, the will of the avant-garde, but the debate with the avant-garde was over the moment we declared the rule of law. He can't depend on anyone's will whether he depolitizes the administration or not. Thus, it simply seems amazing that we today have pedodials for political volunteering at the expense of law and law. Then why do we need laws? Well, good politicians will sort it all out. This is about "officers and tenants", with the Serbian Matica, etc. This is about the ministry having a unitary model, these are already terms that are purely legal-technical terms. So, you will find the term "mandator" also in Croatian law, in Bosnian law and in Slovenian law. On the issue of the autonomous province, which has the right to sue, you know, I will read a current law that regulates the same situation that the previous speaker has criticised. Under the applicable law, if the Autonomous Province Authority considers that the work or act of the Authority of the State Administration, watch out, the action and act are never the same, a violation of the law of the established rights of the Autonomous Province will address the Government in order to protect those rights. Therefore, if the Authority considers that the Autonomous Province organ, its right to autonomy has been violated by the Ministry's act, it will address the Government for protection. When you say, "Well, that's not good," we need a third independent, so the government can't judge the ministry's work, but we need a court, then that provision is criticised. Secondly, why did the provision on the protection of the rights of autonomous provinces find its place in the State Administration Act? The pain is clear. Because they are in violation of that provision, in violation of that right of the Ministry and of a special organisation, and whenever they are in violation of that right, then the norm has its place in the Law on State Administration, because the Law on State Administration, imagine, deals with ministries and special organisations. So, according to the address book, whoever's doing the injury, this is where that provision is being made. Otherwise, where would you go? There is another way to resolve this problem – through a constitutional appeal, but constitutional complaints, unfortunately, the Serbian Constitution does not know. We also heard that now someone is arguing that the issue is being debated before the Constitutional Court. It cannot be debated before the Constitutional Court, simply because the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court is governed by the Constitution and cannot be extended by anyone's political will. She may feel that wearing a penetrating is a threat to the security of the Republic, but that the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court cannot be extended.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18784	Replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18785	I am not going to answer you. I am not going to answer this question. I am not going to answer this question. I am not going to answer this question. How can I tell you, it can't. You cannot tell any Messenger. I will not answer you. You can check in the quote in the stenogram, because it was my quote, my comment in the way you made the law with the edges and you said – I will not answer that. It can't. No official, deputy, clerk, minister can tell the MP - I will not answer you. This is all about you, and nothing about the National Assembly and nothing about the Messengers of the people. The fact that we have a problem with the politicization of the state administration and the way I've made the characteristics of reasons and motives have nothing to do with what you've said here later. So, I was saying that depolitisation is a problem and that we need a quality law to settle, but that the text you offered will not move anything into the depoliticization of the state administration. It would be good if we were to listen carefully to each other, so that we could carefully quote each other. The comment given on political surveillance and the quotation of the Constitution has nothing to do with each other. So I'm going to read again the argument written by either your Ministry or your Secretariat, whoever sent this proposal to the MPs. "The work of the government authorities is subject to government supervision." It's too much about legal surveillance. I didn't slow you down there. I was just quoting the whole section... and the National Assembly. It's about political surveillance that's being done indirectly. By quoting the Constitution, you haven't read political surveillance anywhere. You have not opposed my position anywhere, which remains clear and firm that you cannot call the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a house of political supervision, because we are not. If you want to refer any MPs to how the Government is supervised, you have forgotten another very successful situation and mechanism that exists in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is called "day" when we will question the Government, which is with a lot of promotion, as you do with this law, brought by the promoters into the National Assembly. It's been two months, no days, no government, no ministers, no officials, no tenants. So we know very well what the mechanisms are to get an answer to the question from the government. I asked Minister Velimir Ilic if it is possible that, contrary to the Law on Railways, he did not set up an alternative transport for the Novi Sad-Belgrade railway, which must be remounted, for Beška, for the inhabitants of Čortanovac, Inja, Banstola. So is it possible that, contrary to the law, he will leave citizens and citizens there without alternative transportation? There is no answer to that parliamentary question. (President: Time.) That's not political surveillance. If you want to use any kind of coloquial expression, if we're doing any kind of surveillance, we're controlling all of you from the executive government, which you need to apply laws to make it better for citizens and citizens, it's hard for you to call political surveillance. Political surveillance is something else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18786	Mr Balinovac, Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18787	Just a few words about the rubys. I said that there was no need to specifically elaborate this problem, but that you should look at representative comparative legal texts and see that they all have rubrum. I didn't claim that our law was representative, that it would go into history, etc. Rubrum or title above a member or marginal title, as someone calls it, serves to explain the essence of a member or explain the essence of a section and to make it easier for the reader to get along with the law. It's kind of easier to read and whoever's referred to the law gets in it, if every question that's in a particular section, head, or above a member is singled out in a special title. So that's the point of the rubrum. Rubrum has been left out with us lately because it's hard to write. It's hard for every member to come up with a rubrum. A special effort is for you to come up with a title above each member for 150 or 160 members. That's why he's gone, not because he's unwanted, because he's just bringing beauty, aestheticity and transparency to the law. So, I want to answer, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18788	The word has been given by MP Jovan Palalic, as an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18789	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DSS, as said in the debate on the state administration law, when it was on the agenda for the first time, will support this bill and also the draft law on civil servants. There is no doubt that, after a long period, there is a series of laws before the National Assembly that reform the state administration in the right sense. After the Government Act, which laid the foundations of the reform, clearly regulated relations in the cabinet of the Prime Minister and relations between the government services, clearly separated the powers of the General Secretariat, arranged things in a place where key and strategic political decisions were made, laws, such as the law on state administration and the law on civil servants, which regulate the issues of those parts of state appliances that should take part in the creation of political decisions and, ultimately, the enforcement of laws and other regulations themselves. There is no doubt that when we listen carefully to the criticisms that come on these bill proposals, we listen to them by those who for three years could not propose any valid legal text, in a serious way, to start reforming the state administration. Although, when this country started to open to the EU and it was already quite a look at its approach to integration and to enter into all the negotiations that mean it, one of the first conditions that has been set for us was just a reform of the state administration, because it turned out that in those countries that have taken a rather far from integration in that process, that although a series of regulations that are in line with European communal law are being adopted, we are entering a serious problem as to how the state authorities of these regulations, which are being adopted and agreed, should be applied. Exactly a number of reforms and a series of EU integration processes in these countries fell under the law. That is why it insisted on a new and modern approach to reforming the state administration and in general the state apparatus. It is these two draft laws that are on the best track, and the DSS in its programme has pointed out earlier that it is extremely committed to the reform of institutions and the importance of institutions, and these two laws, together with the Government Act, contribute to this. The National MPs were presented with a strategy of state administration reform by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, where the direction and reform are clearly indicated and where five principles are set up to implement the reform: depolitisation, professionalisation, modernisation, decentralisation. There is no doubt that here the biggest controversy has just raised the question of depoliticalism, but it cannot be fully seen. I think that the speaker who spoke and who criticised such an approach or the absence of such access to the law did not clearly comply with these two laws, and the law on state administration and the law on civil servants, where the principles and principles that exist in the law on state administration are clearly governed by the law on civil servants, primarily through criteria on the basis of which a working relationship is based, criteria based on which a career rise is carried out and the criteria on which the assessment of civil servants is carried out and on which it is based through the institutions of internal and public advertising of deployment and admission to certain jobs. It is precisely when it is seen, when the institute of the High Official Council is considered and when the staff management service is considered to the greatest extent possible to remove politicisation from the state administration. It is in this law on civil servants, which in a comprehensive way regulates access to state administration personnel, which promotes this principle of rationalisation, because through the system and institution of internal competition, the best personnel, personnel who meet the conditions for it, deploys to individual execution places and to new positions. The basis for this depolitisation is clearly given in the state administration law, which is the assistant ministers, directors of state administration bodies, bodies in the composition and special organisations are no longer persons appointed and named according to political will, but through a clear competition. It's diluted in the law on civil servants, and it's just unclear how it is, it's unclear on the basis of which it's claimed that politicization remains here. What is extremely important here to mention, especially in the law on civil servants, is exactly the principle of grading. We have not really had the opportunity to see clearly how much work has been done, nor have the work effects of individual employees in state bodies been evaluated. For these very reasons, there was a drop in motivation to work in certain parts of the governing body. That is exactly what the underlying problem was in the previous period when the authorities of the state administration were concerned. That's why the objects were piled up, which is why it was a major apathy, which is why corruption was involved. There is no doubt that the absence of motivation and absence of consciousness about the possibility of progressing in a career based on its work and merit was an obstacle to making the state administration rightly effective. It is the law on civil servants through regular evaluation and through monitoring of each individual civil servant that raises the possibility of motivation. What is extremely important is that now in a comprehensive way, and we hope to revive the staff management service and that this central staff register will give its results that in one clear way it has a review of the state of the human resources policy, which jobs are vacant, which persons in the framework of the state administration are looking for a job and on this basis can access the calling of internal and public ads. This is exactly the kind of approach that human policy management will allow the state administration to be rational on the one hand, which is the principle that is set out in the strategy, and on the other, it will also enable professionalisation. I think this law on civil servants is a much more elaborate institute of persons who are becoming unscheduled. In the previous period, we had a lot of disputes about what person remains unscheduled, in which way, what rights it achieves, how long it lasts. I think in this law it's quite clearly defined now. As I have said, the law on state administration and the law on civil servants should indeed be watched in full and in pairs, because if these two things are separated, if the notion of politicisation is seen only from the point of view of the state administration law, and all these institutes which are the law on civil servants are developed, the criteria for reception and deployment, evaluation, internal competition, and which are largely removing the issue of politicisation will not be fully seen. What should also be highlighted when observing these two draft laws is that they, no doubt, follow the clear principles and clear concepts given in the government law. In this sense, this whole reform package should be revived as soon as possible, although these are set deadlines in transitional and final provisions. I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia and all its services should be attached to this job as soon as possible and that all these authorities that are scheduled here, and the high official advice and staff management services, are forming as soon as possible. I am of the opinion, and the opinion is of the DSS Parliament Club, that the reforms promoted by these two laws will contribute to making the state administration effective and that all of those regulations that we agree with the EU be implemented in the best and more effective way.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18790	I'm setting a break. Resume at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18791	We'll continue our afternoon work. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18792	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group on these two draft laws. Namely, the discussion of the draft law on state administration and the draft law on civil servants will be elaborated in a different way than my colleagues. I will move individually, only to the extent that it is necessary for this topic and try to give answers to several questions or to ask questions to Mr Balinovac and to get us, as MPs of the National Assembly and the public, the relevant answers. I would like to know whether, given that the Law on State Administration was part of the debate when we adopted the Law on the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so we adopted a certain structure of the Government, and this is an upgrade of this Law and structure, I am also interested in us MEPs, whether this new organisation of government and state administration will increase the number of staff in the administration. It is interesting, then, that this issue was elaborated in the context of data that exists regarding the movement of the state administration by 2000, so-called. democratic changes since 2000 and the work of the so-called democratic governments. What is the plan of the state and government regarding reducing the number of employees, given that there are different statements from the representatives of the state and those who are responsible for speaking about it and those who are not, but all of them are talking about, which creates anxiety among the people concerned and the question why we have not so far or why, as part of this debate, the Law on State Administration and the Law on Civil Service, we do not have a law on employees in the local self-government and autonomous province. If we had that law, we'd have one system that was complete. On this occasion, I would like once again, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to express my regret that we are not discussing the law on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because if there is already a Law on Government, it would be logical to adopt the law on the National Assembly. We will also discuss especially today the employees of this respected home, as they are also covered by the provisions of the law on civil servants, but I think it would be a good idea to have a law on the National Assembly. Of course, not in one vulgar way that is presented in public, from the point of view of receiving employees, i.e. MPs and some life of a congregation that is not, but is trying to present itself in public, but primarily from the point of view of the need to adopt laws on the National Assembly and the foundation of an important institution in the political system of Serbia, the issue of organisation, the issue of the budget of the National Assembly, the regulation of relations with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the President of the Republic of Serbia, means all those issues that are relevant to the work of the National Assembly and in general for the position of the National Assembly. If we have a division of power, then that division into an executive, legislative and judicial, in the opinion of us Socialists, should be completed by law and there is an absolute normative solution that will further highlight this division, because it is good overall for political life and for the relations that exist in Serbia. It is good that this draft law on state administration in its content has those basic principles that should be respected when implementing a reform of the state administration, such as the principle of decentralisation, depoliticalisation, professionalisation, rationalisation and modernisation. What we are interested in is how, in relation to these principles and the structure that is being established, the rationalisation of the state administration will be carried out, because we think it is an extremely important issue for the public administration, and for the rest of the people, we think it is important, because from the way it is implemented and this rationalisation will also be seen that the essence of the government's activities, the potentials that exist or the profile that the government shows. The principles for which it stands will be seen at the implementation of rationalisation. When you look at the current structure of the government, we have the president, the vice president, the head of the cabinet, certain technical services, we have ministers, I'm talking about the structure now to see very practical that there is a danger of multipleing the number of employees and that's the question that Mr. Balinovac needs to answer us, what the government is going to do about it. The ministry may have a secretary of state, one or more, the minister may have three advisers, one or more assistants who will be in charge of a particular area, then the secretary of the ministry goes. There is a possibility of appointing the council of ministers and the law on state administration giving the possibility to form one or more authorities of the administration. Of course, when you form an authority of the administration goes choice of directors and assistants, technical service. There are authorities within the ministry, such as administrations, inspectorates, directorates, again with a governing structure that will further increase and increase. There are secretariats and shelters, like types of special organizations. There, too, we have directors and deputies. The district, which was also mentioned, is all part or organization of government and ministries. I'm talking about this because through the rationalization issue, we're going to see the announced depoliticalization, see what it's going to look like. We formally have an increase in the structure, an increase in the number of employees, and at the same time there are a number of people who will lose their jobs through rationalization. Namely, the document we received when we discussed the Law on Government and State Administration Reform, which is called "The State Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia", states data on the movement of the number of employees in the state administration and the latest data suggests that there are about 27,000 people in the state administration. It is a state of affairs in 2004, when the government was created on June 30th 2004. For the sake of comparisons, in order to understand the number of differences, and during which time period this number of employees increased, I must say that, according to official data, the number of ministry employees, special organisations and professional services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 31 December 2000 amounted to 8,715 people, meaning three and a few times less, and on 31 December 2003 11,567, which means an increase of 2,852 people. Now this data for June 30th 2004 says there are 27 thousand people. Of course, there is one explanation that the largest number, i.e. the increase in the number of employees, is the result of the removal of organs at the level of the SRJ, so a huge number of these people have been taken over. However, I must say that we have heard different data publicly from several ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia about what number of people are taken from, then federal level and who are now civil servants of the Republic of Serbia. It would be good to hear, if Mr. Balinovac was in a position to tell us about the movement of the number of employees, because we have come up with frantic data that over the past few years the number of people in the state authorities has increased multiple times. In this document, called "The Strategy for State Administration Reform in the Republic of Serbia", we find the answer as it happened. I am referring to this because this issue of increasing employees will be expressed when the rationalisation programme is implemented. This document is, in itself, very interesting. Well, it's a good thing that colleague Kristin quoted him, of course, in part two. But I will use it to mention in this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia several parts of this document that I find very interesting. In fact, one finding that in the mid-90s, due to the difficult economic situation, one number of professional people left the administration, but now we are coming to the essence of very accurate data that the previous government, the DOS government did not have a strategy for the development of state administration. The government was, in general, the government's manners – reform, democratic, pro-European, etc. Only on words, and in practice she acted completely different. It stands, in my opinion, for the assessment that this previous government did not have a strategy for reforming the state administration and that's one of the main reasons why the law was not passed before and why it didn't get into that story at all. The second, of course, is that human beings, that the previous government has received a huge number of people, as civil servants, above all, and only by party criteria, and that simply that number of people are in a large number of leading places, and will affect the fate of people who are now working in the state administration. So, those who became civil servants on a party basis now, as nonpartisan people or as civil servants, will decide on the fate of all people in the state administration. You will see after which, because the rules on the systematization of jobs, alongside ministers and secretaries, participates in its contents, and the directors in these lower structures are people who have come in the party dimension. I must point out that this DOS structure, which has been established since 2001, and on a one-party basis, has had a very negative relationship with the administration, will now shed crocodile tears as we have had the opportunity to hear from the former government's representatives, that they didn't know, that they couldn't, that they couldn't, etc. I think it's really degutant because they've shown in practice that they don't care at all, to say, the people of the state administration that they found. On the contrary, they were treated in a very incorrect manner. But it is estimated that the new Dossage Authority had a strong lack of confidence and animosity towards the overall found composition of the state administration. That's the assessment in this State Administration Reform Strategy. Also, the following assessment is correct – that the largest number of staff in the administration is now filled by young people, without previous experience, for the functioning of the state administration. In objective terms, these people are unable to professionally express what is called state administration reform. So someone doesn't get this story wrong and we're MPs, we're not against young people, on the contrary. But we believe that these people who have no experience, knowledge, enough knowledge of the work in the functioning of the state administration, they simply cannot be someone who determines the fate of people and who decides about their stay. There will be a rationalization of the state administration. That rationalization will be painful. I'm sure some people will be out of a job. The legal basis for this issue is found in the Regulation on the principles for the internal organisation and systematization of jobs in ministries, special organisations and government services. This Regulation lays down the principles for the internal organisation and the systematisation of jobs in ministries and special organisations and, most importantly, the adoption of a regulation on internal organisation and the systematisation of organ jobs. The Regulation shall be adopted by the Minister, or by the Secretary or Director, who manages a special organisation. Now, I stop at this point when I say – the director who manages a special organisation, because the fact is that in these lower places, which are formally not political, the established people DOS and they will only, by political criteria and propose the organisation of these services, and probably propose human resources. I have to point this out because the Socialists in 2001 were still simply the subject of chicing. Legally, it was not publicly unknown that the fact that was happening here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, before the judicial authorities did what was within their jurisdiction, came out for this pay phone and said publicly – they are guilty of you, you and you. This was not just about his colleagues from previous governments, ministers, but also about other government employees, because the political criterion was simply the only criterion applied to these people. We are fully convinced that people who have come on a political basis cannot be objective when deciding on the fate of other people. You will admit that the law on state administration, the law on civil servants, to say the principle of depolitisation is trying to implement. But the proposals for the rationalization of the state administration will be made by those who have come on the political line and hard for these people who are subject to rationalization. It's not just 27,000 people who are employed by state authorities, it's 231,000 people. This is the total number of people who are financed in different ways, who are beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The fact is, in this law and other documents that follow this question, there are some objective criteria, but there are other criteria that are not written, which will be applied. With regard to rationalisation, it is not a matter of years of work, or whether a person has a basis for retirement, whether staying at the Labour Markets Office will obtain conditions for retirement, professional training, etc. Because, you will admit, in the same conditions, when you have a person with a high level of expertise and 55 years of life or someone with 25-30 years of internship, it is more likely that a younger person will find a job on the labour market, not to mention women who will be in a particularly difficult situation. You know, our experiences show that, rarely after 55 years of life, a woman who gets fired is able to get a job again. So the question is how to determine the surplus staff in the state administration. It would be good to hear it, not just me, but the public of Serbia and all those who are employed, because it's a question that tangs a huge number of people. I don't want to, but the bad experience that we socialists have had makes me think it's going to be applicable to the invisible so-called. the criterion, past these known ones, and that such a criterion will simply break over the back of people who are designated as – or party members or its supporters. I just think we should get an answer to that question today. It is bad that no law has been passed with this law on employees of local self-government and autonomous province. I'll say something about that. Just one more sentence. When it comes to the rationalisation of the state administration, about the management of people, the law on civil servants contains a great deal of provisions that have been established that service managers have very high powers and have a practical impact on the fate of employees. For example, I will quote Article 89 where it says – A civil servant, other than a civil servant in office, can be permanently or temporarily transferred to another suitable position in the state authority without his consent, and.. temporarily transferred to a state authority. Take a look at the very detailed members of the law relating to the termination of employment or the responsibility of civil servants. There are some provisions that can be widely interpreted and probably over the back of employees. It is also mentioned that the rules on internal organisation and the systematization of jobs will be in line with the law and regulations and new jobs will be set up with the Regulation. But I note that the role of director is important in these affairs, because they have great authority. Finally, since the time foreseen for this debate is running out, I would like to mention the question of employees in local self-government. Namely, I would like to hear if there is any information in the Government of the Republic of Serbia about how many people are employed in local self-government, because we have about 161 or 162 municipalities without Kosovo and Metohija and if you take it as an average of 100 people, that is 16,000 employees, if 200 people are 32,000, and if 300 people are then 48,000 employees, and their rights, obligations, responsibilities, mode of work, the functioning of local self-government remains out of reach of the law. As I have seen from the reasoning of this law, it remains to apply the solutions of the Labour Law in the state bodies. I'm not bringing this up by accident. After what's-his-name. democratic changes have seen a huge number of people admitted to local self-government on a political basis, without any criteria. In fact, practice has shown that during the so-called time. democratic authorities, both at the level of state and local self-government, that people were first received by political resemblance, so some plans were made in the organisation and systematization of jobs, so that these people who were received on a political basis, in order to establish a formal legal framework for them to be legally employed. Their number is huge. A number of them are also funded by the Republic of Serbia. But I don't mention it because of this funding but because of the way they work, because this issue remains out of reach, and it is a pity that the law is not proposed, because it would also complete the system of relations both at the level of the state and at the level of local self-government and autonomous province, and there is also the city of Belgrade and others. I think it would be good for Mr Balinec to hear the answers to these few questions: the movement of the number of employees, in which the number has increased according to their data, because beyond what is mentioned, I think there are even more detailed information relating to the movement of employees, in which way the rationalisation of the state authorities will be done, whether there is one plan, whether there are time frames for reducing the number of employees. I think it would be good to hear it today, because we're going to move at the level of the general story, and this law will have very direct consequences on the fate of some people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18793	I thank Mr. Obradovic. Are any of the heads of Parliament's clubs or authorised representatives answering for a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to the order of MPs who have applied for a word in the joint principle debate on state administration laws and civil servants. The first to speak was the MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18794	Ladies and gentlemen, in the time foreseen for the debate of the MPs, just a comment on three members of the draft law on civil servants, as a confirmation of the argument given in our critical review of both draft laws. Article 5 The draft law on civil servants – The principles of the operation of civil servants, the second point is: The civil servant must not express and represent his political beliefs at work. When you say so, there's nothing to take or add. Each civil servant should be a professional professional and a civil servant has no place to represent political beliefs in the work. However, when you see that something should happen to a civil servant who, however, in breach of Article 5's second position, expressed his political beliefs in the work, then you see that the body manager decides whether the offence was committed and that, by a member defining the disciplinary procedure, the body manager himself can carry out the procedure himself and determine whether that breach of Article 5(2) was the case. He can, if he wants to start a disciplinary committee, but he doesn't have to. So you have one provision in this law that raises doubts. For any society that is changing is likely to have such a provision, if there were such laws in the UK or similar countries, it would not have clouded doubt, but we are doing the law in real time in Serbia in 2005. When are we gonna change it, we'll see?- I'm sorry. So one provision that reflects, and among many is similar in the law, is essentially a bad solution in the draft law on civil servants. Second illustration, Article 24 concerning – Preventing conflicts of interest. The attitude I'm going to quote from the bill illustrates the argument of two things. One is bad solutions, and the other is the language of the law. Paragraph 1 reads: "A civil servant shall not receive a gift in connection with the performance of his duties, except for a protocol or an appropriate gift of less value, nor any service or other benefit to himself or any other person". So you're putting in law that there are appropriate gifts for a civil servant. That, as illogical as it is to be in the law, so does what is common with us, (200 grams of coffee and something else to do with your job). But we make the law to root out such a custom. So we're passing the law so as not to involve appropriate gifts of less value. You, and now you have attitude one. The bill, offered to the Assembly for adoption, can a civil servant receive an appropriate gift of less value?- I'm sorry. I don't even want to imagine what everything can be explained that a convenient gift is less valuable. These are things we have to pay attention to if we really want to pass quality law. A particular problem is that civil servants are not subject to the Law of Conflict of Interest. So you know exactly by the Law of Conflict of Interest who has, who has no right, who does, what does, how does. In principle, we don't mind civil servants being covered by conflict of interest, on the contrary. It should be known precisely, if there is no moral law in us that determines the conflict of interest in public affairs and private interests that they too are covered, but they are not. They are not subject to the Law of Conflict of Interest. You can't put the provisions of the conflict of interest law here for people who are not in that law. If you want civil servants to put into the Law of Conflict of Interest, you will have our support of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, but so far do not bring confusion into a law that is happily passed and which, hopefully, will give good consequences in reality, in application in Serbia. Third example, Article 82. - It's grade time. and the evaluation exceptions are contained in the section: Assessment of civil servants. It is another thing that we agree in principle that objective criteria should be established for all those who do some work, that it is not dependent on appropriate gifts of less value or that it depends not on personal relationships, but on how objectively someone has done his job. We politicians and politicians have this objective criterion, these are elections. So once in four years, the most objective thing he can do, and it would be good and more often, for example, how much in half a year, so we politicians and politicians have one objective criterion at all levels of government and we call it evaluation. What happens next? And how we communicate with the people who voted for us -- that's another topic, but it says here that the civil servant is evaluated once in the calendar year, no later than the end of February of the current year for the previous year. And there's no dispute that grades should be. However, the second position of the same member of the 82nd said, "A state official who manages the state authorities is not evaluated." So, he's the one conducting the evaluation but he's not being evaluated, and now you see only through these three examples, and I can tell you that you have an organ manager who's assessing whether a civil servant stepped forward with his political beliefs contrary to Article 5, and then he's conducting a disciplinary procedure. It can form a commission, not necessarily, it assesses with: meets, does not satisfy, stands out, particularly stands out, but the manager, means the official who manages the state authorities does not evaluate. If only this existed from illustrations it would be enough to say – wait, it's not a good solution, there's legally one space for immeasurable abuses, whether the appropriate gifts or the position of the manager, let's solve it differently. However, it is obvious that there is no will to pass a law that is applicable in such a way as to benefit everyone. And for us politicians, for whom every civil servant is necessary support and assistance, and for citizens whose civil servants should be public service, efficient, rational, professional and, of course, even for this government that sends a clear message to state officials for whom, under the allegations, is now in charge. I can understand a lot of things, but making bad moves towards those you currently depend on and professionally and certainly, it's hard to understand, but it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18795	Thank you. The word has a representative of the government, Secretary of Law Zoran Balinovac, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18796	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've heard three critical remarks about the bill on civil servants, which revealed conspiracy, bad intentions, and who knows what else. Very briefly, as far as the first remark is concerned, that the civil servant is disciplinaryly responding if he is expressing and representing his political beliefs at work, there is one thing to say. First of all, I don't think we all argue that the workplace isn't a place to rally, give political speeches, etc. Secondly, the formulation and the diction, again and again, I repeatedly point out that we need to read the laws a little bit more carefully, that we need to see logical links, the meaning between, that it's not just the first interpretation, because I think that the law is not only made up of it, but it is to express and represent, therefore, a more permanent state. You know, if someone says one minute -- I really appreciate it here or that party, there's no breach of a working obligation. So, there's a breach of a work obligation when it's done more effectively. Otherwise, the French law on judges prohibits political talks in court and therefore the judges are being replaced. A disciplinary procedure can be initiated and led by an authority elder. If he decides not to lead him, the disciplinary commission can. But whoever conducts the disciplinary procedure and whoever gives any measure in this procedure, the interest of a civil servant, and of the one we fear, is protected because of the fact that he is happy to listen to someone's debate in the Assembly because he has the right to appeal. The right to appeal to the Board of Appeal is delaying the execution of the solution. So that right to appeal delays the execution of the solution. A manager can punish him as much as he wants. Nothing can happen to him until the Board of Appeal finally decides, and when the Board of Appeal finally decides he has the right to sue the court. Therefore, he cannot be removed from his organs by an executive. If the following provisions of the law had been read, it would have been perfectly clear that the working relationship would have ended with a final solution. Finality is a legal concept. Finally, the solution the Board of Appeal says is right, not what the manager says. So it's a completely wrong interpretation of the members. To that wrong interpretation, the right to tell you, I wouldn't have looked back if it hadn't been for these provisions that they didn't have a huge meaning. The same applies to the evaluation of a state official who manages political authorities. Look, look at the situation in the government. State officials operating the state authorities are the sole director of the Republic hydrometeorological institution, the secretary of legislation, etc. Well, who can judge them? It's just the government. And if we had written that they were evaluated by the Government, it would have left the political authority with the possibility of assessing their work, and we would have directly involved politics in the evaluation. There are simply situations in the legal order where you cannot find a rational solution. And, therefore, all the rules apply to them as well as to other civil servants. A disciplinary procedure can be initiated. They can be disciplined. They can lose their jobs, their jobs, if they're disciplined and, of course, after five years of office, they can't be re-appointed if they've worked badly. So the evaluation here, with them, is translated simply for another way simply because it would be politically prescribed by law, because there is no one other than the political authority to evaluate them, because they operate the state authorities. And, in the end, something about conflict of interest. I'll be very simple. There is a Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the performance of public functions, which says the following, which was adopted by the National Assembly in this meeting – the official must not receive a gift in connection with the performance of his public office from a protocol or appropriate gift whose value does not exceed half the amount of average monthly earnings in Serbia, but also if in money or securities of value a person cannot receive a gift, etc. It's a provision of the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. That provision has been taken over by this law. If we were not to allow officers corruption, if we wanted to extend the Law to prevent conflicts of interest to civil servants, we could have done it in three ways. The first way is offered, by emergency procedure, to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and to involve civil servants in it. We wouldn't get much, because in the Civil Service Act, we have practically a full codification of their relationship, and it's just more beautiful, more transparent, and more appropriate that there's everything about civil servants in one law, and not scattered by 10 or 15 laws, as some think it should be. So this was the first option, to change the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, so that, in addition to: a public official, we add what is known, i.e. – civil servants, etc. We didn't do it. Another possibility was that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest overwrite all these provisions, so that we can explain what is considered a gift, what is the obligation of an officer in the offer or promise of a gift that cannot be received, what should be done if he has established a public service and simply to do something that Friedrich the Great, Prussian King himself has done in time. Friedrich the Great gave the order to do the law but to be very pedantic. The law had 17,000 parameters and was called PREUSSISHEN LandrechTS (Prussian Earth Code), 17,000 paragraphs, so much he wrote everything. He even predicted how many times a mother must breast-feed a child a day, under which conditions cohabitation can be refused. the performance of marital duties. Now, probably we should've done that in order to make it clear to someone, so it's obvious that we're being suggested here that we should've applied that skill too. However, if you say – to determine the circles of connected persons and to receive gifts, regulations will apply which regulate the prevention of conflicts of interest in public functions, so it is clear to everyone that they will look at these three - four members of the law and you are elegant, something called the referring norm right, solve the problem. Instead of being Barbaros or someone else who will write 50, 60 and 70 members about something there is no need or that you will bring disorder and unrest into the legal system. You just did it. There's something else about conflict of interest. There's something that's missed by the watchful eyes of critics. Those who today, under the Law of Conflict of Interest, are called officials, which are ministerial assistants, ministry secretaries, deputy ministers, etc. A large number of them will become state officials in their command post. Hence, the law on civil servants separated their position and said that all provisions of the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest apply, saying it very clearly in one member. Why? When we did this law, we were in front of a dilemma, which, aboutly, could be very easy to describe in the following words: should we continue to apply the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to those who are officials today, tomorrow will be the executive officers, or not? Of course you should have. Well, we want to contain corruption. The purpose of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is to introduce a moral law within us, but also to take some other measures. Therefore, all the provisions of the law to prevent conflicts of interest were directly extended to all state officials who are in a leading position, simply because these provisions apply to them today. Well, should we have let them not apply to them tomorrow? You shouldn't have. Therefore, personally, and I am speaking now to the MPs and to the public, I see no problem with the provisions relating to preventing conflicts of interest. And simply, the law uses something that technique was discovered in Roman law thousands of years ago, so on. Indicating norms, nothing new is invented. It is achieved and obtained in the rationality of the legal text, so that it is not too long, too widespread, too described. The duty of the legislator is, above all, to order, and only in another plan to teach. So much for those concerns.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18797	Replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18798	Ladies and gentlemen, except that Secretary Balinovac completely misunderstood what I was saying, I request the chairman to send a stenogram with a discussion of Secretary Balinovac, which concerns a conflict of interest, with a letter from the Republic Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and to the Legislative Committee of the Republic of Serbia, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, the MP Milos Aligrudic. So, I repeat. I demand that a stenogram be sent with what Mr Balinovac has claimed to apply the Law on Conflict of Interest, with a request for guidance for the application of the Republic Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18799	I thank Mrs. Comic. Since the stenogram is available to any MP, anyone interested in the MPs can deliver it to whoever they want. The President of the Assembly or the Bureau of the Assembly to deliver a stenogram with a discussion of anyone here, that is neither common nor written anywhere in the Rules of Procedure. Of course, every MP has a stenogram from the session and can deliver it to whoever they want. It's a public document. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18800	As for my interpretation of the law on civil servants, which concerns the prevention of conflicts of interest, I now declare before all MPs and stenograms that I am staying entirely with him. As far as the instructions, you know, Zoran Balinovac, as the Republic Secretary of Law, has no claim to give instructions to the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest. The Republic Committee for the Resolution of Conflicts of Interest are graduates, whose part was elected by the Supreme Court, part of the Bar Association, and part of the National Assembly, and they will interpret this law themselves and find the best way to interpret it or not. As for my interpretation, of course, I'm staying with him and I'm saying it for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18801	Replica, MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18802	My proposal in the previous replica, due to the fact that Secretary Balinovac either won't understand or can't understand, which is legitimate in the congregations, every time in relation to the MPs and the executive authority, I didn't even think that Secretary Balinovac should do the instructions. Once again, I request the chairperson, i.e. the President of the National Assembly, to make a stenogram of what Secretary Balinovac said on the application of the Law on Conflict of Interest and with a request for guidance from the Republic Committee to resolve conflicts of interest, to deliver to the Republic of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and to deliver the same stenogram to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since it's obvious that neither the secretary nor the associate understand why I'm asking for it, because, if it's true what you're saying, then all the civil servants in the same obligation that we were covered by the Law of Conflict of Interest are to file claims on the property, to file all those statements and certificates that are normally held by people who are in their position, duties defined by the Law of Conflict of Interest. The word "public" is dangerous and it's amazing how easy things are sometimes said without bad intentions or bad thoughts, but they're said. So, if the secretary, as a representative of the government, here has said that this law addresses the Law of Conflict of Interest, then he addresses the Law of Conflict of Interest. Then, of course, on the basis of the stenogram and on the basis of the instructions that I, on the basis of that stenogram, will have to ask the Republic Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, all civil servants will have to make property applications and to address the Republic Committee for Conflict of Interest. I don't have a valuable attitude about it. I can tell you in person, I would like to, and I say it again, to create an atmosphere of value systems in society, that we all do our jobs and that we clearly know how to separate both the legal norm and what the system is, what it is, public work, and what is private interest. As a changing society, we haven't built it yet. My wish is that even civil servants are not in a position to be in conflict of interest, but with the same motive that I want to build a value system, I also want to follow and respect a publicly spoken word. The ease with which you sometimes pronounce something you don't think is human and natural. I therefore immediately ask that a stenogram be addressed to the Committee by Secretary Balinovac, to ask the Committee for instructions on how to apply the provisions interpreted here by Secretary Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18803	Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18804	Just so we understand each other's instructions, etc. The proposal for a law on civil servants, in Article 24, states: "The provisions governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions apply to the establishment of a circle of connected persons and to the reception of gifts." Clearly, it can't be clearer. It's not said anywhere that civil servants have an obligation to report property. Article 30 states: "The law and other regulations governing the prevention of conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions apply to civil servants." State officials will be the ones who are now ministerial assistants, who have already had to report property. So here, a legal regime, provided for by the Law of Conflict of Interest, is only transposing itself, continues to be one category of people changing their legal status and position. For God's sake, is that so hard to understand, and is it a stenogram, etc? Therefore, the obligation to register assets is subject only to civil servants who are in office, and they are when it comes to government and listed in Article 33, so I will now read that member, these are: assistant ministers, secretaries of the ministry, directors and authorities of the ministry, assistant directors and bodies, directors of a special organisation, deputy directors and assistant directors of a special organisation, directors of government services, etc. They're already reporting property. It is a provision that says – if your status changes from functionors to civil servant, and at the executive position you continue to be subject to public control so as not to be corrupt. It just takes two or three provisions to read, and then it's all clear. All it takes is a few things to bring into a logical relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18805	The word is by MP Anita Beretic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18806	Mr. Chairman, there's a very big difference between being funny and being funny. Take care of it. In that case, you have violated several provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Of course, the provisions concerning addressing the MPs of the people, and this also applies to the promoter, because all participants in the session, in the debate, are subject and obliged to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and are obliged to treat each other with respect. We have been here since this morning in one correct debate in the mutual opposition of arguments, but it does not allow us, either side, and at least, I dare say to the least, that both nervously and cynically treat any MP from any MP's group. It's a special weight when it's done by the chairman. Therefore, I demand that the chairman put my remarks to the vote on the day of the vote that he was violated and injured by Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the handling of the responsibilities of the President of the National Assembly, who is not here at the moment, but the same responsibilities in his absence as I know the Rules of Procedure now have you, so you are obliged to comply with the Rules of Procedure and act. Also, I'm calling for a violation of Article 226. A Rules of Procedure which says, "The National MP has the right to request information and explanations from the President of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, ministers and officials in other republican bodies and organisations, on issues from the rights and duties of these officials, from the authority of the authorities on which they are headed, which he needs to exercise the functions of the MP." I think that she was fully in line with the rights of MP Mrs. Comic, for a long time, to virtually bridge the possible gap in mutual misunderstanding and persistently try to discuss the law and bring down the level of argument rather than the amount of mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18807	A few things. I tried to understand MP Anita Beretic's request to be injured by the Rules of Procedure, but I did not understand, because she was well quoted by Article 226 that the MP has the right to ask for an explanation and notice from the president of the Assembly, the chairman of the board, etc., the officials of other bodies, which I do not dispute. I just told Mrs. Comic that she can get a stenogram about the assembly session on what any MPs said, and therefore also a representative of the government, and that with that stenogram she can behave according to her demands and wishes however she wants. Whether he's going to deliver a limit, whether he's going to publish it to the public, whether he's going to use it differently in any way, that's her right as a MP. But nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that the President of the Assembly or the Chairman of the Assembly has an obligation to send at the request of the MPs a stenogram of someone who discusses here in the National Assembly, even if he is a representative of the authorities, of the other body and of the other body chosen by the National Assembly. Therefore, do not try to abuse the Rules of Procedure. You have tried here by explaining the Rules of Procedure to abuse what does not appear in the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Beretic. Those are facts, and I will continue to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and give my word to whoever asks. It is now up to MP Živojin Stefanovic, and everyone who wants to be able, as they know, to use the record and the stenogram from the assembly session and to use it in whatever way they want to, to read it publicly, to deliver it to other services and explain it on TV. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18808	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Zarko Obradovic expressed the position of our parliamentary group, and I will hold that position normally, but since I am here a rare MP, a civil servant, a tenant, and I do not know what I will be by new regulations, from the age of 35, I have been a state official, of which two and a half years have been out of business because of the politicization of the authorities of the state administration. After that, I had to fight at the local level to become a councilman, get into the local government, and get my job back at this late age. Since I'm so... (A voice from the O.R.: Were you in jail? I haven't gotten there yet, but someone's gonna get there before I do. Since I've spent so much time and learned something in the administration, I don't see many new things in relation to the existing law. It was simply to be changed, perhaps due to the passage of time, in 1992 it was long ago, but this reason, which states that, that the old Law would be expunged by the fact that the state administration was primarily an executive of the state government, and that it would be given a social function. Looking at the provisions, this provision of the law, I don't see that function as social. I am now seeing a more dominant function of public administration through administrative acts, decision-making on the basis of rights and obligations, and thus a force for the exercise of rights or obligations. Since depoliticisation in new regulations, these two laws will be nothing, because this number of secretaries, assistants, and even state secretaries, in the way they are named, appointed or elected, or based on whom they are based, it will be done again by political parties; given that ministers represent political parties, and they are appointed and proposed, the administration will again be much politicised rather than in the one-party system that I was in, in which I spent a good part of the time as a state official. The provisions of the law on state administration from Articles 29 to 34 refer to bodies within the ministry. They say they are formed in ministries where a particular area of ministry operations requires a higher degree of independence and independence in work. I've had the opportunity to experience directly how these very organs work within the ministry. That's why I'm at one of the previous sessions, and because I'm trying to prove that these organs are too independent, that the ministry or ministers have very little influence on them, I simply press red as a sign of protest to awaken the conscience of some who need to deal with these organs and organizations. Namely, it's about one administration and one directorate. I have no right to speak of others because I have not come across such and similar experiences. It's their behavior that brings me back to the time when the communists talked about the centers of alienated power. They're the real centres of alienated power. By organising the authorities of the state administration and our laws, we have given them such powers to be independent, to have the exclusive state, or resources of this state. First of all, it's about the Water Directorate. Just by the water management of the municipalities where I live and work last year, it was damaged by 100 million dinars. I don't know whose account it's affecting because he didn't get a favored Italian candidate in the tender. When all this was over, it would be more expensive for 13m euros, which is for the poor municipality and too much money. So much money is also great for the state of Serbia. The Directorate found support in the Public Procurement Administration, which 53 days did not decide on the general rights of the tender, but only after that, when they saw that the favoured competitor had not received the job, on December 31st made a decision to cancel the tender and thus freed the state of Serbia to pay the company "Vovod" for the 100 million dinars as a contribution to the construction of the water system "Barje" that has been built for 20 years. To be even more independent and independent of the Public Procurement Administration in the Public Procurement Act, no one can influence that administration, you are not entitled to judicial protection, because the solution of the Public Procurement Authority is finally allowed and judicial protection is not allowed. I therefore believe that the provisions of Articles 29 to 34 need to be reorganised and reduced by unlimited powers. They correspond to the government or the Assembly through ministers, and the minister can have very little influence in the way they are organised, as the director brings instructions, regulations, proposes his associates, assistant directors and other officials in place. I have vague provisions in terms of advisors, position workers, since we advocate that a number of young people enter state authorities. It takes at least a working experience from five to nine years. If we know that everyone finishes their studies about 30 years after the men's army and they can only be in those positions in their 40s. Also, in light of the reasons for the law's adoption, it was said that decentralisation of the state administration would be carried out and that it would be justified for the administrative district to be taken. There is nothing new in the implementation of the district since that regulation brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 1992. I've been in charge of one of the districts for seven years. So what was written in the regulation at the time, now the Law has only repeated itself. There's no decentralisation here. There and then and now the State Departments are detaching their jobs, making departments in the districts, and the county doesn't have its original organs. The joint service was a mailbox, and now it is, the Serbian government. All they ask for is responsibility, and no rights have been given to the work of the detached parts of the ministry. Only a disciplinary procedure can be initiated, but it is of no value to him, as it is all decided by the minister in Belgrade. The citizens of the field are experiencing about as much as that of Nusic's chief that he can do anything. But there's nothing he can do. To regulate and improve the status of the district's chief, the county's council is envisaged. The county council consists of the presidents of municipalities, but they should only discuss or provide guidelines and instructions to the Ministry of Local Self-Government or to the Resort Ministry for the implementation of the administrative procedure. At least the presidents of the municipalities can do that. If he already needs advice, then he should have a different role, that he has a steering role that can be binding, but that instead of the president of the municipalities being local self-government elders, or you have municipalities that have only one organ and one man as an elder of the organ, and he is more interested, he can influence the work of the Authority more closely. When it comes to the law on civil servants, I also don't see any important newspapers. The position, the working-law relationship and the overall status of civil servants, officials or deputies, however you will, was approximately the same in the old law. In my opinion, these are people who have been treated as second-class citizens. Many rights have been denied by current and current law. A local self-government worker cannot be a committee member in local self-government, but in the current Law, even in this new one, there may be an abuse, as happened in 2001 when an employee of the Ministry of the Interior, who was a republican official, was a committee member in the local parliament. And, in order for then's rule to be given to the majority of Minister Batic, he orders to resign as a councilman or he will be fired at the ministry. He didn't have any work protection, no court, and he had to give up on the councilman. That's when his committee group stayed in the minority. Under the law of that time, we local self-government workers last received the right to regress and the right to a warm meal. Under this law, a civil servant cannot be a member of the managing authority of the Management Board. If he gets the minister's consent, he may be, but he can't receive any compensation. Any other employee can be. A civil servant can't start a company, and every other employee can. Therefore, these are the rights that are forbidden to this worker. The only thing for him to be safe, but more in another system that wasn't politicized, was the continuity of the workplace and nothing else, but now he won't be guaranteed it either. I therefore believe that this law does not significantly change the position of staff in the administration, while at the same time the State Administration Act does not significantly change the status and position of the state administration authority. I believe that it can be done much better if it is already wanted to change and that these provisions from Article 29 to Article 34 should ultimately define the status of the body as part of the ministry. As it is done, they are out of control and judicial, government control, assembly control, and they have state resources at their disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18809	The People's Messenger Vladimir Homan has the word, and then the Messenger of the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18810	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, under the current State Administration Act of the Ministry, authorities are busy with operational affairs, and special organisations can, under the applicable law, do administrative work, so functionally they do not differ greatly from the ministries, which can cause and cause various confusions. Now this proposal for a state administration law will change and make it possible to work more efficiently for all of these bodies. In fact, the exercise of administrative action should not exclusively serve the exercise of state authority, as it has been so far, but involves public services and should contribute to the general development of society, as well as to its social function. This is what this proposal of the State Administration Act allows. State administration executives will no longer have status and will be officials, but professional and professional performers of state functions and civil servants. This is because, of course, this law continues, and this is determined by Article 7. – as the principle of state administration's work, the principle of legality is affirmed, but the principle of compliance with the rules of profession is introduced, impartial and politically neutral, as shown in Article 8. It is also an important provision of Article 14 in paragraph 3 where it is explicitly said that, for taking actions that reach into personal freedom, security and physical integrity of a person, a state body must have a basis in law. This is a major advance, and it is already clear from this that the new law on the state administration is depoliticalising the state administration, creating a professional and responsible state administration in which the performers of these duties will, without the burden of day-to-day political developments and their own personal dependence on the same activities of the state government from its highest to lowest level. Most importantly, conditions are being created for the rationalization of the state-government apparatus. The previous governments have been constantly increasing the number of employees in the state administration at all levels, and the most recent example, we can only remember how many previous governments had vice presidents. The government did not do so, but it does and will do exactly the opposite, the rationalisation of the state administration, because it is financed by the money of all citizens of this country. The only criterion in this process will be professionalism and expertise in work. This law provides basic principles on the work of the state administration, and the draft law on civil servants sets out these principles. I'd like to mention, on this occasion, only a few of the most important newspapers. The 31st official posts shall also be divided into the posts of the executive posts. At the post, I would like to point out the position of Assistant Minister, Secretary of the Ministry, Director of the Office or his assistant, Director of Special Organizations, their Deputy, Director of Government Services, etc. Executing jobs are all non-positional. They are classified according to the titles depending on the complexity of businesses, the necessary knowledge, etc. I'd like to point out the evaluation and promotion of civil servants in the service, because there's a lot of newspapers here, too. It seems to me that the most important thing, in order for a civil servant to make progress, must be twice as much as possible to get the grade – it is especially said, or even four times – is said, and only in case he progresses, if he meets that criterion that there is a job opening and that he meets the conditions for work. In this regard, it is important to establish a high-level official council that prescribes all professional training, knowledge and skills to be evaluated in the electoral process. He's got nine council members and he's independent in his work. Article 141 provides for appeal committees to decide on complaints from civil servants on solutions to decide on their rights and duties and complaints from participants in the internal and public competition. Here it should be noted, given that this is significant progress, the very fact that future civil servants will become exclusively through competition – internal and public competition. If we sum up all of this, it can be said that both of these laws clearly shape and edit the work of the state administration and make great progress in professionalising the state apparatus and therefore the G17 plus will vote for them. In the end, I would like to draw attention to the legislator of these laws on the amendment of fellow Members Mark Krstin to Article 85(3). The State Administration Act. In fact, to consider whether it is really enough for the management of the administrative procedure and for a solution to the administrative procedure for a civil servant to have at least, it is said, higher school equipment. Let us remind ourselves that, in various cases, very complicated procedures and decisions affecting the right of property of natural and legal persons and to remind ourselves that in a court of law, highly qualified persons decide, and this solution is far from what we are, even though we are in the 21st century. Finally, let me conclude, the critics of these legal proposals, and there are, should they, before they start criticizing, think, why, when they have such brilliant ideas, did they not turn the same into a legal proposal while they had, in previous councils, the majority of them, voted these laws and started to reorganise, systematization, professionalisation and rationalization of state administration? This government doesn't talk about it, this government does. Therefore, once again, G17 plus will vote in favour of these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18811	Thank you. The word of the people is the Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, and let Goran Rakovac be prepared. Here you go, Mrs. Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18812	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is, I think, the third time that we have draft laws on state administration and government officials on the agenda on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The State Administration Act was already here in one serious debate. Mr. Loncar, the minister, was the representative of the proposal. We were arguing, I think, in some night session. We made a series of objections to the government's proposal for a law on state administration. At the time, it seemed that Minister Loncar had an understanding and did something that was not common, so in a further discussion, he withdrew the government's proposal from the procedure, with an explanation that he realized that the MPs really had a lot of objections, that he and the government would consider these objections and that one would appear in front of this parliament, with remarks that had been made, the legal text. I suppose that's why Mr. Lonchar is not here today, that he sent Mr. Balinovac, who was not at the time involved in Parliament's work. But, you see, we mostly have the exact same text with the one that we've criticised so much and to which we've made all those remarks. So today, like the other colleagues who spoke, I'll probably be in a position to say something I've already said about this bill. We MPs of the SRS have then and now invested a large number of amendments with the intention of helping the Government to actually come to a text that would not be for single use, that would be applicable and that would be a serious law, just as matter is required to regulate this law. I'm going to go over some of the most interesting remarks the SRS has on both of these laws. It's in Article 3. The proposal for a law on state administration, paragraph 1, states that the work of the government authorities is subject to the supervision of the government, and then and now, we have explained, and we are now going to propose to the Government that this first position should be heard – the control of the work of the government's authorities is carried out by the government. You were Mr. Balinovac in a debate with his colleague, Comic, reading here a provision of the Constitution that says exactly what I'm saying right now. Why isn't that in the bill, I don't know, I guess you'll tell us that, too? Next, we have an objection to Article 9. The bill, which says the authorities of the state administration are obliged to allow the parties to quickly and effectively exercise their rights and legal interests. A member of the SRS is, according to the SRS, very suitable for abuse. We think it should stand here – that the authorities of the state administration are obliged to donate, act in accordance with the law, then it is something clear and concrete. A moment ago, when I was giving you a comment from the bench, I said this bill was full of, as we lawyers say, a hole in the law. Indeed, by applying this law, whoever applies it will be in a situation that and how it abuses unsettled, inaccurate provisions of this bill. In Article 14, you said that state administration authorities enforce laws, other regulations and general acts of the National Assembly and Government by laying down regulations, resolving administrative matters, keeping records, issuing public documents and taking administrative actions, or executive jobs. You did not foresee that the authorities of the State Administration are conducting inspection controls, and you will agree that this is one of the main tasks of the Authority of the State Administration and that it is necessary to keep it contained in this law. In Articles 25, 26 and several further members, you have something that absolutely disproves your claim that this law means depoliting the authorities of the state administration. In Article 25, you predicted that the assistant minister would appoint the government for five years on a proposal from the minister, under a law governing the position of civil servants. In several places you have – according to the law governing the position of civil servants. You, as a lawyer, should know that something like this should not have been in this law, since the law on civil servants is still at the stage of the proposal, it has not yet begun the debate on it, let alone that it has been adopted, so that it has entered into force. You know, only when the law comes into force can you align some other law with that, not to align one proposal with another proposal. And you yourself know how you stand with the congregation majority and where you are guaranteed that these two, who have come to you today, will vote for this very law. So you should never have put this in this bill. But something else is interesting here. Assistant ministers, secretaries of the ministry, some kind of advisor you have, some kind of advice, what you didn't predict, you all predicted to be elected for five years. What does that mean? The government lasts four years, and these officials, government secretaries, advisors, ministerial assistants, lasts five years. What we Serbian radicals expect, since you know that we, as I often say, in addition to what is seen in the ranks, we read among the ranks. When this law enters into force, you can carry out, in accordance with this law, the re-election of ministerial assistants, secretaries and all of them with a lifetime of five years at their posts. Your government has two, three months left. What it means is that tomorrow as minister after the next election, I will have the DSS, G17, SPS, New Serbia, parties now in power, assistant ministers, ministry secretary and various advisers. And you call it the depoliticalization of the government's authority. Mr. Balinovac, we're serious people, we're seriously doing our job, and don't degrade us this way. We have suggested that you delete these special advisors, ministers' advisors, ministers' councils, etc. And now I don't have time to talk about all these suggestions in detail, but in the discussion of the details we're going to say everything we actually said that night. We will repeat this even more times, because it is obvious that you need it to take the government seriously to take the objections of the MPs. Furthermore, in Articles 43 and 44, you are talking about the internal arrangement of the authorities of the state administration, the act on internal planning and the systematization of jobs. You didn't predict a systematization act being published in the Official Messenger, which we don't think is good. If the authorities of local self-government have to publish their systems, I don't know why you didn't leave that possibility at this level. Of course, it is clear that these are more interesting jobs and that this should remain as secret as possible and why you should now inform the public about how many of these various advisors, ministers, etc. You have provided in Article 47 that the supervision of work consists of supervision of the legality of work and supervision of the integrity of the work of the authorities and of the state administration and of public authorities in carrying out entrusted tasks of the state administration. If you wrote this, I bet you don't understand what you meant by this sentence. But in any case, since it's so pointless, we've suggested that this attitude be erased, especially since this surveillance has no sanctions whatsoever. Which means you're monitoring something if there's no sanctions, if you can establish any irregularities during surveillance. So, totally insane and pointless. We also have a lot of objections to this law, but given the limited time for our parliamentary group and my colleagues' wish to all participate, or a lot of them, in working on these proposals, I'll just say a few more sentences about the civil servants' law. In Article 2, we have objections, in Article 10(6), etc. In article 6, you say the civil servant is responsible for the legality, expertise and effectiveness of his work. What does that efficiency mean to you? Who's going to grade that? You've really introduced some "new speech" into both of these bill proposals and it's necessary to correct this if you want us to have laws in the spirit of our judicial system. We thought it would be good if instead of "effectiveness" you said "good times," because it really makes sense under the laws that set certain deadlines. All civil servants are equal, you say in Article 10 when deciding to advance and reward and achieve their legal protection. It would have been good if you'd thought of civil servants here since you started working. So their labour rights and work-based rights, not just promotion, rewarding, because when you say this, it's clear that you're referring to certain officials, of course to certain party activists. You are not completely this Article 11 that speaks of working conditions, where you forgot to write that a civil servant has the right to working conditions that will not endanger his life, so on what you wrote, health etc. I guess it's too much to protect your life. In Article 14, a civil servant shall have the right to be a member of the union and of the professional association and of their management bodies. If you really didn't mean anything that could be interpreted from this article, then this member is very dangerous to you. So if you and the government didn't have any ultimate intentions, then this member is dangerous to you, because if it stays like you wrote it, there's a great chance that it can infiltrate various NGOs into the state sectors. That is why you should change this article a little bit, that is, accept our amendment and see how it should be regulated. You are also interested in these 18, 19, 20 members, who are talking about the transfer of employees to the state administration. You're saying that a civil servant is required to accept a job in the same or other state body to which, under the provisions of this law, he has been permanently or temporarily transferred. Mr. Balinovac, the government can't play civil servants like this. There must be an obligation for a civil servant to give his consent, especially when it comes to moving to a job in another state body. As part of one organ, it's okay for the manager to move, but to be in another body, and without consent, there's no security for a civil servant and absolutely depends on his superior, and yet that's what I said at the beginning, opening up the possibility of various abuses. You have indetermination and indeterminateness in Article 21 of Article 24, but because of a little time, I cannot deal with this problem in detail. But you have a problem with disciplinary responsibility. You did not foresee the obligation of a disciplinary commission to exist, and we think there should be a disciplinary commission, which would carry out the procedure, to propose a measure to the executive. Of course, he would be the one to give the measure, but why do you put so much responsibility on his neck, that he must also know how to conduct the procedure, to make statements, etc., and on the other hand, you open up a great opportunity for him to do what he thinks and how he thinks of it. You should explain to us Article 160 paragraph 1 point 6). We're talking about data that's being recorded in central personnel records. Point 6) says, among other things, that the "date of completion of the working century" is to be entered. I don't know if you know Mr. Balinovac, what this term means, given that the Pension Insurance Act no longer has all the characteristics of the completed working century, and you'd have to explain what you're going to say, what you're thinking, so there wouldn't be any confusion in the application and there wouldn't be any problem with the employees that this member of the law applies to. It is also not logical what is provided for in Article 3(1) where you say, "The rights and duties of the tenant are decided by the manager or the civil servant" etc. Well, you as a lawyer, Mr. Balinovac, were not allowed to do this, and especially as secretary of the Legislative Secretariat, to miss getting to the MPs. You can't change your work contract with a solution. Here you had to predict the work contract annex, because the solution is one category, and the contract is another category entirely. So, since my colleagues warn me, I've really taken too much time, I'll just say so much that the MPs of the SRS won't vote for this law. We've talked about why. We'll talk today. And in the discussion of details, although I am convinced that, since it is not Minister Loncar here right now, you, Mr. Balinovac, will accept some amendments, since you have predicted yourself a little longer function, five years and you are not tied to the government, so you have no fear of voting for our amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18813	Thank you. The People's Messenger Goran Rakovac has the word, and Bosko Ristic will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18814	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the government, are here today two more than important laws, which, together with the Government Act, which we received a few months ago, need to be based on a new, modern way, the offices of the state administration, that part of the government, an executive power that is more than necessary for the normal functioning of the state. Speaking of this law, the predecessors generally abstained on several provisions that I really don't think are causing controversy, given that they are more than clear and necessary in this law. I mean, in order not to go straight into what is controversial and what has caused certain different attitudes here, I think there's something to say first of all about the reasons for passing such a law. In fact, if we want the state administration, the modern state, primarily to represent the service of citizens and not to come from the point of view of government, then this law really has one step towards existing solutions. A series of new rules, a series of new principles, contained in this law, are precisely enabling that the future state administration, which will be organised under this law, will be much more of the service of citizens, and not the administration in the classical sense, as we had in some previous systems, where the state administration and the executive authority participated primarily as an instrument of government. In my presentation, I would stick to the basic provisions, in particular Article 3, which determines the supervision of the authorities of the state administration and on external supervision, for the simple reason that this provision and this member of the law have already caused certain controversy in this assembly, but also in relation to the principles, since we also have this intensities of the legislator to turn the administration into a service of citizens. The start of the law, i.e. Article 1 defines the state administration, determines its position and composition and, of course, it is done in the way and essentially the way it is, and that is that it is part of the executive authority of the Republic of Serbia, which performs administrative tasks. In the second subparagraph, the State Administration shall divide the i.e. determines what it is and these are: firstly, the ministries; secondly, the administration bodies of the ministries; and, under three, special organisations. These three segments are the authorities of the state administration. The supervision of the authorities of the state administration is regulated by a member who has caused certain controversy. And I really don't have a lot of logical explanations as to why these poles happened, because this member is a fact-finding constitutional provisions that had to be found in this law, in order to clearly define who, in what way, performs so-called. external control of the work of the Authority. I wouldn't talk about that internal surveillance that the authorities of the administration are doing over each other, higher than the lower one, but it's really more than necessary in the basic provisions, so at the beginning of the law, we have it that the work of the government's authority, as a systemic part of the executive government, is normally subject to government supervision. And, it's perfectly normal, given the constitutional provisions quoted here by Mr Balinovac, that it's legal oversight, so that only the reasoning of this law and the explanation given in the explanation should not be in any way controversial. The second body in the section of government, the legislative body, the National Assembly, the very fact that it controls the government, which is part of the executive government, and whose parts and bodies of the administration, are automatically overseeing, through the supervision of certain ministries, government members and the government itself, automatically performs and oversees the work of the authorities of the state administration, and it is quite logical and normal that it is political surveillance. Finally, something that is the fluid of modern law, something that lawyers and mostly the opposition have been fighting over for the last 300-400 years, is that there is, after all, judicial oversight, that for each individual act brought by the state authorities, in this case, the state administration, there is judicial protection. It is perfectly normal for administrative disputes and courts to oversee the legality of individual acts of the authorities of the state administration which have been adopted in administrative proceedings, i.e. administrative matters. So this Article 3. The bill is more than clear, written unequivocally clear and more than necessary, that it is in this place, and I really don't think there should be any more controversy. The law in Article 4 introduces the expression of public authority holders. Again, it is quite normal and logical, because it is more than clear and there is a rule in the current regulations that certain public administration jobs, not all but individuals, can be trusted by law, in this case autonomous provinces, municipalities, cities, the City of Belgrade, public enterprises, public agencies, institutions or other organisations. It's not about the state giving up these jobs. On the contrary, for the sake of more efficient achievement and work, making certain decisions on these matters, it is normal in the modern state, and we have had such solutions in the current regulations, and the urgency is that to a greater extent it is done in the future, it is normal for certain jobs to be entrusted to these institutions. Finally - responsibility for damages, given that we have a public authority holder responsible for damages, as provided for in Article 5. – it is designed so that, if not legally or incorrectly, the authorities of the state administration cause damage to natural and legal persons, of course, the Republic of Serbia is responsible, because it is the state administration. And if the damage occurs in the business done by public authorities and they are also responsible for the damage they are doing in their work. As regards basic principles, therefore, the principles of legality, which implies that the state administration must work within the framework of the Constitution, the laws, and other general acts and other regulations, and the principle of legality results in the principle of their independence, their independence in work. The principle of expertise, impartiality and political neutrality are mostly in the laws that treat this matter, with the fact that, in my opinion, there is a particular emphasis on the principle of political neutrality, which in some earlier regulations that regulated this matter, was not. It implies that state administration authorities must be impartially and politically completely neutral in enabling every citizen to enjoy equal legal protection in the exercise of their rights, obligations and legal interests. The principle of effectiveness and proportionality may be connected and discussed together. State administration authorities are also under the obligation to use those funds that are most favourable to the party, in terms of efficiency that does not always mean timeliness itself, but can mean other things in achieving the real interest of citizens. In the end, the principle of public work. It's also one of the constitutional principles. The authorities of the state administration are obliged to give public insight into their work, according to a law governing free access to information of public importance. Given the importance of this principle, the legislator has also devoted a special head to this principle, I think it is Head IX – the public's work and relations with citizens. The principle of the public, in itself, even though it was contained in earlier regulations, this time in this law implies a series of obligations that the authorities of the state administration have, not only according to the means of public information, but, above all, to the public and to the citizens. So, their work, on the one hand, must be fully open and accessible to the public, but on the other hand, we also have certain provisions that provide for a way in which citizens who are not satisfied with the work of the authorities of the state administration to make their remarks and in some way seek a review of decisions, the effectiveness of the work of the state administration. First of all, we have a obligation provided for in Article 77 that the authorities of the state administration must inform the public of their work, through means of public information or in another appropriate way, and the obligation of employees in the authority of the state administration, who prepare the information, their responsibility for the accuracy and timing of the information they provide with public information. He's also detained, which I think is a good solution, the Institute of Public Discussion in law-making. This allows the public to do so. The public debate is mandatory, under Article 78 of the Law, in the preparation of a law that significantly changes the legal regime in one area or which regulates issues of particular interest to the public. Also, we have the Institute of Administrative Days, something we haven't had so far. Therefore, the authorities of the state administration can carry out certain tasks both outside their headquarters and outside the headquarters of their district unit, in the so-called so-called “. ” administrative days, but due to the importance of the job and the very physical transfer of the place where the administration authorities operate in the administrative days, to inform the public on a timely basis. In the end, I'd stick to Article 82. That's exactly the member who, on the other hand, is talking about the public. The authorities of the State shall be obliged in an appropriate manner to make it possible to lodge complaints about their work and to have an irregular relationship with employees in the authorities of the State administration. At the submission of the complaint, the authorities of the State Administration shall be obliged to respond to the party within 15 days, if requested by the party. So, one important provision where the party can not only file a complaint, but also expect an adequate answer, but also a provision is provided for that the authorities of the state administration, just in relation to whether these complaints are repeated, are obliged to consider certain issues that are repeated on every 30 days, individual issues that cause complaints from citizens or individual behaviours of persons working in the authorities of the state administration, such questions are considered once every 30 days. As I said at first, we have before us two more than important laws that are important to improve the work of the executive government, especially the state administration. The DSS MPs support these legislative proposals and will gladly support these legislative proposals in the voting day and vote "yes".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18815	The word has the People's MP Bosko Ristic, and let Rajko Baralić be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18816	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Secretary-General, the DS will vote against the law on state administration and against the law on civil servants, above all for the reasons that these laws exercise the legal certainty of the political influence reached on the state administration and, in general, the institutions of the state government. How does that happen? First of all, we have heard of a pay phone reason that the Government intends to create from the state administration a professional, efficient institution or institutions that should represent the service of citizens and improve the flow of mutual relations in some social processes. It's kind of coming out of the arguments given under this law. However, the government has essentially acted against what it declares to be a reason for passing such laws. As an argument to determine this fact, you have written in today's newspaper, that, let's say, Mr. Covic has been removed from all the positions he has held in the institutions of the state government. It was said here that the previous government and government in which the dominant role of the DS had left such institutions, as well as such laws that allow the political functioning of individual parties through state institutions. It is this example of Mr. Covic that the government has effectively, in one day, carried out the shift of civil servants for political reasons alone. Let's say, let's now take a situation that would happen after the adoption of this law. Let's say, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, who is placed in a position in the Coordination Body, will not, under this law, be replaced when the government changes. For example, today or yesterday, there was no discussion of the responsibility and reasons for stopping Mr. Covic, but on the other hand, Mrs. Sanda will not be able to be removed from that place as long as the body is in the system of our state government, unless the need for the fate of Kosovo, or the south of Serbia ceases. It speaks of the hidden intentions of those who propose such a law. Here was an argument, for example, from Mr. Loncar, who once explained these laws to the Serbian Parliament, so they were withdrawn from the procedure, where it was said that this government intends to reduce the number of state government political institutions, to reduce the number of state officials to be appointed for political reasons only, so it will be brought down to the minister, or to his deputy, and that everything else will be officials who will be professionals. It is precisely there that intention to mutilate political influence on the institutions of state authorities. "Here lies the rabbit," as my colleague from the third bench said. The government is about to execute the first political position on the most significant state functions. So, the government is politically setting up, and then proposing to pass laws to cement such a state of political influence by the DSS and its coalition partners on all state institutions. This means that the government, which now has no support in public, provides its political influence on the institutions of the state and after its fall. Of course, it is now claimed that there will be some independent bodies that will choose and appoint state officials. However, we have such a case, for example, with the High Council of Justice, which should also be a guarantee of the depolitisation of the judiciary. I would ask the chairman to allow me to speak, not to earn, and not to disturb the course of exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18817	Mr. Aligrudic, if you'd like to speak, please take your word for it. Please don't throw the speaker away. Here you go, Mr. Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18818	Therefore, the intention was to ensure that a set of judicial laws prevented political influence on choice and resolution, for example, judges or legal holders. Is that what happens in practice? No, I don't. The last two elections for the most significant judicial functions have shown the dominant influence of the ruling coalition and those of the smallest parties supporting the government since its expected sound drop. It is precisely those places, which have been depolitised, that have been given as a price and a settlement to support this climate government. That's what he's trying to do now with the state administration law and the civil servants law. The government is just seeking to achieve its political influence over the next five years, following the appointment of state officials, as the future government will not be able to replace those state officials who will act politically under the influence of the DSS and parties that will receive certain positions in state institutions in order to settle. That's the essence of these laws. All this other stuff that says, it's a siesta of some of the norms that are, or the law is out of line, some of the situations that are in other laws are back to normal, so there's some nonsensical in which it says, against the government's decision that someone puts in a certain state's position cannot make a complaint, and in the next position, it's said that the decision works from the moment of its finality. If there's no complaint, then it's final. That means the next attitude is unnecessary. That's what article 15 says. So it's insane. Why? Just to cloud the essence, to have a bunch of norms, so that those who read would wander through the woods of those norms, but not to see the essence. Kostunica wants his political influence on state institutions, no matter how much he stands for their depolitisation. I can congratulate him for making his political dream come true. He is truly capable, he has exercised political influence and ensured that the impact is cemented for many years. In a judiciary where it is impossible to resolve prosecutors and judges he has ensured against his party authorities that his membership, his sympathisers, possess the most significant functions in the judiciary. The same thing is a public matter. Announcing the public is just throwing dust into the eyes of those who read this law. Where's the public? I have been asking the Minister of Justice for six months in which the judiciary is financed: how do money is distributed from the budget to prosecutors and courts, by which criteria, by the criteria of closeness, by the criteria of obedience or by the criteria of real needs? What are these real needs? These laws go into the justice system. It says here that the government will establish job systematisation and regulate, that the Supreme Court will sort out the systematisation of the place in the judiciary in some way. It can only be done with a set of judicial laws. It is not possible to classify the positions of the Government in the judiciary. It's a direct influence. The impact on systematisation, on the description of the jobs that officials will do in the judiciary, is the direct influence of the government and the control of the judiciary through instruments over which the Government has full influence. That was the meaning of these laws. It is the realization of a former wish by Mr Kostunica to exert a complete party influence on all institutions. Through the form of legalism, he wants to cover himself with the law, so that someone doesn't transfer him to volunteer, to work anarchically, to do as he pleases! He wants to turn his will into law, ask for your support. Of course she won't get it from DS. I hear they won't get it from any other parties, but they will get it from those who will promise to settle and a certain political influence even after this government's fall.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18819	According to Businessman Milos Aligrudic, a folk MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18820	At the presentation of my predecessor, an implicit mention of the DSS parliamentary group was made through a flossule of the ruling coalition and its intentions. So it is said that the ruling coalition through these two laws, especially under the law on civil servants, intends to provide political influence on civil servants, which is notorous untrue. Namely, such an intention cannot exist. An example has been given that is not adequate. An example of Mr. Neboja Covic, who was at the head of the Coordination Centre, was given an example of how someone else came to the head of this Coordination Centre, not to go into the story, and that the intention was to be at the head of the Coordination Centre. Of course it's not that intention. There's one thing that's forgotten about all this is that civil servants are being appointed for a certain period of time. The whole idea is precisely to create a system in which it will not be possible to automatically resolve someone for political reasons, at least not because of a change in government, at least not because of the change in the congregation's majority and not right away, but that does not mean that these people are mostly in those functions and that they do not disinformation the public they are setting up for a certain time. After that time, their re-election is possible, but it doesn't have to happen. Therefore, the whole system is designed to suggest to us who are the bearers of political functions to take account from now on, and to let the new assembly majority and some new government of the Republic of Serbia tomorrow, as well as how the state officials are appointed. Mistakes are possible, but the Italians have that saying, "Roma non fu fatta in un giorno," that Rome wasn't built in one day. Thus, the system is being built precisely so that both this government and the next government and it would then enter into a kind of routine and a proper relationship with civil servants. This law allows it. If we look at it that way, then we will never be able to execute the appointment of an independent civil servant or a relatively independent civil servant, because if this right is challenged by this government in relation to the deadlines set, then with the same reasons we can perform and challenge that right to the next government and the next and the next, and the result is exactly what you're talking about. It's a politically controlled civil servant. In other words, there is no logical way out of this, and that is why I am telling you that it is not good to accuse the political parties that make up the ruling coalition in this law, especially those who make DSS try to put their paws in the position of civil servants and that they are politically controlled, because one must move. So I just have to ask what that moment is, which is the time when it can start -- that it's not the time when DS is supposed to be in power. If this is the moment and if it is an apology and you say, well we have no confidence in anyone but ourselves, so when we do it, then you can all be sure that the civil servant will be independent. If it's anyone else, then it's no guarantee. If that's an argument he's a purely political argument and no one else here drinks water. If I don't understand you then believe me that the problem is not with me, nor is the problem with the representative of the government here that explains the law, but is the problem with you that can't explain what you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18821	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18822	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, has misread my statement that I believe a choice of civil servants should be made when DS is in power. I'd like to ask Mr. Aligrudic one question. What is this moment when such a law is to be passed and when professional civil servants are to be appointed? I answer to it – the moment when this assembly chooses an independent body or enables the selection of an independent body that will prescribe proposition, criteria, determine salary, systematization, job description and objectively, "not by grandmother or by uncle", make the choice of civil servants. Only then is it possible to implement this. If the first appointment is political, if the first appointment is carried out according to political membership and closeness, then the law means guaranteeing political influence, not preventing such an influence for the next five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18823	The word is made by the representative of Proposer Zoran Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18824	Mr. Aligrudic took a lot of what I wanted to say, but here I am only going to try to say one thing. I don't understand what the first thing is. The appointment of civil servants must take place by 1 July 2007. This first position we are talking about will be conducted according to the competition internally, and if the internal competition fails, according to the public. So the rules on the first setup that the government has implemented, this or another one, are equal to the rules that should apply to the second, third, five hundredth position. No one will appoint a civil servant according to the current criteria and criteria, according to the criteria of political responsibility, give him a term of office for five years and then do what is attributed to the intention of legislators. The appointment of civil servants will follow independent rules and rules of competition as provided for by this law. Then their term of office will be five years. Given that the first appointment must be completed by 1 July 2007, I do not know if there is anyone in Serbia who can say which government will then be in power. Theoretically, it would be this government, but that government will make the first appointment based on competition, not on politics. You talked about Covic in the end. First, as far as Covic is concerned, he is not a good example, since he runs a single body that is common to the government of Serbia and to the Council of Ministers, so for two states, for Serbia and the state union. At the beginning of my speech, I said as long as we have political standings we will also have political responsibility. If someone is set up according to political criteria, then there is no reason to be angry even when they bear political responsibility. So, if Mr. Covic is appointed for the membership of a political party who has turned from the majority into an opposition, then he is politically responsible for it and his shift is quite logical. So what I'm talking about is that this law is exactly what we want to avoid, that we don't put anyone on the political line, and that we don't replace anyone on the political line. Let me say something about the independence of the judiciary, although that's not the point here. I'm reading an excellent act that contributes to the independence of the Serbian judiciary. The acting president of the Republic on 21 March 2003 brings an order, a pherman, you can call him whatever you want and say – for acting Serbian Supreme Court President Sonja Brkic, president of the Novi Sad District Court. Until this moment and until this act, everyone thought that judges were elected by the National Assembly. Everyone thought that you must come from the district court to the Supreme Court on the basis of elections by the National Assembly, and that you must be elected by the National Assembly for the President of the Supreme Court when you become the Supreme Court. Here we have seen how the executive government, though, and the game of the case, in the person of an MP in the 250th part of the people, has been mutilated by the acting judge. Now it wasn't a big problem, it wasn't a problem, it was a problem that an independent body, like the High Council of Justice, didn't listen to someone's wishes and requests, so it was a little bit of a octrois of the office of President of the Supreme Court, rather than being replaced by a Republic Public Prosecutor. In which state do you have the executive power to replace a republican public prosecutor? He did Sali Berisha in Albania in 1992, so the Americans criticised him and it was 1970s in Bangladesh. If it had been in Bangladesh in 1970, I would have referred you to an article by Professor of the University of Zagreb Mikhail Dike on the independence of the judicial office, published in 1990 in annals of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18825	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the job of the secretary of law is here to defend the law, not to conduct political controversy with the MPs. Otherwise, it seems to me from his exposure that he would prefer that Mr. Legion remained a civil servant and that he could get a guarantee for five years and remain in place in one state authority. Examples provided by the secretary of legislation point to his political goodwill in relation to the MPs, in relation to the development of the legal system and the will of all to fix the system of state administration. What Mr. Balinovac was talking about has absolutely nothing to do with what I explained earlier. The question of the first position is asked. He says the government will call an internal competition. Who's gonna call you after that internal competition? Who is now appointed to the state administration by this government? Will any political insinuators of this government come forward? It says – the installation will be completed by 1 July 2007. This means that by October 1st of this year or by October 5th. You may not like that date, but October 5th is also July 1st, 2007. You talked about the political responsibility of certain state officials to perform their duties. The political responsibility is the one who knows whether it's the government or the opposition. The DSS since 2001, then two years in a row, did not know whether it was the government or the opposition. Did she have political responsibility? Did this mean that it was meant to cut down all the staff of the DSS in all the institutions, from top to bottom? Absolutely not. You are the party that has secured the greatest political influence on state institutions in this country since 1945. Perhaps only the period from 1946 to 1953 can be measured by the influence of this government on the state of government, or the system of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18827	The replica was reported by MP Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18828	The ruling G17 Plus coalition is in that ruling coalition and I feel the need to replicate my fellow Bosniaks. I was expecting his statement on the law, but I didn't hear him mention any member, one legal solution. Since I know he's a great lawyer, I expected him to do it. Since the whole story was about whether to pass the law or not, I'll try to speak as a lawyer. The law needs to be passed. Why DS led the DOS has not passed the law for three years, it's only DS known. That doesn't mean that no one else should pass that law because you didn't bring it. We intend to change something, to improve something, and that's exactly what we're doing. I realize that it bothers you that we want to change something that you haven't done, but that doesn't mean that if DS led by DOS hasn't changed anything that no one else can change it anymore. As lawyers, I would like us to read some of the provisions that really ensure the full availability of every function in the government, that is, every calling in the government, and similar changes and during the term of office. If no one is appointed, the right to a administrative dispute shall be granted. To this end, it has not mattered – what administrative dispute against the government's solutions. What other kind of protection is there? So that's not what you're talking about. We're talking about who's got a point on this bill. It's not about points. Something has to change. We want to change that so what's been going on over the years doesn't happen. You had a chance to change it, you didn't do it, it was your will. We'll change that, but this is no argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18829	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18830	State officials, Mr. Ristic, should be such that we cannot label them as supporters of the ruling coalition or opposition, as political like-minded or political inexplicators of the government. When someone shows up for a competition, it's the first time in a public competition, not an internal competition. Read a little of what's been suggested. This means that everyone can come to that competition and when it does, it will not be written in its application, nor will it be asked of it, nor would any of us like to write such a thing, whether it is a sympathiser of the current government or not. Government policies. That certainly can't be the case. As for the DSS, it was created in 1992, Mr. Ristic, I will remind you of a newer history, not 1945. As for the DSS compared to what you call the former regime, meaning the former pre-DOS, the DSS has always been a firm opposition, unlike the DS that took a trip to power in 1993. We remember very well the words of the 1993 DS President, who spoke very nicely of Slobodan Milosevic, who depicted this very regime. Therefore, respecting the DSS participation in any government until 2000, it is total nonsense and any participation in any government decisions from 1945 to 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18831	Thank you. Replica, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the DS for argumentation is being introduced here – for and against the Law on State Administration or on civil servants. It's completely unnecessary, but obviously there's a psychological background that makes you mention DS. What is said here, the DSS was said to be a member of the DOS, between March 2001, when the party's chairman-in-chief said – it was time for new elections both for legalism and moderate nationalism, in status and government and opposition for two and a half years. It was said in the context of a party, in this assembly, in the current assembly, which failed to be both the government and the opposition for two and a half years, but half a day. So, what my colleague Bosko Ristić said, excellently, you learned that there can be no authority or opposition. It's moving forward. But the DSS was both the government and the opposition, an imminent phase after the right time to form political parties. But since they were in that DOS we just said: be the government and the opposition, in March 2001 – you can't. It took you two and a half years. We're glad you solved that problem with your coalition partner in half a day. But it is not the subject of this law, such as what it is that the DS within the DOS did between 25 January 2001 and 4 March 2004, when, after difficult negotiations, the government was formed. It's almost election time. It's a completely pointless position to build an argument for the law we're proposing here, talking about what she missed out on doing to the government, which has passed the election. It's evidence, and whenever that's the case, it's more about its own incompetence than it is about the ability and incompetence of a government that's been through the elections. This government will have the same election ahead of it. The government in the snap elections or future regular parliamentary elections, we hope by the end of the year, December is a good month for the elections, if it survives the elections in some percentage, then its results will be its results. We are talking about the secretary of the Republic Secretariat for the legislation of this government giving us a bill that we consider to be bad. It is not good for the ruling majority to dispute with the opposition that the bill considers it bad. We consider it bad, and about what our argument is and whether it is good or not, leave it to those who are the best judges in every society, including Serbia, whether they will think that the Democrats are well commenting on the bill or not. Dispute someone's right of opposition to say – this law is wrong, don't do it, it seems to us to have political influence, it's not good for the ruling majority. If you learned anything for those two and a half years, as a political party that was both the government and the opposition, then you should learn what we also learned to listen carefully to the representatives of the opposition and never qualify their arguments.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18833	The word came first from Zoran Balinovac as a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18834	This law was not proposed by the Republic Legislative Secretariat to the National Assembly, but by the government behind both draft laws. So, there was a mistake, and that's what I was going to say. Secondly, several times today I went out for this pay phone, not to deny anyone in this world the right to criticise anything, but to try to show just because this session is televised and there are people's MPs here a solid amount of unfoundedness, an unargumentation of criticism of the opposition, of course always coming from the legal point of view. As far as the opposition is concerned, she, of course, should criticise and help us. What I'm saying is that no one has denied this right, but only a few times a man has had to come out, I'm talking about myself now, as a representative of the government, to say that what's being said here is not written in the law or is said because the law is not well read or because it's not well understood the meaning of certain provisions, etc. So it's just a matter of controversy and no law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18835	First, Milan Markovic, MP of the people, and then Milos Aligrudic, MP of the people. Here you go, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've reported to the Rules of Procedure, first of all, for the presentation of the esteemed colleague, Krstin. In fact, colleague Krstin used one argument, which is demagogy, at the very least, something that definitely doesn't resemble a fellow Christian. I've heard that more than once in the last year. So, whatever law here is on the agenda and which DS comes out to criticise or slightly criticize, or even support it, very often some MP comes forward and says, "Why didn't you pass this law?" Gentlemen, if we had passed all the laws to be passed, then we could have abolished the National Assembly, or at least a function to be a legislative body. Simply, the government handled 8,760 and some acts, or the National Assembly. It's impossible now for every law that comes up to ask why it's not him, so it's someone else. As if I were to ask, why does she not process these? Not one national congregation can process all the legislative matter needed by a state. Neither will this National Assembly. When we have elections and a new National Assembly, no one will be able to come out here and say – Mr. Aligrudić, why did you not do that and that law during your term? So because some were on the agenda, simply this order is determined by appropriate policy and by the National Assembly, the Government and other promoters determine the order of laws to be passed. So I don't think that's an appropriate argument. Secondly, Mr. Krstin, the way we from the DS are going to criticise one law is something that belongs to us. So that's our right. You, MPs, the public will assess whether our criticism is justified or not. As you know, we very often support your laws, you, as the ruling majority. We are pleased to support all those laws that are on the course of a pro-European reform policy and that we think are useful. On the other hand, the laws, which we think are bad, we criticise in two ways or in this way: in general or individually by amendments, in detail. Here, above all, we have opted for one general criticism, because we are experiencing that it is extremely hypocritical that one government that has politicised all segments of this society, so all segments of this society are set aside on G17 plus, SPS, DSS and New Serbia, from the bottom down, these are the icy authorities by the parties We have reason to suspect and justifiably criticise something we consider hypocritical, which is that you are telling us that you want to depolitize. How can we trust you to want a depolitanisation when a colleague who sat in your seat, a MP, is elected president of the Securities Commission, which is an extremely apolitical place. Why should we believe that you want some depolitanization? You have shown by your actions, for these years and a few days, that your party interest and party division of the state is above all else. You have shown it in the end, with the shift of Neboja Covic against whom we have in principle nothing. But do you change the man at the head of the Coordination Center overnight?- I'm sorry. (President: Mr. Markovic, time, and I wait to hear a member of the Rules of Procedure. Here, I'm done. So, then you say that the interests of the state matter to you. How important are the interests of the state to you? (President: Mr. Radosavljevic, please calm down your emotions. () Did any of you, of you MPs, even interest you, to hear arguments? Did this coordination center work well? Did Mr. Covic do a good job in southern Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija or was it only important that Vojislav Kostunica was injured and, let's quickly replace the man! And what consequences will this have? That has nothing to do with it? And who will come to the place of Neboja Covic – we will come up with, we have staff in the DSS, all your experts?- I'm sorry. Therefore, the way we criticise a law belongs to us. We seriously doubt your ability as a ruling coalition that you view the state as being superseded and that you view the national state's interest as a supersede rather than looking at everything through the prism of the DSS-SPS - G17 and New Serbia interest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18837	Please, when someone uses the Rules of Procedure to know which member is injured, it is the basis for using the Rules of Procedure. I didn't realize it, and I'm sorry to have to tell my dear colleague Markovic, I didn't realize what the breach of the Rules of Procedure was, and that means the Rules of Procedure has been misused. That's one thing. (Milan Markovic, from the post: Dignity. Mr. Markovic, if dignity is injured, then you have hurt dignity, because you mentioned here the SPS that she holds power by vertical means, and I have not heard what the SPS in power holds. There's nothing in the SPS government except at the local level, where we've won 87 municipalities, the people want us, what we'll do. The word is Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18838	Article 104(1) has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly" and by the speakers for whom I have asked to report to the Rules of Procedure, which is the People's MP Gordana Komic. In fact, you said that the ruling coalition and the ruling coalition MPs have no right to blame MPs of the opposition parliamentary group on how they will explain their opposition to the law. Please, none of us at all dispute your right to make an argument, from a professional point of view, or even from a political point of view, to challenge any proposal that comes into this assembly. This pay phone also serves to open the polemics between us about it. Your argument that we had the opportunity to hear today does not serve to be published. Of course, it is good to publish it, it is good to hear arguments on the one hand and on the other, but that argument primarily serves the MPs of the people, because who will decide on the bill if not the MPs in this assembly? So it's pointless to talk about anything else. Argumentation can be professional, it can be political. We also have a professional and political argument on the part of the political opposition in Parliament, and we deal very well with it. Today we showed and challenged certain arguments that you pointed out. But do you think or are so used to these months that it is possible to oppose the bill, and that the MPs of the ruling majority simply suffer it by keeping quiet and letting the speakers of the opposition political party express themselves, as it was, unfortunately, the custom of these months in the National Assembly, that silences are all that are objections and that no conflicting argument is made. You've had a chance to hear contradictory arguments today. We don't have to agree with each other today about what's a good argument and what's not, maybe we'll stay in our positions. Please don't discuss it that way. I think your discussion in this regard offends the dignity of the National Assembly. In that sense, we are all equal. I will really endure all your arguments, and if I answer to question it on my part, it's a normal political dialogue in the National Assembly, and please don't disprove it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18839	The word is made by the People's MP Marko Krstin, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18840	Infringement of Article 101(1) I tried to explain to my colleagues Markovic and my colleague Ristic that I think we should have discussed legal arguments and that's how I really started my presentation. However, given that counterpart Ristic turned to a full debate from the legal arguments I have always served, I felt that I needed to answer some of his questions. It was just an answer to wrong arguments. Answering wrong arguments can't be answered by legal arguments, you can answer the same by incorrect arguments, including political arguments. Otherwise, I don't often use it, you know, but this time because my colleague Ristic used it because he didn't challenge any member of the law, I had to answer the same question. Let me point out, one law that changes here was passed in 1991, and the other one was passed in 1992. Did it take so much will, years or efforts to make the law change, as counterpart Markovic said? I have no intention of disputing anyone that he hasn't arrived in three years to pass the law, but at the same time it doesn't give right to whoever could have done it, to challenge us to do it. I'm just saying good is, you haven't brought it in three years, we'd like to bring it in and we'll bring it in. Furthermore, since you supported us to pass some regulations, I must tell you that we had enough of the majority to bring them without you. Therefore, you supported it not because of us, not because of the DSS, but because the regulation is good and we recognize it. You still support us when they're good regulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18841	Thank you, Mr. Christin. The word is Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18842	I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by the exposure of Mr. Aligrudić before that, Mr. Balinovac. I'll try to explain that in three minutes. Of course, first of all, I want to tell my dear colleague Krstin – the essence of our argument is political. We don't enter individual solutions here. I wanted to say, we have the right to such an argument, because we doubt the government's sincere intentions, and that's why I intervened when you criticized our way of arguing. So we doubt the government's intentions, and in doing so, we have arguments about this suspicion stemming from what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done so far, which is the full politicisation of our society. So, the state of Serbia, all segments of this society are divided between four parties and four leaders and we think it's a bad way to function. That's what we said when we passed the Government Act and when we passed some other laws. We stay on it, and the citizens will decide whether or not it fits, let them think for themselves. We did support the government's legislative proposals solely because we think they are good, that's exactly what you said, Mr. Krstin, but you would never have passed the Seed Act, or the Seed Act of the Government would never have passed if it hadn't been for the Democratic Party to vote. I'll remind you, at that time, your coalition partner did not vote because the agriculture minister said that during Slobodan Milosevic, corpses were transported in freezers across Serbia. That's what the Minister of Agriculture said. The SPS was offended. Considering that the Seed Act is good, we haven't seen who insults us. If we look at who insults us, every day someone insults us from this pay phone, but we voted in favour of the law because the law is good and there is no dilemma for us. Mr Balinovac, I think the government has changed this rules of procedure so that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia would not come to the National Assembly. The Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia otherwise do not respect the assembly properly. You've now come to the National Assembly and I don't think you should have entered the political part of the story because you're a face that isn't a minister. You shouldn't have gotten into it, but you're right to, although I find that quite incorrect. You have shown here a single act that came after the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, after which the current prime minister proposed a coalition government, a government of concentration unity, I don't know who should be in that government, but that the government was formed, I'm afraid the trail of events would be different. If you pull back the story of what happened in 2003, what was several months before that, when the Red Berets rebelled, then blocked the way, so if we start talking about what was going on in the trial of Prime Minister Djindjic's murderers, then statements by the leader of the ruling Legion coalition, "Red Berets", this discussion goes unrefundable. Therefore, you try to refrain from it, because I think the DSS has much to be ashamed of when it comes to the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic and the events that preceded it and the events that followed. So I expect you to focus first of all on the law. Let us criticise the law as we think we should. Here, I am finishing Mr Vice President, again, arguing that this law should not be supported by MPs, for a simple reason, which comes to the further politicisation of Serbia and that the ruling parties, headed by the DSS, will ensure further political influence both after the elections and after their loss of power. Thank you. (More MPs reporting at the same time. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18843	Wait, first word is Mr. Balinovac, what do I do, I have to respect my rules of procedure as a rule of service. First Mr. Balinovac, then according to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Aligrudić, then you, for the replica. (He speaks to the People's Messenger Bosca Ristić, who seeks the word of the Rules of Procedure. No, you answered the line. (Bosko Ristić from the post: I reported to the Rules of Procedure. I heard very carefully. Now maybe you've changed, Mr. Ristic, just a little bit. Here you go, Mr. Balinovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18844	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There has been no policy here on my part, because a political qualification of the proposed law on civil servants has been given, according to which institutionally all things and all institutions are filled with people who are faithful, loyal and similar to Vojislav Kostunica and DSS. I made an argument as to why it wasn't true and then simply showed how it was done before and how it was done directly in some cases, no matter what, no frame. I simply showed on this case how it is done in Serbia. In the case of Natasa Micic, as acting president of the Republic, who practically made several coups here and compared how much that argument was, that here I am told by the Government to take over all institutions, in fact a minor and when I consider the law itself, and even when I consider what was open and unobstructed. And as for the transfer of the President of the Supreme Court and the events that preceded it, I personally don't see any connection in these matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18845	Here you go, Mr. Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18846	It is mentioned that the DSS should be ashamed of events related to the murder of Zoran Djindjic. You should be ashamed of all the citizens of this country, as we are ashamed of ourselves, as you DS gentlemen should be ashamed of all these events, as you should be ashamed of DOS authorities, as you should be ashamed of the beating of basic human rights during something you called "Sabbe" action! That's why we're ashamed of it, too, because unfortunately we've lived in such a regime, although we've tried to put an end to it, and of course it's stopped. But everyone should be ashamed of having government officials who are suspected of hanging out with those criminals who are on the defendant's bench today for killing the same prime minister! Therefore, that is a reason for shame. If someone should be ashamed of it, then we should be ashamed of all of us together for having such a power, especially you who participated in it and held an active role, especially at the time of these events.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-08-30-0.u18847	Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow at 10.00.
