ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 143 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall and that, therefore, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Aleksandar Vlahovic, Milisav Petronijevic, Milorad Belic and Takač Istvan. We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF RAD (resumption in details) Member of the 36th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marko Krstin. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Labour Committee, the fight and social issues have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11738	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 36 of the proposed law. This article refers to a working contract that can also be negotiated and probationary work. He says, "The labor contract can contract trial work. The test work may take up to six months. During the trial work, the employer and the employees may cancel a contract of work with a cancelled deadline that cannot be shorter than five working days. An employee who did not show adequate working and professional skills during the test period shall cease working relationship on the expiry date specified by the working contract. "The SRS intervention for this member is this: we ask that in the position of the 2nd Article 36, the words "six months" be replaced by the words "three months". In accordance with Article 3, the new position 4 is added: "Assessing the relevant working and professional skills of an employee who is on probation is assessed by the commission appointed by the employer from the ranks of employees who have at least the same degree of professional training as the one employed in the trial work". The present position 4 becomes attitude 5." The government, refuting this amendment, said something like this -- there are very complex jobs that take at least six months of trial work, and the employer and the worker were left at large to negotiate this trial work between three and six months. However, there are many more jobs that are less complex and that need no more than three months of trial work, and for those particularly complex jobs, this can be arranged differently. We can't expect the employer to always respect that. He will determine the trial work for six months, and in some ways it will be the act of a member of the law and a sort of work for a certain time. The labour supply is huge. He'll keep a worker for six months, and then he says, "You haven't satisfied me, I'll take another." He'll be paid six months less than she's paid for work he's not tried for. What is special, see who estimates whether the worker has shown sufficient quality to do the job? The employer. He is in the interest of spending more workers on probation because he will pay less for them. It may be in some normal countries, where there is a normal labour market, where there is an offer and demand for a workforce that is balanced, this is also applicable, but at this point, knowing employers in Serbia and what the offer and demand for labour is, this is really not applicable. After all, we've proposed here again, we're not jeopardizing the right of the employer, he's proposing that commission. They will assess whether the worker has satisfied this trial work, and they too are interested in satisfying it, because he will work in the company, and if he does well, they will benefit from it. I'm really afraid that if we don't change this article by amending the law, we get a situation that we're going to have a huge number of trial workers, so after six months, they're going to get -- you haven't satisfied. There will come a second and a third, and such is the demand for jobs, that many will agree to work for these poorest wages, in order to earn at least some money. This way, if we adopt this amendment, we will resolve it, and I am aware that Minister Lalovic, as a former prominent union official, worker and my fellow unionist, understands this perfectly well and may be able to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11739	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here you go, Miss Jovanovic, then Mr Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11740	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you need to listen to some other argument, although the one presented by Dragoljub Stamenkovic, who, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, has submitted an amendment, is sufficient to understand that it is necessary to help people who are going to seek a job or those who are already in the process of being on trial, to put them out of their misery and to allow them to be, instead of the six, three months proposed. The minister has told us a lot about the various moves of the governments of the Western countries when it comes to the employment process and you have to agree with it, Mr. Lalovic, that with us, it is such a situation that because of the collapse of the economy, because of the fact that some industries do not function, the educated mind for certain areas of the economy cannot find employment, people are forced to go from one profession to another, and that is also characteristic of those countries that you referred to when you were talking about the percentage of employment, or unemployment. In your answer, it took a longer period of time for a certain type of job, a profession, to see if anyone was qualified. However, this is not the case in the West, which you are referring to. Even that degree of transition from one educational profile to another is highly expressed because of, after all, the recession faced by their economy. Let's say, it's Germany, if you're already referring to those statistics. People have to resort to not working in their profession, and it's very often a problem with us, because there's no job for all machine engineers, for all graduate lawyers, for economists, for people who have finished a certain high school, and they have to overqualified themselves in that way, whether or not they wanted to, conditionally overqualified, and now you're forcing them to do their probation work, despite their torments, to be longer than the optimal three months. We don't think that's a good solution, and we think that because of that, and we believe that union representatives would agree with us, there will be a number of abuses by employers, because that way they will use a six-month period to allegedly test the employee's working and professional skills and say simply - it doesn't suit us. It's a very common case, that's what happens when it comes to some manufacturing activity, the abuse of that kind, and when it comes to business most often in trade. So listen to everything we've told you and accept the amendment. You will find great approval with the citizens of Serbia, especially those who are looking for work, because in this way you will allow them to look more securely in their future so qualified and securely probably in those qualities they can provide, that after three months, if they meet all the conditions, they will be able to stay permanently in their workplace.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11741	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Meanwhile, I welcome those present on the balcony, representatives of the Independent Union of Serbia. Thank you for following this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11742	Here's another member who breaks and sees that the bill is bad because he's going into something called a legal institute known long ago, arranged by the International Labour Organisation Convention. Before I move specifically to this amendment by Mr. Stamenkovic, I have to point out that even at the time of self-government, when working relationship was more of a social category than a working-law institute, when it wasn't particularly a big problem to hire as many people as possible, regardless of whether there was a need to organise joint work, and then there was an institute of trial work. He was then a special condition for working in a particular workplace. It could not have been predicted for all jobs but only for certain posts, before being permanently employed, the worker must pass through certain checks on whether he is qualified for these jobs and whether he can meet the conditions of the job needed. At that time, there was a limit that no one could be accepted as a trainee. We have a negation of this institute here. This is where the legal nature of the trial work changes. With the right of the SRS MPs to point out possible abuses. Why? Because maltenes every job can be predicted as a workplace for which, as a special condition of work, it is necessary to carry out a check, i.e. to start the test run first, so it is raised to six months that it can last and then perfectly normal can be expected that the employer in the workplaces is constantly working on probation, held by three, four, five or six months and then said - you didn't meet, come on next. Probably on the basis of the trial work, he also acquires the possibility of predicting a lower profit, since it is not a classical working relationship, or that person is not employed. It's being checked during a certain period. So at the time of self-management, when working relationship was not a major problem, nor a great need for work, but rather a social category, to prevent communists from abusing their directors and employees' rights made up difficult conditions to avoid abuse. The difficult conditions were that a general act was envisaged, so forward. Another difficult condition was that it took a certain time and, thirdly, perhaps the most difficult condition, to assess whether anyone had satisfied could only be carried out by a commission, composed of workers who had at least the same degree of professional training as the one required for that appropriate job. When these conditions are thrown out at the probationary institute, it is not probationary work but legalised work for a certain period of up to six months, i.e. unlimited possibility that the employer can only change on the basis of this member on a daily basis and that he knows in advance that he has no obligation to the employee, or worker, and thus prevent him from being in a position or position of employee. That's why we're putting up with these amendments. If the promoter wanted to throw out this institute, he doesn't need it. Since he's already given there up to three years that he can for a certain time, it probably only exists with us, and he hasn't stated the reasons or conditions under which it can happen, then it's clear to you that this law is no better than the existing law at all. This is probably just a codification of new possibilities for abuse of rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11743	The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment submitted by SRS MP Mr. Stamenkovic is entering into the core of the problem. Even though we heard yesterday that the number of employees is far higher, that unemployment has decreased, the ranks in front of the labour bureaus are huge and, unless this amendment is adopted, the possibility of manipulation, the possibility of bringing people to a minority slave relationship is enormous. The fact is that Mr. Tadic in the election campaign said he would cut ranks in front of the embassies, the ranks of people waiting for visas, go past any Western embassy, especially if you go there next to Patriarchia, there's probably an Austrian embassy, and you'll see a row from morning, with chairs of two hours at night waiting for people to get their hands on visas. By restructuring the economy, by privatising, a huge number of employees have lost their jobs and are on the labour bureaus. The trial work can be introduced not only for those who first start a working relationship, although in this case they are the most endangered, because there are many, getting out of school, have no perspective, have no possibility of being employed. However, the test work as a category can be introduced for each job, the trial work of six months, as foreseen by the law, means in any case, it mainly means the least material contributions, i.e. less income, less wages for the six months, because man is on probation. If we shorten that period from six to three months, and we know that the employer is only interested in profit, after six months he will say, as Mr Krasic says, I'm sorry, but you haven't even met at work, he will receive a new one and will pay less again. If we reduce everything, that period to three months, and there are few in this law of good members, however, that will regulate this relationship, but employers will imagine little. On the other hand, when the traineeship is completed, the commission that will decide whether he is satisfied or not cannot be made up of people who have less professional equipment than those who have been on probation, for the simple reason that people are certainly not qualified to appreciate the work of someone else, especially what with the same expertise and with different education profiles, is a little harder to fit in and prove that someone is qualified or not qualified to work. If you adopt Mr Stamenkovic's amendment, we will significantly improve this bad legal project anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11745	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11746	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear citizens, and on this case, Article 36, which addresses the issue of probationary work, see what the shortcomings of this bill, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted to the National Assembly. The SRS Parliament Club aimed to amend to Article 36, which was submitted by Mr Stamenkovic and talked about by our distinguished colleagues, Mr Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Momir Markovic, in particular stressed the importance of replacing the People's Assembly's position of 2nd member of the 36th term "six months" in the words "three months". With this amendment, the SRS proposes to reduce the trial work from six months to three months, as employers in practice can abuse the trial work as a fixed time. The government does not accept the amendment with an explanation that for certain complex tasks a trial period of three months would not be sufficient for employees to show appropriate working and professional skills. It is therefore foreseen that the test work can last for six months, and the employer has the right to establish, in accordance with the complexity of the work, the length of the trial work and for a shorter duration of six months. This member is not favourable to workers, and that is quite clear. We have submitted an amendment to protect our interests, because trial work shouldn't be longer than three months, and what does that mean in the government's response to individual complex jobs? You could have regulated that in a different way in the legal proposal. In the end, the SRS will continue in today's exhibition to defend all these amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly, with the aim of making the Government change in some of its views towards the strongest political party to fight, as you say yesterday here, the Demagogue, using one political trick, because you used the last five minutes to say that the opposition MPs are talking to you here and collecting political points. First of all, we are not collecting cheap political points, Mr. Minister, we are the political party that is strongest in Serbia, thanks to the very voices of Serbia's citizens and workers. We believe that this law, which you have submitted to the National Assembly, is not well drawn up, that it does not solve all the problems that are related to the social sphere. It does not protect the interests of the employees, nor the interests of the employer entirely and everything you said about this speaker, using a skillful, skillful opportunity, which allows you to use the last 10 minutes, so we couldn't replicate you, I think you said a series of things that are not and are not standing by this law. The law has completely resolved or resolves the issue of one matter when the law is proposed to the National Assembly, then it must be fully written and I understand that you should defend the law that the government has submitted to the National Assembly as a resolution minister, but I cannot understand that you are calling MPs why they are criticising the law. The law is not well-conceived, it is not well written, it does not address issues that are vital to all employees, so it does not protect neither the interests of employers nor the interests of the working class entirely. You said nicely in your opening statement that this is one environment between the previous law, or the current law, which has completely dismayed the citizens of Serbia, who has brought the former DS government, as the holder of DOS authorities, but also this law is not the solution. This is half a solution, half a solution is no good. We have tried these amendments to help the government accept these amendments, so that the National Assembly and MPs vote so that these amendments that we have submitted make this law, which is not well-conceived, a law in the interest of all citizens in Serbia. This is the basic objective of the amendments that we have submitted to the National Assembly, and I think you should have that in mind, regardless of your desire to pass this law as soon as possible and quickly as possible. When you refer to individual IOR decisions and EU recommendations, it is not the first place in Serbia's citizens' interest in the reasons for the law, because at least you could write here what the reasons for the adoption of this law are. It is not the first and basic reason to bring our legislation into line with European legislation. The first and basic reason is to enable employees to be protected and that this legislation solves all the problems that are essential to all citizens of Serbia. We in the SRS want, like everyone else in Serbia, that Serbian citizens live better, and should live better, and let the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic share the fate of their people.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11747	The People's Messenger Miljko Četrovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11748	Dear People's MPs, proof that the legislator did not want to change many of the things that are related to working relations, to the application of the existing labour law, which proved fatal to workers above all. By refusing and this amendment proves that neither the government nor the ministry wants the position of workers to change in a legal sense. The real situation is that workers are left to chic and abuse, starting from the very beginning of a working relationship, to the achievement of all labour rights, and not to mention cancellations of work contracts, where they are without any protection and by labour inspection, that I am not talking about very slow and almost inaccessible protection by courts. Now, at this time, this working relationship or contract of work begins with trial work, so there is the first step that a legislator or a legislator of this law should take. This argument, which was given by rejecting this amendment, that for certain complex jobs the trial period of three months was not enough, the promoter could have exceeded, in the least case, to separate jobs, and that the trial work lasted the longest, if it was consistent and wanted to remain consistent, six months for the most complex jobs, and for less complex jobs or simple jobs, this trial work to last for up to three months; and even this trial work could have been distributed for a short period of time. Imagine, the trial work of a cleaning worker, not to mention salesmen's jobs, cafe jobs, and I know a lot of examples in the King's office that a huge abuse is done through this trial contract. Often and there are no contracts, and these employers use the infunction of our system institutions, specifically labour inspections, so that workers are unable to be protected and on several occasions based their working relationship through trial work, so that the employer fires them after a certain period, receives others. There's a huge insecurity of workers, who are living in the delusion that they've started a working relationship, but they've basically never been designed for all this time. This is one of the key amendments that needs to correct this huge injustice, the hack of workers. Unfortunately, the refusal of this amendment would continue to protect the employer only, and in the end, the worker could never be in an equal relationship with the employer or in the establishment of a working relationship, or in any exercise of labour rights. If the worker is not behind the state, if the Ministry of Labour does not stand through the labour inspection, if there is no judicial protection for the achievement or violation of the human rights of workers from working relationship, then whom will the workers turn to and from whom they will seek protection. I am a witness that the King's labour inspection essentially does not meet its tasks, does not carry out legal obligations, does not protect workers when it comes to trial work, not to mention the other protection that is necessary in the termination of the labour contract, illegal, contrary to all legal norms. But unfortunately, these workers are out of work, they're scrawny, they're speaking to the District Court in the King. These procedures are long, slow and often employers will not only execute labour inspection decisions, if they occur, even judgments of the municipal court. It's one reality, which I believe is in all of Serbia. Therefore, expectations for this bill to be far better compared to the existing law, which is disastrous for workers, have not done any good in all parts of the work in Serbia, but unfortunately the minister will not accept legitimate remarks, such as the amendments that were directed to partially correct such a bad bill. In this sense, this amendment should also be accepted and at least protected by workers in this trial work, because this trial work is again a barrier to a permanent working relationship.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11749	The word is from Ambassador Marko Krstin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11750	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment to Article 36, I think we could agree that it is necessary to strengthen the protection of workers on probation. I think that's the common point of this discussion now. However, I'm afraid that protection is not strengthened by reducing from six to three months. I don't think the norm itself is protecting enough workers as it is set up. Let's start with the test work being a possibility, it's not an obligation, and it can be overlooked by a contract, not a must. So it won't be for every spot of probation. It's very important not to be in this dilemma to test the work of destroying the work relationship. No, he needs to introduce a worker into a working relationship through checking his abilities. However, we, in a law that has an internal defect, have brought into a job situation so that the employer can cancel it, giving it a five-day notice, regardless of how much trial work is agreed upon. If you are reading article 3 of this article, during the probationary work an employer and employees may cancel a work contract, with a cancelled deadline that cannot be shorter than five working days. So it doesn't seem relevant at all whether the trial contract is concluded for three months, at four or six, because the employer can cancel it without any conditions, giving the deadline to the worker five days. That defect of the norm can be removed by amendment, which I have proposed to the same member. The employer could cancel before the agreed deadline, unless the worker shows adequate knowledge and ability to work at the workplace. It is an amendment that would also satisfy these remarks that the worker is underprotected when on trial. So trial work is obviously necessary. He serves both the worker and the employer, but we should not leave it to the employer at any time with a cancelled deadline to cancel the worker’s probationary work. If it is agreed on for four months, at three months, for six months, and the worker has not shown results during that duration, he could cancel it, but must first determine that he has not shown the results that qualify him to move on. This is my proposal, to accept this amendment that I have given to Article 36, so that paragraphs 3 and 4 are replaced, because this alone satisfies better protection of workers than possible cancellations before the deadline. So, the employer could then quit, if the worker doesn't show the results within the time limit, and before the deadline, and not otherwise as scheduled, for no reason whatsoever, just to cancel the deadline for five days. I suggest that my amendment be accepted, and I think that that way we would also satisfy these apparitions that say that the worker is too much in the hands of the employer and that this one can cancel when he wants to, just to cancel the five-day deadline. It doesn't matter if the trial work lasts three months, four or six, but what are the conditions for it to be cancelled before the term is up by the employer, and what is the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11751	The word has a folk MP, Osto Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11752	I agree with Mr. Stamenkovic's amendment, and I believe that this six-month deadline is a big deadline. Each employer is within two months, within three months, able to see if the worker he received in the employment relationship is responding or not. That is why I support this amendment submitted by Mr Stamenkovic. However, there is one thing I wanted to tell you in front of this pay phone. A year ago, more precisely on 18 February 2004, on one Privatisation Committee, the current minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, said: "Privatisation from 2003, or the fruit of privatisation from 2003, will be felt in the second half of 2004 by the hasty employment of workers." Then in 2005, we will be able or we will need to import fresh labour. After that, elections came for the president of the Republic and in his campaign, the gentleman, and now the current president, Tadic, immediately promised 500,000 jobs. You remember, right away, and I thought these were the jobs that Mr. Vlahovic promised. But now I can see that it was throwing dust into the people's eyes. I fully agree with this amendment submitted by Mr Stamenkovic, the employer will be able to conclude or decide within three months whether the worker who received the employment relationship is responding or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11753	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Rajko Baralic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has an MP, Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11754	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 37 regulates a working relationship for a certain period of time. In our amendment, we have suggested that the working relationship for a certain period of time lasts a year, to be exact, our amendment reads: "The working relationship is based on a time whose duration is predetermined when it comes to: seasonal affairs, work on a particular project, increasing the volume of work that lasts at a certain time, replacing the absent worker and so on, during the duration of these needs", but that it does not last longer than 12 months. We believe that if a working relationship for a certain period of time would last for three years, as proposed in the law, the question can be rightly asked whether the jobs for which the worker was admitted at a specified time really have a temporary character. Working for a certain time should only be limited to certain cases and jobs. So when these are real needs, rather than rather vaguely defining this form of work, allow the employer to receive workers for a certain time for jobs that have a lasting character. When you've been working for three years, you can't say it's a job of temporary character. Every job that lasts three years or takes more than a year doesn't have a temporary character. This is the creation of an earlier law and of those who have proposed this law. It is possible over three years that the employer imposes various jobs that are below the quality of his knowledge, opportunities, because it is indeed a time of three years of great uncertainty. In addition, these provisions in the previous law, which was valid until 2001, were tied during six months. Of course, it is clearly prescribed in which conditions a working relationship is based for a certain period of time. The working relationship at a certain time is based when there is a sudden increase in the number of jobs, and besides these jobs that are temporary, but most often the working relationship at a certain time comes as a substitute for someone who is absent from work. In that law, these conditions are clearly specified, in which cases there is a replacement. There's a substitute in case the worker gets sick, when he goes into the army, when he's in public office. I think to the most extent these cases are just being represented. If we were to interpret this in some order, when it comes to sickness, I might accept Minister Lalovic's proposal that the working relationship be for a certain time, because in Serbia there is an increasing number of people who are suffering from malignancies. All of this is, above all, the result of NATO aggression, bombing, NATO uranium bombs. What has hurt us in the SPS since 2001 has hardly been allowed to raise a voice and tell us what NATO has done to us. Doctors say that, but very hiddenly, the media doesn't carry it, so to speak. If we're talking about replacing someone who's going into the army, then this one-year definition would be quite enough, and maybe six months. We've reduced the military deadline to nine months. The president of the country every three months, and I think of the Marovic Council, reduces and shortens the military deadline. All defence ministers, Tadic, and today, are heavily committed, that the army should be reduced to 20,000 or 30,000 soldiers. In our environment, we do not have such a situation, we do not have this hostile environment, and above all in Kosovo and Metohija. Apparently, even today, regardless of change, state policy does not run when it comes to this key issue, the military breaks down in every way possible. When I talk about these public functions, I don't know who would be right, whether it's the minister or us. Let us take MPs as significant public workers, the mandate of the last assembly lasted three years. The term of office of this term may be shorter. The president of the Serbian Movement, Bogoljub Karic, announces that he will steal MPs, steal because it is possible that Bogoljub Karic has MPs when he does not go to the elections. Obviously anything in this country is possible. We would like to ask Bogoljub Karic, this theft of MPs, whether it is domestic, whether it is Serbian, what it is. He's not giving up. So if we look at all this, working relationship for a certain time, and I'm going back to that key question, it's going to take a year. These good European rules, it's about a year to three years old, so it's possible that it's three years of moss in Europe, but for our conditions and opportunities, it's enough for a year. Everything else is a big uncertainty for the one who works.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11755	Thank you. The word is from MP Rajko Baralic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11756	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable union representatives, with counterpart Tom Busetic, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 37. In addition to what Mr. Busetic said, I would like to say once again and ask Mr. Minister and MPs to consider the argument we have offered. I understand why the legislator wrote exactly as it stands here and what we propose with the amendment has certain risks, but I believe that the risks are less than the possibility of manipulations that the law provides in this way. So a working relationship to a certain time of three years can be a source of manipulation, it can be a source of pressure on someone who's been working permanently for three years. On the other hand, one number of people can make it impossible for them to start a working relationship that way. I'm aware of the risk, but since I'm not here as an employer's lawyer, I speak here on behalf of the workers, and with permission on behalf of the union, I think it's more important that there is no possibility that there is an option that is an element of pressure on those who are employed at a certain time. There's a different argument, there's a different approach. Practice has shown that when someone needs to hire someone continuously for three years at a certain time, they could objectively do so in another way. So three years are long for someone who works for a certain time. For one who doesn't work at all, they're even longer. I understand that and I understand that approach, but we believe that if you asked the workers and the unemployed, they would plead for what my colleague Bushetic and I wrote in the amendment. I believe that fellow MPs will support this amendment, unless Mr. Minister accepts it earlier, so it becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11757	The word has an MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11758	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, just a few sentences in favor of this debate. I think this institute "work for a certain time" is being most abused today. In this context, this amendment should be supported, for the reason that by working for a certain period of three years, the employer usually avoids that obligation, when the need for a worker ceases, to pay for the severance and other fees that are required to respect when he has had a situation for the worker to work indefinitely. When we look at the last position, where it is said that work on a certain period of time grows to work indefinitely if the employee remains to work at least five working days after the expiry of the period on which he was admitted, the worker is not in a position to insist on it, although it often does, out of fear that he will resent the employer and then will not have a chance to work with the same employer in the future, even if there is a need for work, even if he is a valuable and good worker. I think the most common abuses of working for a certain time are the way it is now. I know the law is never an obstacle, as far as I'm concerned, to hire someone. The problem is whether or not he has a job, and everything else is a less important story.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11759	The word is Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11760	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, and in the case of members of 37, it is evident that the labour law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia does not give solutions that will solve this area in the way that the citizens of Serbia want, as workers, whose interests do not protect themselves. Let's say, in Article 37, like the colleagues who spoke before me said, working for a certain time to last for three years, I think it's a long period. Of course, that period should be shortened. The point of this article in 37 is that you haven't paid enough attention. I think big abuses have been and can only be if this article 37 is adopted in this bill. It is clear that this amendment, which has been submitted by colleagues from another political organisation, reduces this period from three to one year in this area. Of course it's a better solution. So, this bill, when it's been set up, obviously didn't take care of this part when it comes to establishing a working relationship for a certain time, and the interests are, in order to avoid the abuse of employers in relation to employees, to protect themselves. This Article 37. The bill was not well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11761	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Zivodarka Dacin, but the amendment was withdrawn. Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Momir Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11762	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and despite the fact that we believe this law will be inadmissible in the good part, I have tried to correct it with an amendment, to at least be done in writing. It seems that in copying or in translation there was no respect for the order of words, so it turned out to be something else entirely. Article 44 says, "The employer can arrange jobs outside his premises that are not dangerous or harmful to the health of employees and other persons and do not endanger the environment." Such an interpreted member of the law means that an employer can go to a bar with someone to arrange jobs, which no one forbids him as an employer. The essence of Article 44 is that the employer can contract out-of-work jobs. I don't understand why the amendment hasn't been adopted. Don't disturb the order, don't disturb anything in the law, it just improves it. I realize that language and lexical law-making doesn't mean much to people who, not to put it illiterately, but they don't appear illogically. I remember the prime minister's opening statement, when he said "so Serbia will be more European". Mr. Minister, in the combination of adjectives "European", it can't be "European", "the most European", etc. You adopt this amendment so that the law can look at least like something and adopt this amendment, so that this member can be applied as you imagine.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11763	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Djordjevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11764	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, on Article 53(2), I have submitted an amendment, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, to replace the words "employee" with the words "employee". We think the formulation we gave this amendment is more appropriate. The Government's reply is that it does not accept the amendment to Article 53(2). In a way, we can say that this shows the haughtiness of the Serbian government. This article, which addresses the issue of overtime, says: "At the request of the employer, the employee is obliged to work longer than full-time in case of force majeure, sudden increase in the volume of work and in other cases when it is necessary to complete a job that is not planned (hereinafter: overtime). In the second position, he says, "Off-time work can't last longer than eight hours a week, not more than four hours a day per employee. "We think it's more appropriate to replace these words "by employee" with the words "for employee". The remark was made by the union on Article 53 that it should be added "at most 240 hours in the calendar year", meaning to specify how much overtime it can be. This case also shows that you do not want to adopt what is not a problem, since you will not even accept it and that you have applied the wrong grammar formula in this bill. Here you show all the nature of your behaviour, and even when you defend the labour law, you should bear in mind that everyone who voted in the previous elections, and all the political parties that are parliamentary today have, above all, the task to submit proposals in this assembly, to participate in the work of law making, to give their suggestions if the ruling majority formulates legislative proposals that do not fully resolve laws in certain areas. When it comes to this law, I believe that you have decided to bring this law at all costs, to convince Serbian citizens that this law is better than the previous one, and also to say that you have brought it in efficiently and quickly. The fact is that these laws will not solve problems and there is no big difference between the previous and this law. With our presentations, defending the amendments that we submitted to the National Assembly on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we had a goal and we thought that you would have enough hearing to accept most of the SRS amendment. You didn't do it, you showed you didn't have the will, that your goal was to pass the law. It doesn't matter what happened before and what matters to you, and it is important for us that, above all, the interests of Serbian citizens are to pass quality laws. We need to protect these laws and employees and employers. This law is not well regulated, it doesn't regulate this area properly and it won't solve the problems in this part that is very important. You have decided to pass this law, by the will of your majority you will probably adopt it, but do not forget the fact that all those who have listened to your promises in the election campaign are watching you a year and a half ago. You didn't make any of that happen. Basically, if you're talking about the previous government, we can say about them what we were saying about this speaker. The goal of this government and the National Assembly is to change what the previous government did. In this area, the previous DS government, when it comes to workers, has done great damage to both the state and the working class, has in one way humiliated the citizens of Serbia, and as far as you're concerned, when you're passing these laws, you should bear in mind that you have to be looked at and treated by people in the next elections. This law did not protect employees' interests, did not protect the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11765	Thank you. The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11766	I'd like to make a few comments about this morning's amendment debate, I think it's necessary to clarify some things. When it comes to the amendment and when we talk about the trial work that was here, I want to point out the fact that his character has really changed in relation to past times, and there's absolutely right who pointed that out. Of course, with the change in the system, they have to change the institutes, get along with it. I think we all agree on that. He used to have rehearsal work, then his character, then the commission, everything else. In changed circumstances, if we hadn't changed our institutes, we'd be making a mistake. So, in the changed system that we're building, I think we're building it successfully, and I'm sure we're going to build it, and in that sense we're going to change Serbia's character, trial work is one possibility that an employer and employees in a work contract, if they agree to enter a trial work, because it can be an employer's interest, they say (the employer) I want to receive you, but I want to check you out a certain period of time, if you accept under those conditions to work; (employees) - I accept; they sign a labor contract and it says how many months there. So the completely changed character of a working relationship changes all other things and that's part of the thing that's causing some confusion. We said here, six months longer. As far as they'll agree, it's a matter of the two sides. Of course, when it comes to trial work, we do not say with any provision, nor can we say that in the course of the trial, someone will have less pay or less than he would have had if there were no trial work. We didn't say that anywhere, and that's not the point we have to say. It's normal to have a proper, same salary, but it's a matter of working contract, where they'll arrange all those elements. I point out once again, not only because of MPs, but also because of Serbian citizens, that the working relationship in Serbia has definitely changed its character. We're getting used to it, he's become a contractual relationship, and that's what's important, with the state through legislation sorting out certain rules of the game because of those who are weaker in it, and that's what they're looking for a job. That's why the state primarily protects their position through the laws, and employers, if they respect the laws, have the freedom to negotiate with people who need to work with them. This completely altered character of working relationship has caused as an imminent thing and a change in the character of trial work. We still have traineeships in the law elsewhere, just before that was messed up, we've got traineeship work and he's got another character. The trial work is something else, and in that sense it's a very clear explanation, and I don't think there's any reason to change the solution from the law, nor does it make any sense to do that. There's one thing I have to say -- there's a number of times here that the government hasn't accepted amendments that go to improve the text of the law. I must say once again that we have accepted all those amendments that we consider to be improving the law, since the largest number of speakers from one political organisation is, there we have accepted three amendments from the SRS, which I think are very important and good. That was our assessment. The next thing you know, when we talk about a working relationship for a certain period of time, the amendments themselves spoke about the risks. We have to take our chances sometime. So it's about creating certain flexible forms of workwork. Is it better if one employer in one place in Serbia has an interest and wants to hire 100 people for a certain time for three years to work, or we better limit his seasonal work here, so they can work for a year at the most, and he wants to hire them for three years. It is also one thing we must accept, rather sooner than later, that flexible forms of work are in the interests of workers and in the interest of increasing employment in Serbia. We often hear that the problem is unemployment. Of course, Serbia's biggest social problem is unemployment. But we're fighting to keep her down. One of the mechanisms is to define flexible forms of working relationships, to create optimal conditions for employers to employ people, and working relationship for a certain time to three years is one of the flexible forms. If we didn't have it, we'd be directly against the workers and directly against the unemployed. So, with this proposal, the government is completely coming out, going that way. One more small thing and one big one. The little thing -- the last two amendments we've had here at the debate are linguistic. I must say that, on account of both these amendments, we have held consultations with the Republic's legislation and the lecturers, and their position, suggestion and opinion that these solutions that are better legal and technical and linguistic than these two amendments. That's the answer, you know what this is about. I don't think that's a big question, but just so you know, we always consult when these things are with those who are paid to know. Another note, since it has been commented here, of course it is not the first and most basic reason to adopt or propose this law to comply with European, labour and social standards, of course not. It is one of two key and it is another important that Serbia's employment and workers in Serbia only have a future if this Serbia becomes part of European integration and member of the European Union. They have a good future. There's another future, a bad future. If Serbia is not there, we should remain the appendix of Europe and then it will be a very bad future for all Serbian workers. I think that was important to say here, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11767	Replica, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11768	Ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously where the minister didn't understand me or I didn't understand the minister. The SRS does not object to the introduction of probationary work in the draft law, i.e. into the law. We say that the trial work cannot last longer than three months and that there must be a commission that will determine the professional and working abilities of the candidate performing the trial work, and that this cannot be left to the employer because of the possibility of abuse we have pointed out, because the worker can hold five and more months, and then say - you have not satisfied. Then invite another to the test work, of course the labour supply is huge, the need for jobs is small and everyone will accept. It'll give him a lower salary, so he'll have a cheap workforce, maybe a few years, until he finally decides who it's gonna be. The minister says it is not imperative but that the working contract can also provide for a test work category as a result of a direct agreement between the employer and the worker. Imagine the situation where the employer tells the worker - please insert the trial work as well. He says-- right. Then this guy tells him, can two months, and the worker says, no way, 15 days. The employer agrees with that, but only in fairy tales. So that's what we say, no matter what it's college, on the one hand there's an employer who offers money and wages, and on the other hand a worker who's forced to work to get a profit, and we want to bring them into an equal relationship. The trial work is an employer's interest, but three months is the interest of workers and commissions, which will unbiasedly determine whether the worker fulfils all his obligations, whether he is physically, health, intellectually, in any way capable of performing these tasks. Furthermore, the minister says he does not write anywhere in a member of the law that when he works on probation, the worker will have a lower salary. Is he gonna give him a full-paid trial or is he gonna give him a premium? Maybe in another country, and here at this initial accumulation of capital, in these Muggles that grab, with these other tycoons, there's no such thing, there's no mercy. There's just a hijacker here and he's using it. You see these little children by the jewels they pay. There's always an ad that needs a new worker, needs a new worker. Three months and it's over. He doesn't even pay his salary, he says - you stole something, we dropped profits or some goods disappeared, that's what you have to pay for. That's what I'm talking about, talking about the real world, and the law mentions some ideal conditions. It's not here. After all, if normal conditions were not for Baby Popovic to be free today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11769	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11770	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to Article 53, submitted by Mr. Djordjevic, speaks of overtime and here it is stated that four hours a day is possible for the worker to work overtime, which means a total of 12 hours. I would agree with that if it was hard physical labor. But we have complex systems, like in electricity, where more duty is needed than physical work itself, so I don't think this proposed solution stands, because it says eight hours a week can work overtime, so it wouldn't be consistent with systems like electricity. Also, I would like to appeal to trade unions, first of all I mean unions in the EPS and smaller businesses, I don't mean Chanka and Smiljanic, who are corrupt trade unions and who work for Karic and other companies. I would like to draw attention to them to influence the formation of company statutes and to ensure maximum protection of workers in this regard, especially when it comes to overtime. I will set an example in the electricity industry, where, for example, workers are obliged to get up at any time of the day or night, they are obliged to go out to some interventions and to come to the workplace. Very often they do not pay for this overtime at all, and often they cannot even take the time off to take advantage of the hours done, so they are often dissatisfied and often happens, when they come to call for interventions, they usually send their wife to the door to say they are not at home. We can imagine if there's some kind of hararium that's making some huge amount of money, for some miserable paying a few hours of overtime, that's where the huge mistakes are made. Yesterday, Mr. Secretary mentioned certain crocodiles, who, when swallowing their victims, shed tears. Gentlemen, I really didn't see more crocodiles than I did on the Privatisation Committee, where our tycoons who bought wake-up businesses just come cynicalally, they behave like that, and here come the workers who have over 30 years of work experience in their businesses, who are now left on the street without a piece of bread. They pay, bribe, not to tell who or in which ministry, and thus buy the budget. These are examples of Jugormedia, Gorice and other companies. That's what we'll do when there's a point in the privatisation law, and then we'll go a lot wider on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11771	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11772	There's no minister again. The other one was an extraprofit, so he forgot some of this stuff trade union and labour law. There's one problem, he says -- the character of a working relationship has changed, so it's a clean contractual relationship. It cannot be a clean contractual relationship for a simple reason that the parties are not equal and cannot express their will very freely when the contract is concluded. And because there is awareness of this inequality, this law, among other things, is passed, which channels the will of the employer, and of the rich and the employed, within some of the limits prescribed by law. What again is the lack of this member, that is Article 53. The bill of law, it begins - at the request of the employer. So there's still no general act, and yet there's nothing called an objective condition, yet there's nothing that can be interpreted as a situation that's pre-arranged and envisaged, but a request. It can be a simple will in our terms, a whim, even a chican, because it depends on the will of the employer, regardless of how this employer appeared, whether as the owner, whether as a director or otherwise. What goes further as a drawback is that there are two categories of that overtime. One category is mandatory, and the other is optional, when the employee is obliged, he cannot choose whether he will, whether he will not, but must stay overtime. These are the situations when the surplus occurs. It's a situation that isn't foreseen here. If it can be damages for the employer, when it is mandatory to stay at work, to work longer, so that you simply don't remain a man without being able to come to work tomorrow, to disappear the company, there is great damage in the technological process, economic problems, for nothing, that he insisted that he shouldn't work overtime. He lost the material base that he will come to work tomorrow, and this law does not predict it, but leaves everything – let's go to contract. On the contract, as if we didn't exist, it wasn't as if there was a situation with us that for the past ten, fifteen, so maybe twenty years the companies opened up people who didn't know at that time to fill out a general payment to pay the tax. They should now interpret here what is behind every word, how every word should be interpreted, what it represents in time and space. This is a fundamental drawback, and this is about grammar and spelling, which is not about this amendment, but just wants to make a point, that restrictions on the length of overtime at the weekly and daily level should apply to the specific individual, to the person employed as an individual. He can't work for days and always work five or six hours longer than regular work. To tell you the truth, you're free of this provision, when the current law requires full-time work, so employees have to go on Saturdays and Sundays, so somehow they count on a spoon and you rest in the day, Sunday vacations, and then it really seems degutant to talk about some new level of protection of employees' rights, and practice shows us that there's no protection provided in what's minimum. Do not always refer to the IOR conventions and EU directives when you are not sure that what you have stated in the bill reflects the content of these acts. We've only got one prank like this. The explanation says, it's in agreement with that and the team, and when you take that convention and look at what it says and what it's supposed to say here, you see that these are two texts that are opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11773	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 57 of the amendment, MP Goran Jaksic was tabled by the Government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, who did not accept the amendment, and the Legislative Committee believes that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Stevica Dedjanski. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the amendment that I have submitted, I ask to limit who can be fired and under what conditions, where workers under 18 are mentioned, etc. The explanation was given, therefore, as an explanation of why it is rejected, that in some alleged member of the law it is regulated, and I would not now quote correctly, I don't know by heart, but I think, anyway, despite that explanation, there is a legitimate fear and fear that it will not apply, so I don't see why it was a problem to put it in law as a special point. Knowing and having experience in the past about the carelessness that has taken place with people who are employed, another additional insurance would not be bad and therefore I suggest that the amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11775	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11776	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in addition to the so many insurmountable sentences contained in this bill, sentences that do not belong in these members, so stubbornly do not allow the adoption of an amendment that will clarify, which will contribute to making the law a little bit better, I see no reason to do so. In fact, Article 60 states: "The redistribution of working time cannot be done on jobs where part-time has been introduced, in accordance with Article 52 of this Law. "In front of the SRS parliamentary club, MP Mr. Stevica Dedjanski is asking for Article 60 to add Article 2 which reads: "To an employee under the age of 18, pregnant and pre-school child parents cannot be redistributed." The member of the law is fine and will be complete only if we adopt this amendment in the voting day and add item 2. In the end, just another remark related to one of the previous discussions, when Bogoljub Karic was said to steal MPs. Gentlemen, Bogoljub Karic stole and stole himself, and now he can buy and buy MPs. I have already marked some of the MPs who will soon sign a contract to work with Bogoljub Karic and move on to his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11777	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 62nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11778	Dear MPs, on behalf of the SPS, my colleague Petronijevic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 62, which concerns night work and shift work. We have suggested that the position of the third member of the law be amended. Allow me, I will read, in the very proposal of this law, that the employer is obliged to request the opinion of the Union on the safety and health measures of night workers. We have suggested that the 3rd position be changed and that the solution in the law be: "The employer is obliged to request the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the Union on the safety and health measures of the employees who perform their work at night." We considered it necessary, of course and celery, that the ministries responsible for work, i.e. health, give their opinion on safety and health measures, therefore, on work under difficult conditions. I must say that the argument of the Government, or the Ministry of Justice, is strange to me, because the argument, or position of the Government, is called upon in the draft law that the Assembly has yet to discuss, and when it will be discussed, of course, not known, and it is so strange that they confirm in the explanation that both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health should give their own court, but they are calling for solutions from some other law that is not valid. Thus, the promoter gives for the right of fellow Petronivic and I believe that this amendment is good and that it should be adopted, a team before it is called for by some law, because you know the way the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia works yourself, this law will be passed very quickly, and when this possible law on safety and health at work will be on the agenda of the National Assembly, it is objectively few who can know at the moment. In any case, even with this argument, the Proposer gave the SPS MPs the right to propose a good solution, which relates to night work in shifts and I think they themselves confirmed the need for this amendment to be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11779	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. You asked for a word, please. I apologize, Brance Stojanović, and then Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11780	Mr. Zarko Obradovic explained the amendment that he and Mr. Misa Petronijevic proposed regarding Article 62 and, believe me, it is not understandable that this argument of the Government that the amendment is not accepted for reasons why adequate protection of employees from night work will be laid down in the draft safety and health law at work. I really don't know this moment, maybe when we get that safety and health bill proposal, maybe my discussion will be groundless, but this time we don't have it. I want to point out one fact. There are union representatives. There may be a representative of the metal branch among them. I'm going to say one phenomenon that is present at the moment, say, at the company U.S. Steel. It's the company that the previous Democratic Party regime, under still unverified conditions, sold to U.S. Steel and the fact that it is now, I think union representatives know. Due to the very difficult situation in which workers are generally, including workers in this company, the employer very often suggests, and because of the difficult situation, workers accept, that they practically continue working from one shift to another, so it often comes from the second shift to the third, and many times it becomes fatal for the workers. There has been an increase in cases where workers get sick by doing these difficult jobs, and I think this amendment, which has been submitted by the Socialist Party, namely on behalf of the Socialist Party Dr. Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic, is meaningful and important, where we are looking for, we demand, because we do not know what kind of safety law will be, which we still do not have, to ask for the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the trade unions on safety and health measures of employees working at night. I say, this is a concrete example and a case, where very often workers even work on a night shift, because of a very difficult situation, and unfortunately many times accidents happen. That is why I propose, since the minister is not here, that fellow Members think about this and possibly accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11781	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11782	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I worked for ten years at night. So Dr Dragisa Misovic's Centre of Medicine has organized a job so it's done for 24 hours. In the facility, the largest number of special service medical workers also worked at night. There are entire professions whose employment is exclusively related to night work. Not to mention now, apart from working at night, some of them work in extremely difficult, inappropriate conditions. So, in a cold space, no physical security, and I have to say without adequate material compensation. It was before that night's work was considered a time of 22 hours at night to 0.5 and 0.6 in the morning, depending on how anyone calculated it, and that pays 30% for nighttime work, which is really inadequate compensation, but we have to say that we had a state, whatever anyone thought of it, in which some things were arranged. Now I'm not dealing with employers like the state, like health institutions, big systems. There, however, things are arranged, both in accordance with the law and in accordance with the acts that regulate this area. Now I'm talking about those people who are forced to work at night, without any conditions, without being able to refuse that job and without being able to seek any protection with anyone. I remind you, I also warned the minister one day about the circumstances, three per cent of legal employees in Serbia are only members of the union. For some of the employers today in Serbia is a provocation if employees ask for a union. If that's what they're asking for more intensely, then they risk getting fired. We today have such an ambience, unfortunately, and it is our obligation that all those who organise the work process continuously 24 hours or only at night, under special circumstances do so, and our amendment goes to the fact that the competent ministry and other competent authorities are very much asking when these things are concerned. There's a whole series of other things. I can say that today in Serbia there is in every kiosk, in every bar on the street called a bookie, or as it is called, unfortunately there are several tens of thousands of people in Serbia. If you find one who has an extra night's work, it's an honor. So we're attending a classic exploitation. We call on union representatives to consider this circumstance. We ask union representatives to engage further, animate people who are employed in private businesses, make people join the union. We don't say which union, the one that's most interesting to these people. But when there is no union, when there are no clear procedures, when there are no legal tools that can protect people while working at night, they are the object of abuse and the object of classical exploitation. That's why it would be good for you to support this amendment, to accept it, and all of us to advocate not endangering employers' rights. We want strong employers, but we want employers who get the legal framework to behave in accordance with the law, not to exploit people, not to abuse their difficult situation and that the price of wages is not such that people can practically not survive. Of course, it's not easy to organize a company or anything about it. I don't want in any way to hurt a large number of serious people who today have serious private companies in Serbia, who operate in accordance with the law. I can name some, but that's not my job. There are several such cases in Chačka, where workers have a warm meal, where they have organized transportation, where they have prescribed HTZ equipment, where they have paid night work, but unfortunately these companies are the exception, and what I'm talking about is the rule. Our task is to be vice versa, to the greatest possible extent to protect people who work at night, because there are occupations such as bakers, such as cliffs, such as night watchmen, such as medical workers, such as many others, who practically spend most of their working days working at night. There is no material compensation that can adequately resolve it. (President: Time. I thank you. Nor is there anything else that can help, that they're separated from family, that they don't sleep at night, that their biological timeline changes, etc. That's why I invite you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11783	Does anyone else want to talk about the same amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 62 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Glisic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11784	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment of counterpart Darko Glisic refers to Article 62(3), where it is proposed that the employer is obliged to seek the opinion of the Union on safety and health measures at night at work, and the proposal of fellow Members Darko Glisic, submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, is to add words - to seek the opinion of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. It is amazing that this amendment has not been accepted, because the powers of the Ministry of Labour are well known and it is really necessary for the employer to have the consent of his respective ministry in the introduction of nighttime work. No matter how much I was respected by employers who deserve to be respected, who said just now that my colleague Baralić has enough and thank God he has, it is also the fact that even more employers abuse employees in various ways. There was a lot of talk yesterday about what's going on and what employers' relationship with employees is, and what does someone who thinks he's the boss because they have 20, 15 employees, and if these employees won't protect this parliament through good law, then I don't see who they can still complain about their status. That is why the argument given by the government, which is why no amendment to Darko Glisic has been accepted, is at the very least insulting the intelligence and diploma of all graduate lawyers in this hall and in the country of Serbia. It says in its explanation, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that adequate protection of employees from night work is laid down in the draft safety and health laws at work. This is amazing. I wouldn't write this by any freshman at law school. What about the bill? Will he ever see this congregation? Will this congregation pass this law? Whether or not there will be a congregation in this assembly until the debate on this law, whether or not there will be a government in this congregation. This is amazing, and it reminds me a lot of me about that time in 2001 and 2002, when Gašo Knezevic talked about one law and said, and all the newspapers wrote about it, it is a law that has not yet been passed, whether so, Krasic, did not come into force, but applied. The law that Gašo Knezevic applied at the time, which he applied when Professor Vojislav Seselj was expelled from the Faculty of Law, has not been brought in today. Imagine that the serious professional legal public has accepted this layman's opinion of Gaša Knezevic and that all these years we are all talking about applying a law that has not been passed. You have done the exact same thing with this proposal, this explanation of the amendment to Article 62. How can you be entitled to a bill, how sure you are that what is in the bill, and even to come to the Assembly, which is guaranteed that what the Government is proposing, will be accepted here. Are you, gentlemen of the congregation majority, the government's service? I think it's supposed to be the other way around. You've got something wrong with the pots. They've done the same before you. It would have been much better and more correct if the government had said, this is a good amendment, but we have no idea to accept it, which is what the amendment proposed by Serbian radicals will do to us. This is your pain, which is obvious that we, Serbian radicals, are proposing amendments that really contribute to improving the legal text, which really contribute, when it comes to labour law, better employment situation, security of employees. That's what we're trying to explain to you, and what you, hiding behind some directives, are trying to ignore. Just to point out, we don't mind, and we didn't even touch it. Night's work needs to be asked for the union's opinion. And just to make sure Mr. Markovic's there, he is. This is personal to you, Mr. Markovic, yesterday I received information that you deceived the public when you welcomed the union representatives who are following this work, and they told me that they are representatives of only one union and that they are asking you nicely, you know who you allowed to be in this room, and to tell me which union it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11785	Thank you. So, I said today, specifically, which is a union, and of course it's one union, because I only gave permission to one union and only one union asked for it, and they participated in the work and preparation, and that's what the minister informed the other trade unions about. So it's about the accent. So, I welcome the representatives of the union, that one. Thank you. According to the same amendment – we have already said today, Independently, we have waved multiple times to each other, of course – here you go, Mr Markovic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11786	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since this amendment is necessary to be incorporated into the law, and since the government is about to be disgusted with the amendments submitted by Serbian radicals, I have a proposal that Mr Darko Glisic, the MP, give up this amendment, and that the government proposes it in the same way as its amendment. If we stop for two minutes and this amendment is passed, so that the law with that amendment - here, we give up that amendment if you adopt it - finally looks like something. The fact is that in 95% of the cases, we have a situation today in Serbia of the original accumulation, and everyone who reads the political economy will probably remember what, so I don't have to inform you, but I can explain later in the break to what that's about. For an employer in a case like this, it's all expenses, and a worker, and he doesn't see a person in that worker. The worker, on the other hand, is forced to take his labour force as a commodity to the market, to the supply and demand system, since you have made a great deal of effort in these four years to make the labour force offer far greater than demand. The labour price is dropping, and I don't see why the ministry and the government are trying so hard to turn down any possibility of getting into the protection of workers. The amendment by MP Darko Glisic requires that, in addition to the union's opinion, the position of the ministry in charge on the matter is mandatory, in addition to the opinion of the union, on night work. I don't see what it is that makes you so barbarously defend yourself against any obligation to protect workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you who think with your head, in voting day, I suppose you'll press the green button and adopt this amendment, because those of us who expect us to protect them with this amendment at least a little bit to help and facilitate working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11787	I ask the People's Messengers no longer to offer what is other people's. Here you go, Mr. Djordjevic, according to the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11788	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, and in the case of a member of 62, the nature of this law can be seen. In an explanation of why the government did not accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, namely our MP, Dark Glisic, the government said this was because the proper protection of employees from night work was established in the proposal for a safety and health law at work. That's what my colleague explained nicely. The proposal is one thing, that law has not been passed. According to this proposal, employees can refuse work at night if, according to the assessment of the medical service, such work could worsen its health status and address the labour inspection. This participation of the competent health authority - labour inspections has provided greater protection for employees. "This system of protection of employees in the event of night work is in line with Directive 93/104 of the European Union (Article 11.) under which the employer is obliged to provide a notice of regular nighttime work to the competent national authority only at its request." Why did I emphasize the word "notification"? What is particularly important and what I want to point out is that the government did not exactly make recommendations to honour the recommendations of the IOC. The fact is, it's one notice, and the other is if you're looking for an opinion. He says the employer in position 2 is obliged to request the union's opinion on safety and health measures for working at night. Very interesting, how the government explained why the SRS amendment refuses. The essence of the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Darko Glisic, who submitted the amendment to Article 62(3), is to add behind the words "thinking" the words " Ministers of Labour, Employment and Social Policy". It is necessary for the employer to request the opinion and the Ministry of Labour when initiating night work. The point is, there would be no abuse. Opinions are not binding, that is clear, and employers do not take too much account of the union's opinion. It's always been and it will be. A member must be added to the employer's obligation to request an opinion, first of all, from the competent ministry. This would avoid these manipulations that employers can apply, which are already present in businesses. In the end, we would respect the recommendations of the MOR, so that what you gave in the explanation doesn't stand. Since Mr. Minister is not here, in his presentation, when he spoke of previous members of the law he defended, on our amendments that we submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, he said it was important, first of all, to protect the interests of employees, and finally to employers, and then to bring the law into line with European legislation. If, as the minister said in his statement, it were, in the reasons for the adoption of the labour law, to first state what is most important: protection of employees' interests, protection of employers' interests. When it comes to the basic objectives that are to be achieved by adopting this law, you first stated here: "the consistent application of the European Union directive in this area". Also, in this reason for the law to be passed and for this first reason that you have stated you see nature and the way you want to pass this law. So the bill, which you submitted to the National Assembly, will not protect the employees. That's the essence of your proposal. He will partially resolve and perhaps repair this previous law, which is in force, which has been brought by DS, which reigned three years before the formation of your ruling majority in this assembly. (President: Time. ) The point is that today we do not have any former government MPs to say anything about this bill. So, the fact is that we in the SRS wanted to try to adapt this law and correct it in a way that would solve this legislation in the interest, above all, of all citizens of Serbia. That is the primary objective of the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-03-0.u11789	Since the current electronic system shows that there is no quorum, please check that there is a quorum. I ask the Members to insert their parliamentary cards into the electronics units. I find that, by applying the electronic system, there is currently no quorum for work, that not all MPs who are in constant work in the Assembly are present here, and therefore I interrupt today's session. Continuing Monday at 10.00 hours.
