ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11123	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon, we continue the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 115 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Vesna Obradović, Goran Knezevic and Natasa Micic; Aleksandar Lazarevic and Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić (before noon). We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: –PROVAL OF THE LAW (contegrating in principle) The word has the People's MP Sava Urosevic, and let the MP Natasa Jovanovic be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Urosevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11124	Dear President, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important system law, the railway law, which will best lay the groundwork for solving a major problem in Serbia, and that is the problem of the railways. To figure out how big a problem this is, I'm going to get some information on the current state of our railways. Before that, I would say that one of Serbia's biggest resources is its geographical position, and hence the road network, i.e. the traffic network, which includes roads that are in relatively decent condition and whose condition has been significantly improved in recent years, as well as railways that have been experiencing a fall over the past few years. At the moment, Serbian railways have an external debt of about 400m euros. Internal debt has been reduced to 1.4 billion dinars in recent years. The situation in Serbian railways also illustrates well that subsidies from the budget for Serbian rail lines are 8.5 billion, representing a total of one quarter of all subsidies that go from the budget to the Serbian economy. For comparison, it is illustrating and the fact that the entire economy, I say, is going five billion subsidies from the budget, and only for the rails 8.5 billion. The percentage of the reduction in subsidies is about 16% when the 2005 budget is seen compared to 2004, and the railways have a negligible reduction from 8.7 billion to eight and a half billion. One of the major problems in Serbian railways today is the number of people employed, between 26 and 27 thousand, and the restructuring plan envisions leaving 3,800 people in 2005. In the part of rail traffic, the problem is that we do not have enough means of transport. Here, from this pay phone, we have had the opportunity to hear the fact that our railway is one of the few that has a very high percentage of the use of means of transport, we even have a problem with the fact that Serbian railways have an insufficient number of wagons, so they are forced to rent cars to meet the needs of international traffic through corridor 10, i.e. on railways passing through Serbia. The transport situation is very bad. The locomotives are up to 30 years old on average, and the wagons are 26 years old, a road network, or a railway network is even older. If we sum up this situation in one sentence, then we can say that Serbian railways currently have low quality transport services, high operating costs, huge losses and inadequate organisation. A good basis for repairing the situation is the law that lies ahead. And this law should create conditions for the separation of infrastructures from rail transport, for the emergence of multiple carriers, which would allow competition, and thus raise the level of services and lower the price of these services. I would not talk about the details of this law, but what is also important and what I want to point out is that the moment this law enters into force and the railway infrastructure is separated from rail transport, conditions are created that parts of the railway network, which are not directly connected to highway routes, to corridors, can also be maintained by local self-government. For some railways, for which the state has no interest in maintaining them, there may be interest in local self-government and they may become an active entity in the maintenance and exploitation of these railways. G17 plus thinks this is a good, reform, modern law and will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11125	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic, and let the MP Aleksandar Vlahovic be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, although this is one of the so-called longtime announcements. system laws, we know that he is now in preparation, although in a somewhat altered form, came at the time of the former DOS furniture, when from that period the favorite minister of Mr Velje Ilic, Marija Raseta-Vukosavljevic, carried out the preparation of such a law. The law is something that is mostly prescribed and gives guidance dictated by the European Union, and Mr Ilic himself said yesterday that our railway transport is slow, exceeded, and that we should catch the last train to the European Union. If we want to talk about it when we jump into a car, then think, at least according to what the European Union officials say, about 2024, and by then some will be able to jump, some will go with the help of a stick, some will be in good shape, but in any case, it's a long way back in 2024. The law itself aims to change something fundamentally, especially when it comes to the complete restructuring of such a railway as it is, but it will not be, and Minister Ilic himself knows it, neither simple nor easy. Because the law, in itself, is as it is written, with the acceptance of everything that is wanted to be accepted by the European Union directive, in many of its segments, and that it is inapplicable to the very financial bad and ruined Yugoslav railways, especially when it is in mind, and that data was precisely presented yesterday by Mr Stamenkovic, as it went from 1990 to 2004 only when they were employed. What bothers me the most as an SRS MP at the moment, and especially the people who work on the railways, is what happens to them in the further discharge process, because this law has not properly defined a social programme for people who are going to lose their jobs. You know, Mr. Ilich, people who are engineers, messengers or those who do that so-called. The executive part, that target group in our railway building in Germany called a rubber building, because those who are administrators move in there all the time, so the number goes from 2,000 to 3,000. Some even tend to say that there are even 4,000 employees there, let's not overdo it, and they've all secured themselves some positions, and what about one Lapov, where 50% of the male population is working on the railroad. Now they have to ask themselves, like at the time when there was the layoff of workers at the flag, how they'll when they're out of work, where they're going and what they're going to do. Their work experience is on average 25 to 30 years old, they just do it, dispatchers, engineers, car searchers, all their lives doing it. Inherited from father, from grandfather, from railroad families and have nothing else to do. This social programme has not been well done, and you have not paid particular attention to disabled people who are employed on the railways. There was a rumor, and that information was brought out by the management of the people in our railroad, that it was so-called. The transition fund that was supposed to finance most of the social programme last year was 280 million, if I'm not mistaken, dinars, and I think I'm right, that figure is close to 300 million. Suddenly it turns out that there's no such thing as money and it hasn't even started to happen. You're now saying, otherwise the whole situation in which the former DOS government was in, and this one is now yours, with this collection of the majority and agreement from law to law, from the frequent threats of those who support you, really reminds me of those scenes from the famous orientation of the express, and you never know whose head it is and how it's going to end, in a political sense, whether it's going to stay with the minister or not. But if the matter is serious, and she really is, the biggest problem is actually going to be after the adoption of this law, because I believe that you have provided most of it, that the restructuring process will be carried out. What employees are looking for and what the government is obliged to provide in response, and you as a resolute minister, is how a programme of financial consolidation of the railway will be done at the moment. It's the same case with the flag, it's the car industry, it's the railways. If that giant doesn't somehow financially help and recover there, if it isn't done here with the railroad, it won't be attractive to foreign investors and bidders, probably. They want for Austrians who have new equipment, new locomotives, passenger cars to start from Vienna, and they're going to Athens with that corridor 10, and what are we going to do for these so-called. secondary and regional. You know, by the year 2000, the state was about 3% out of sales tax, I think 3%, for rail financing, and that ended with DOS coming into power. Now if the restructuring process is to be entered, then the state must clearly determine and say what is expected of the railways in the overall traffic system of our country. This isn't once, so, always, we've passed the law, we've put an end to it, and we'll keep working on it. In highly developed countries, for example, with their railways, like France, along with those remarks that you made at the privatisation of the railroad in Great Britain, but let's say we take the French as an example, the ones that we've ever gone there and rode the French trains, we know how it works. Let's just say that every year they correct something in their business system and they always want to do better, but, of course, they have huge support for the state. So defining the importance and regional routes is something that is very important. It wasn't just enough that the law introduced the possibility that local self-government units could use those local routes, because here I'll tell you, and nothing changed from that period when we were under sanctions. Almost 10 years ago, he didn't joke, but seriously from this pay phone, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, who you all know is impressed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, today the most popular politician in the country, said that small children who live near a train station in Kragujevac when they see a railway locomotive think they've passed an iron horse. It's really not a joke, but it is, because from that Danish royal train and from the fact that we have very inert and passenger and transport rail traffic, we still haven't moved away. That's why it's a key issue for the government and for you as Minister of Capital Investments to tell us, and therefore tell people who work in the railway before the restructuring process, what the state is willing to do. If we, like that SRJ, Mr. Ilic, have spent years in the budget, which, at the address of Radoj Kontic, what were those other prime ministers of the then federal government, each year in the federal budget, allocated huge funds for the remonting of the works of the Podgorica-Rožaje railway that has not worked since 1966, then tell us since the lesson is clear what the Government of the Republic of Serbia will do for both the Banat area and the royal region, and for the Loznik region, how they will encourage, units of local self-government, to engage in what the original law now allows them. The time that the SRS parliamentary group has, unfortunately, does not allow me to talk about this anymore, I will talk about the amendments of my colleagues, but these are actually key issues, not what has only been defined by law, with the adoption of the EU directive. Because even with the adoption of all their adopted directives and France, both Great Britain and Germany, in accordance with their capabilities and with the state of their railways, they correct and the laws, and their governments are adopting regulations to improve this. The overall economic situation in a country that is completely ruined, because every day we have daily losses of nearly $500,000 due to our economy's failure to function, does not give us much opportunity for optimism when it comes to investing in Serbia's railways, and in fact that's what they're looking for, that the state actively participates in the financial consolidation programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11127	The word is by MP Aleksandar Vlahovic. He's not here. (Milovan Markovic, from the post: I will replace him. How can you replace him? I don't understand. We can try to delay later if he shows up. The word has a folk MP, Radisa Ilic, and let MP Velimir Simonovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11128	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today's draft law on railways. Given the funds that are allocated from the budget, outdated machinery and the immersion of infrastructure, it is a wonder how the railway works today. The only conclusion is that people employed in the Serbian railways are making the most of their efforts to somehow contribute to normal rail traffic. In rail traffic, there are two continents that are interdependent, which are the infrastructure manager, that is, the part that works to maintain traffic and traffic regulation, and the carrier, that is, the part that is responsible for the transport of passengers and goods. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, local self-government has now appeared for the first time as a possible user of infrastructure. Isn't this a way to get some of the employees off the rail budget and impose on the poor local self-government anyway? Here it is probably meant for local railways, or industrial track, which supply industrial facilities in the territory of municipalities. On these tracks there is an extremely low traffic frequency, so a certain fee for their use would be left to local self-government, in return for Serbia to be relieved of maintenance costs. As regards the infrastructure manager, Article 10 shows that this law provides for the licensing of all those who fulfil those conditions for its maintenance. With what our railways have, that is, the part that works to maintain railway infrastructure can never be measured with the equipment of the funds, and I would say to the finances of a perhaps foreign competitor, who could take over the job after meeting the conditions. Again, a question is raised that is likely to be imposed, which is a large number of unemployed workers, without being able to work on their jobs so far. Speaking of rail infrastructure, I would like to say a few words about its protection, more specifically in Section VII, is mentioned in the draft law of Article 46, which defines the protection belt. This article provides for a ban on building buildings, installation and devices at a distance of 25 metres from the railway. In view of the fact that railway lines are categorized in three groups, namely: highway, regional and local, this member will cause major problems with the owner of the crying and parcels in the safety belt during his application. As for the bus tracks, where the traffic frequency is high and where international trains traffic, it is normal and necessary to prohibit any construction up to 25 meters away. For regionals, like for example. Stalac - Požega, or for local railways, it is absolutely not enforceable, it is difficult to realise and will cause major clashes with the owners of the railways, unless the Ministry solves thousands of complaints, as written in the last position of this member. It is known that, for example, local railways, buildings and facilities of private persons, i.e. the owner of the crying, were raised outside the spring belt at six meters, or outside the settlement at eight meters. If the owner now wants to build on the same salary, and where his entire household is, some auxiliary building or house, he won't be able to do it. You usurped his right to build on his private property or if anyone wants to and can sell the crying to a person, he won't be able to now. And who will compensate these people for such material damage by making it impossible to sell at the right market price. This is an observation given to me by the people who work on the railways, and at the responsible functions, on the maintenance of the traffic station, which will soon face this problem. Here's an example, a local railway between Paracino and Popovac, more specifically the cement factories in Popovac, in the length of 12 kilometers, passes through five populated places. Hundreds of them in every place will suffer directly for such a legal solution. Keep this article in mind, it will cause you great problems and damages. Think of the number of local and regional railways in Serbia and how much revolt it will cause with our citizens. The law also deals with the safety of the transport of passengers and goods. I am most interested in how to organise safe traffic at the part of the railway infrastructure for which the public undertaking has no economic interest, which is given to the local self-government unit for use and management. If by chance there's an accident, an accident, an accident, an ecological incident, it'll be the municipality that pays for the damage. These damages are huge, so literally the municipalities will go bankrupt. Serbia must reconstruct its rail network of traffic, but how; whether by giving hidden concessions to individual monopolies on the side of rail infrastructure management, or transport, and this seems to be all at the threshold of the achievement. Fast stripes wait for them to pass through Serbia, but it looks like we're not going to build them. Serbia's railway is in bad shape. Some time ago, waiting for a spring pass at the entrance to Jagodina, I was amazed when I was waiting for the train to pass the video of a real litigator, a few decades old. It's just a reflection of the real picture and the opportunities of what the railroad expects and how big investment will be to modernize and change all this. You have to do everything to do what needs to be done in the railways and to do our companies, our businesses and our workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11129	Thank you. The People's MP Velimir Simonovic has the word, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Verica Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11130	Ladies and gentlemen, we've heard a lot about this law since yesterday and this morning, and since I'm a member of the Traffic and Connection Committee, I've already made a statement there about the law, as well as about amendments to the law, and I'm not going to repeat anything from what's been said here on your part. I want to look back at the work of the railroad from a completely different point of view. In fact, 10 or more years ago, given the circumstances, I had the opportunity to travel to summer and winter semesters, once a week, on the route to Belgrade - Uzice, as well as some other professors from some Belgrade universities that had then departments in Uzic. We've noticed strange things. It was clear to all of us that the railways had no money at the time and could not buy new cars, but it was not clear to us why these wagons were so terribly dirty, the halls, the windows unwielded, the faulty, could not be opened and closed, not to mention the toilet rooms, it was not in those wagons at all. All that takes is a simple workforce, a bucket of water, a broom, a sponge, or at least some thruster, and all that to be as-so-so in a decent order. The situation was such that it was simply humiliating for civilized people to travel on our rails. On the Committee, I was a little convinced by the representatives of the railway that it was no longer such a situation and that something had improved, but I still don't believe that these words of mine have become quite that old. There's gonna be a chance I might be traveling by rail again, so we'll see to what extent that's improved. So we're going to pass the law, and he's been praised here by many that he's very good, etc. But what's it worth if the minister doesn't manage to get the executives on the railroad to seduce the railroad, to work and be responsible for the job, because the railroad is all over the world, so to speak, a semi-military organization. There must be great order and discipline. We can't justify this dissatisfaction with the fact that the railroads are underpaid, we know they're underpaid. If it works better, with more discipline and if the quality of passenger traffic services is increased, it is likely that their material position will be improved. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11131	Thank you. The People's Messenger, the Prophet of Radeta, is not here. The People's Messenger Zoran Krasic has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Milka Silaiev. Here you go, Mr. Krassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11132	Obviously, it is a mixed order of moves and that this bill does not meet the basic conditions to be found on the agenda of this National Assembly session. Why doesn't he meet the basic conditions? Because this bill has no reasons, because all that is stated in the first page is about good wishes, goals, efforts, efforts and something that might look like reasons, and it is contained in the low quality of transport services, high operating costs, huge losses and inadequate organisation of the system. I have to say that none of these questions that are mentioned here are solved by the bill. There is no law that can increase productivity, reduce losses, as well as good wishes and praises at the expense of some law does not mean that as soon as that law is passed, we will have 500 km of speed on our railways tomorrow. The second thing that's listed as a reason, and probably that's the main reason, is that the loan was promised, which is probably some money, so that should somehow be justified. If that's the only reason, and I'm saying it's the only reason, then this law is missed. Since you listed low quality transport services, high operating costs and so on, let me give you some things that this law will not solve. This law won't solve the problem of that building in Germany, and someone said, they call it rubber. They say he receives 1,500 to 2,000, and someone says 4,000 employees. The people on the railroad know, they say, God forbid they all come to work, that building would fail. I'm really interested in why the people of the Ministry of Capital Investment didn't bring in one order, so they could order their member, the director of this company, to forward the order that no director, boss, manager or anyone in that railway system can take the official route by passenger car, but must take the train. So if he goes to Doljevac, have the director get on the train, and then go to Doljevac, and measure whether he's going 120, 20, 40, where he's driving, where he's driving fast, where there's more rocks being thrown into the reconstruction, and then 20 centimeters of tracks and so on. Of course, let him see what Professor Simonovic said, whether windows are washed or windows are washed. So that's one problem that needs to be cleared up. Another problem that needs to be cleared up in our railroad, so that's this 10%. If you at the Ministry don't know that every bill pays a fee to someone there, then you don't have to sit in these benches. So, 10% it's a fully legalized tax. Furthermore, the railroad has now provided some 1,480,000 trucks, which is cheap, but the factory price is 1,300,000, and a thousand euros have been taken; and who; someone in this building. And don't you come from this building that's just a waste, and it's a great cost, to compare it to the spring workers and the others who work on the railroad. If you claim that this law will bring good results, then I ask you to take a walk to the train station, tell that sender of business, when this law is passed, there won't be 10% of the "tire building", because "tire building" will split up and you can move everything into that solitre at Makish, you can transfer the whole railroad there. Explain to them who's out of a job and who gets a job. Explain to them what's going to happen to those rusty cars at every train station. Your reasons, loss reduction, efficiency, better business organization and so on. You are now on the route of Belgrade - Mladenovac, I don't know, 40 or 50 km if it goes, and it's almost renovated, heavy money is given. Next, you're talking about developing our industry, that's not true. I don't want to mention those wagons for Brazil for leaving, leaving the Kobajagi. You won't help. At the time of the sanctions, we had about 100 electrolocomotives that were in operation, and now between 60 and 80 if there were any, that's good. Check out that business with Radet Končar, that's where you paid 800,000, let there be euros or marks, some reconstruction, and you did some computer system, and you just talked here about how the new one cost two and a half million. Check out who put the job on hold, check out those business deals with Romania, which are why DOS criticised the previous government. If you hadn't inherited those stripes from China, you didn't buy any stripes, you didn't buy one rail. To solve this law won't, this is throwing dust in your eyes. Formite, you're supposed to be heading towards the market economy, so now one public firm has to run rails, to traffic, to regulate traffic, and this other one to market, so let anyone who has a locomotive meet the conditions, run on our tracks. I don't know what bright mind could have come up with. In this country, I don't believe there are three private locomotives. What state they're in, I don't think anyone knows. If you pass this law, you'll have half your railway to shut down, you don't have Makish in this law, because he's neither infrastructure nor transportation, he's not, not only that, and he'll probably be on the basis of those last provisions to be some dependent enterprise within this new company that you're supposed to be making, I mean a public company. You will probably put it on, probably because of lower labour costs, and locomotives and wagons will be serviced in Romania, Croatia, Macedonia. These capacities that were purposely built because of our railroad, they're gone. You have special systems regarding railways, special companies dealing with problems, and these problems are related to disabled work, so you have graphic activity, tourist activity, so that I don't order further, because the railway is a big system and you don't see them. I think you've chosen the wrong path. If your idea was to allow private transporters to use our infrastructure, compete with their quality and influence existing railway public enterprises, then the ministry should have taken over those powers and powers, therefore, to prevent the abuse of the ZTP monopoly against those carriers. At this first stage, it would be a revolutionary venture by the government. You didn't choose that path, you chose the path by throat into strawberries. Two public enterprises will have, perhaps more, perhaps even more when faced with a problem that will inevitably open up after this. This law has no investment, no direct or indirect, this law means that only a partial interest will be achieved and that of a small number of people, mostly from this "tire building" and perhaps some who enter this business to provide a locomotive, therefore, to deal with the transport of these things. What you're talking about is some ramps, overloading stuff, then a truck on a train, so go, don't say that, please, no one will take it seriously in this country. Simply, economic and material conditions don't allow, it's a great luxury for us. You heard from our MPs' discussion, you secure that decent transport, because the railway is a state's concern, it has to be a state's concern, the state has to jump in, but the state has to provide an organization with as little resources to achieve as effective as possible. The railroad is a big system and should allow for the development of the entire metal complex. Besides, what do you need from your railroad school when you're a scholarship student and you don't hire any of them to work on the railroad? They're being re-received here on the side of a kinship, not even the faces that you've scholarshipd to go to school on purpose, because the railroad is a specific system, it has its own completely independent regulations, its standards, its normative. It's known to detail, from the screw to how much one locomotive can be exploited, and when it goes for reconstruction. I'm not opening that topic because you have a lot of locomotives that have run out of time and all the norms have been exceeded, and today they're being used. So, get down on the ground and solve the railroad problem. The government is authorized, you have the Law on Public Enterprises, you have the opportunity to have a majority on the board of directors of the ZTP, and your responsibility is ultimately because the government is exercising property rights. Organize this railway gradually, step by step, to put it into normal function. This kind of epochal laws that don't mean anything, believe me, this law doesn't mean anything, because before this law, the railroad started to regulate some of its relationships and, of course, came to a wall where it's supposed to be a media law to edit something, and then they'd all be scared out there, so they'd say -- well, the law's been passed, we have to fire, we have to cut back. Don't do this because the railroad is a complicated system, you take care of the safety of the passengers. It's a good thing this law is not about passenger safety in that technical and professional part, it's already regulated by another regulation. If you think that the issue of railways can be solved on the principles of how other areas are being solved, by forming an independent regulatory body, it's one flossula that has been listening here for four years, so we've had broadcasting advice and some other advice, like a step towards a full market economy, equality on the market, etc. The railroad can't do that. In your bill of law, you form a special directorate, you give jurisdiction to the ministry, and you give even jurisdiction to the government. To ask anyone who did this law why the Government determines the categorization of roads, and it does not do any of those jobs that you listed in articles 79 and 78 for the Railway Directorate. Why? You didn't want to pay attention to the two amendments we submitted to you. One concerns Article 79 and the other is Article 80. We tried to help you and tell you what should be the responsibility of the ministry responsible for traffic operations, and what should be the jurisdiction of the railway company "Serb Railways". If you were to focus a little bit to see what's written, you'd see that these two amendments are consistent with some of the intensities you're pushing in the previous members. And for you now, this company that you run as a management company, a railway infrastructure manager, because it's a public enterprise, and now and in the future, it's going to do these same jobs, the exact same jobs. You just pulled the carrier out. Since you want to secure the alleged competition through the carrier, as if on the railway we only have a car problem, a locomotive, and we don't have a problem with the infrastructure, as you call it the bottom and upper machine used, without which there is no railway. That part you can't regulate, that part takes money. In addition, many railways are built here by voluntary work, and now if someone thinks they're pulling some jobs out of a public enterprise, making some new organization, I must warn you that this law will not do us any good. This law won't fix the situation on the railroad. This law won't wash the windows on the wagons. This law will be another cover for maybe 500 people in the railroad, and these are the ones that are immutable. As power changes, they stay. Whether they're in the security sector now, whether they're for the procurement, whether they're for the commercial, whether they're the main maintenance, they're the same people that are spinning. Every year they change two three card cards of political parties. There's someone new on the side to sort out the situation, they're flying it from all sides and they're telling him -- you're young, you don't know, the railway is a complicated system, so Stožinić came to you, so I don't order any more. I could do a lot of things because I was a little interested in that area. The shaking of the mountain was born of a mouse, a state unaltered. Take care because you choose the wrong way. If you wanted to meet the market economy, then the ministry had to do so through the board of directors, whether through an appropriate amendment to the existing law, to influence the one now carrying out that transport to enable private and other persons who meet the requirements laid down by law, technical, security and other conditions, to be able to use that infrastructure with the appropriate compensation. There are cases like this now, and there's a racket again. This law will be the same as the Public Procurement Act. He'll just legalize something that's already happening, only then will it be much more free.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11133	Replica, MP Velimir Simonovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11134	I answered because Mr. Krasic mentioned a railway school. To be clear, there are two, one high school and one higher railway school in Belgrade. I don't know exactly the data for high school, but I know about the higher school, because I know the director and most of the professors well. There are no unemployed graduates from that school. It was once a school for the whole of the former Yugoslavia, so they sent from Slovenia, Croatia, etc. that's where they go to school. If there is, it's a negligible number of people who are unemployed and finish high school.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11135	Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11136	Article 97 I didn't mention the professor in a negative context, so there was no room for a replica, but since you've already given him a line, I guess I'm also fulfilling the condition to explain and explain what he's referring to. There's this high school, they're also scholarships, but they can't get a job because there's no room on the train. They're hiring with the police after a three-month course.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11137	The People's Messenger Milka Silajev has the word, and let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11138	I would like to talk about the role of Parliament in the process of the country's integration into the European Union, which is very important. Parliament is a key place for political agreements on membership in the European Union as a widely accepted long-term goal, but for steps to be taken in order to achieve that goal. Parliament, as a legislative body, adopts laws that bring the country closer to the European Union by harmonising its legal order with the existing in the Union. In agreement with the IMF, our country was tasked with implementing certain structural reforms, including restructuring of public enterprises. The Republic Development Office has done an analysis of public enterprises for 2003 and there have been interesting data. The analysis showed that public enterprises have 36.7% of the basic assets of the total economy, 11.8% of total employees, 19.7% of income, 20.8% of net profits, and 13.4% of losses, 45.2% is cumulative loss of the total economy, which is EPS, NIS, ZTP, JAT, Airport, "Serbia" and "Serbia". The recommendations of the Institute are to continue structural reforms, to ensure economic, political and legal stability, and all of this to increase foreign investment; to adopt key laws, such as the law on rail and mail, which are now on the agenda for us, and all to restructure and accelerate financial consolidation and reorganisation of public enterprises, as strategic plans of development and business programmes needed to adopt the government; to continue the separation of complementary from basic activities, which some businesses have already done; to bring social programmes for the solutions of excess employees, which have just been spoken of and to resolve the debt restructuring programme; to improve the level of technical and technological equipment by bringing investment programmes that will define priority investments, volume and funding sources. The countries of our environment have long passed the laws of the railroad. We're among the last. The existing situation in the railway is known: low transport quality, high operating costs, huge losses, inadequate organisational system. Today, there is only one carrier, ZTP, who simultaneously manages railway infrastructure. The purpose of the law is to remove these shortcomings. : the introduction of competition, the introduction of multiple operators into public railway infrastructure, in order to increase the quality of services in each other and reduce the cost of business. It is known that competition is always the one that drives people to solve something better and smarter. By separating the railway system into a section that manages railway infrastructure, organisation and regulation of traffic, and the part responsible for the transport of passengers in passenger and freight transport, the Government shall determine the railway infrastructure manager. This is a special organisational continent, which is tasked with making and making regulations from rail traffic, preparing documents from regulatory matters and making regulations for admission to the European Union, in hopes of being singled out into an independent regulatory body and being normally, logistic support to the government in decision-making in the area of the rail system and carrying out inspection. Missing funds for railway infrastructure operations are provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and the right to use and manage the part of the railway infrastructure, for which the company has no economic interest, can be given to local self-government units. I've been able to, I've downloaded laws from the Internet and on rail traffic and on postal traffic, neighboring countries, and what I've noticed, in my opinion, was a little disappointing. You know, somebody used to write a letter to a friend, so he said, "I didn't have time to write a shorter letter." Our laws are too long. I can tell you that, let's say, the Croatian law has 44 members, and ours is 96. The Croatian concession law has only 7 members and our 45 members. What do I mean? I mean, a lot of law issues can be solved by the rules. The Slovenian Telecommunications Act is much shorter, and it has 25 regulations. Why do I say that? The regulations are passed by the Government, easier to change, easier to adapt the system, than can be done by law, because the change of each member is a big problem, because it needs to be organised by the Assembly, it needs to be done, and the rules make it easier for the system to adapt to new technologies, new movements in Europe and society in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11139	The People's MP Veroljub Arsic has the word, so let the MP Dragan Jovanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11140	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I wasn't hoping that some of my fellow MPs would tell this speaker that the government needed some sublegal acts to regulate the area. It's still the work of the Assembly. I don't care what Croatia and Slovenia do. When it comes to rail law, which has been announced as a system law, I can say that it is absolutely not. All 90%, and perhaps more, the law is already prescribed by the existing Law on Railways, and it is only in one part of the paper, which is who will be able to exploit the railways across Serbia. The current legal proposal had the exclusive right to the ZTP Belgrade, and now a new company, which will be called the Railways of Serbia, with full responsibility, will be able to exploit and maintain, but other legal entities and entrepreneurs will be able to do the same. There was a lot of discussion, and everyone in their discussions agreed that our railway was in a difficult situation. However, there was even a story that certain things were going hand in hand, like, we are carrying a lot more goods than other railways in Europe. Of course that's true, but no one's asking why that is. That's because we don't have regional and local passenger and rail traffic, it doesn't exist. It's so small you can say it's zero. We only have international lines from passenger traffic and when the season of vacations is heading towards the sea. It's the only thing we've got since the passenger traffic. Do not be boasted that this goods traffic is so great compared to the passengers, thanks to some resourcefulness, values, etc. It's an extremely bad consequence, given the size of our passenger traffic. Now, the problem arises in that part of it that it will remain a state, or public enterprise, that it mainly restructures existing infrastructures. Now the question is who will exploit this existing or restored infrastructure. It is said that another legal person or entrepreneur can do so if he meets the conditions laid down in this law. Now I ask the question, which lines will that other legal person or entrepreneur exploit, will only those lines that make a profit? It is known which lines are: towards the sea, international lines, whether they are towards Greece or towards Western Europe, anyway. So these are the lines that make profit, and our domestic, or state-owned public enterprise will be left with lines that do business without profit or loss. Now the question is, what are we going to do with those 27,000 workers if that happens, so here goes the story that we need to release the conditions of competition, to make donations or donations from the budget to the railway company less, because someone else is going to do it for us. Then the question arises how are we going to pay those 27,000 people, because part of the profits are lost. They're left with lines that deal with loss. Shall we drive them out into the street? Or we're going to increase our budget donations even more, so that these people can make sense of it. Now, these are the problems this law doesn't solve. He doesn't predict how he's gonna get rid of it. Someone else is obsessed with the illusion that local self-government can maintain and exploit some local lines. That can be said, for example, for the city of Belgrade, but for 99% of other local self-government is a pure illusion. Our local self-government can't solve drinking water problems, sewer problems and dumps, so now we're gonna get them some railroads. It is fortunate that these provisions, relating to other legal entities and entrepreneurs, which look to me like that energy law, which means that the state will make something, create something, and someone else will exploit it, will start to apply from January 1st, 2006. Because the problem with you is that even when you have a good law, the way you're in power, you always ruin it. As early as January 1, 2006, I am sure that this government will not be in power but will be in power of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11141	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, and let MP Momir Markovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11142	Dear fellow MPs, my predecessors from the SPS parliamentary group have already given estimates that this is about one system law, which we consider to be a good law and that we will support it in that sense. I would like to say that this is a framework law, which in one, I repeat, sets out a good way to lay the basic principles for future activities that should govern this strategic area in our Republic. The main objective of the concept of this law is certainly to improve the efficiency of the railway system of the Republic of Serbia, to implement its integration into the transport services market and integration into the European Union rail system. In this regard, it is good that the law is in line with the norms and with the regulation of the European Union. These few sentences of basic goals, it seems short, but it is essentially a huge job waiting primarily for the government in the future. I had certain opinions, similar to those said by my predecessor, when some other system laws were passed. I thought that the formation of future public enterprises would not hurt if the law had laid down the principles of their formation and that this congregation could have affected it. However, it prevailed that this was left to the Government, that according to the Law on Public Enterprises, a founding act on the formation of public enterprises would be adopted, so in this case too. That is why I would like to say just a few words about this future part of the work that awaits us in the constitution of this public enterprise, and I think it is very much related to other state-owned enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, here is a common finding that the public transport company is not in the best condition or that it is in a pretty bad state. When we figure it out, let's just say it in three or four words and why that is. This company belongs to a group of several public enterprises that have suffered the greatest burdens of all the troubles that have hit us in the last 15 years, from sanctions, from war acts, from measures in the period 2001-2003, which have seriously devastated the overall economy, and this part. This company was the bearer of activities that primarily supported one social status and our population and our state. Not to say they had a social function, which I have an impression they have today. It is therefore necessary for the Government, in future activities, to adopt a decision on the establishment of this public enterprise, parallelly adopt a programme, in particular economic consolidation and restructuring programme. But I'd have a note there. When we mention the restructuring programme in the first row, and it's just become a synonym, it's thought of as a surplus of employees, and there's one attitude that I think is harmful and wrong, which is that we'll solve all the problems when we reduce the number of employees in public enterprises. Public undertakings must return the business subjectivity to the extent necessary to enable them to function. We now have a situation that public enterprises are unable to form the economic prices of their products. We have a situation that public enterprises are treated to the greatest extent as budget fillers, which is not to argue that this should not be the case, but at one economic level of income achievement and revenue realised as a result of their business. In this context, all efforts must be made to first achieve economic consolidation, to reduce the costs of these companies' business, to carry out a rationalisation of business, to implement what we have heard for a little while, one formal, business, working discipline. If we do that, then we won't have a big problem with carrying out the rationalization of the workforce. That shouldn't argue that's the problem. We have surplus employees, but I'm sure that's not problem number one. I'll give you a little example. They're full of newspapers and "we're full of mouths" extra employees in public enterprises. I remind you that public enterprises perform their functions, fairly neat and quite high-quality, in conditions in which it is possible. Since 2000, that is, from the end of that year to today, according to some data, 12,000 people have been employed in the state administration. These are people who are employed in the meantime. We and the ZTP, or the Public Enterprise of the ZTP, are talking about a total of 27,000 people, and now I will not predict which would be the excess employees, but it is not at all at the level I mentioned. I simply state that as one small piece of information that we might be able to run some comparative analysis and I think the government is obliged to deal with this issue. In the end, I'm going to say what I think is crucial and what should be first in every debate on this subject. In each country, large systems and the public sector are the main generators and the main driving force of all economic flows and all economic movements. Public enterprises in our country must return to their position to engage domestic industry and domestic economy through future economic consolidation, through future investment projects. We have certain attitudes and certain intensities that now that we're open country, which is good, everything we need to address in public tender and let foreign firms do to us all the more important and bigger jobs, and I know in part that it does. We are not equipped, our machinery building is not equipped to produce whatever is needed for the infrastructure of our public sector, but our building and how it can participate in any project, in any branch of public activity. Minister Ilic, when interpreting this law on our parliamentary group, on this issue he had attitudes that were in the spirit of what I said, and I welcome it, and I just want to appeal that what was said then was tried and implemented. Public enterprises in state property have not only a function to carry out their activities and to do their jobs in the basic job description, but they have an obligation, as they have the most expensive and most valuable facilities, primarily from the machine-building domains and all other types of industry, to be the main driver of this domestic economy. If this does not come to pass, these laws will not have any effect that we expect from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11143	The word has a National MP, Momir Markovic, and let MP Milan Stanimirovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11144	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, besides being under injections, I couldn't help but take part in the discussion when one of these laws is on the agenda. But before that, just a few notes, so that some of the things from the discussion can be cleared up later. I've already passed this bridge several times, which has been renovated, which has been repaired and which connects the blade to the highway. It's very well done, it's solidly done, but when the bridge's release is announced, it says - a road and bridge is being released. The road was done by that international power until the revolution in 2000, and the bridge was done, so your friends from the NATO Pact destroyed that bridge and now, since this bridge was built along with those 58 bridges that Mrkonjic made at the time of reconstruction and construction immediately after the bombing, it will be 59 bridges. When Minister Ilic repairs the railway, which is next door and connects Makish with this track for Vojvodina up, there will be 60 bridges in total. As for the second section of the highway, the second tape of Batajnica - Beška highway, when we attended the session of the Security Committee in Subotica, Mr. Ivica Dacic said, given that the road was being released then, he said - only in the time of my authority was he released three times this time. During the time of Zivkovic's government twice more, and here he is now, and Velja Ilic let go for the sixth time. The law is necessary for every state, the law is needed in every segment of society, because the better the law regulates matter, the less wandering, the less opportunities for failures, the less possibilities for manipulation. However, this law does not solve the railway problem. Many MPs from the SRS have said, so I don't want to repeat them, for the simple reason this law won't fix the railroad, it won't buy new locomotives, it won't buy new wagons, it won't electrify the railroad. Speed's down to 30 to 45 kilometers per hour. A little better cyclist by the train gets here first. Minister Ilic said last night - we must hurry not to be visited. I'm sorry the minister isn't here, they tried through Romania at the time of the bombing, they built a bridge, the Danube Delta destroyed them, they invested more money in the Danube Delta for the bridge to connect Romania, Bulgaria and to avoid this corridor passing through Serbia and eventually did nothing. They can't visit us, it's such a geostrategic position that both the railroad and the road, the sea valley lower and the Danube, provide priority in this part of the job. We're impenetrable. The railroad couldn't have done it alone, but now it's been said that the railway stopped for a while with renovations, with construction, with the purchase of new cars, the railways couldn't have done it alone because the state didn't care as much as it needed. The railroad doesn't have to be rentable, but every state needs it. The attitude of the state to the railroad was catastrophic. This law does not solve an elemental problem. First, how much money it takes and, secondly, where it comes from. The answers to these questions must be given by the Ministry. Does he think about developing through concessions, whether he's thinking about developing through joint investments, whether he's thinking about developing through loans, how he thinks about it, they had to tell this home first. Finally, many members of this law have been critical of what Serbian radicals have been criticising from the very beginning since you started to pass these laws, says Article 57 – compensation is paid for issuing a transport licence. All right. The amount of compensation referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the minister. Why the minister? Why not the Ministry, why not the Government, why not the State through the Ministry? Why is it made possible for one man? As far as one is concerned there is a possibility, I respect Minister Ilic, but there is a possibility that a man might be corrupt. We have some ministers from the previous DOS who were at those functions where Minister Ilic is now, who promised a lot, swore they were honest, and then turned out to be an incredible affair. In Article 58, the minister says -- he is closer to prescribing conditions for issuing a transport safety certificate. Why not the Ministry? Why the minister? Article 60 – for issuing transport security certificates, compensation shall be paid and the amount of compensation shall be determined by the minister. Article 62 -- the minister prescribes a closer content of transport security certificates, and again the minister. Article 74 - Minister prescribes conditions etc. Finally, Article 94 of the Railway Directorate will begin work no later than 1 January 2005. I think the minister lost his calendar and that's why I've prepared an SRS calendar, so I'd like you to hand it to him. Article 96, this law shall enter into force on 1.10. In 2004. Finally, the final paragraph of Article 96 says - in carrying out the general interest in public transport of passengers and goods, the rules of 1 January 2006 apply. I ask why the minister now cares about the Radical Minister for Capital Investments, because on January 1, 2006, Mr Ilic will certainly not be sitting in that chair and I can see who will be there.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11145	The word has a National MP Milan Stanimirovic, and let MP Branislav Stevanovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11146	Mr. Chairman, respected fellow MPs, we have before us a proposal for a railway law that should help to restructure one of the public enterprises on legal grounds, one of the most important public enterprises in Serbia and one of the most devastated and destroyed public enterprises in Serbia. Here for this assembly speaker I want to remember one time at the beginning of the last decade when here, I think it was called Minister Prohaska in Zelenovic's government, showing diagrams, talking about the quick lines of Serbia, about new highways, to experience 15 years later talking about raising one of the public enterprises in Serbia. In some ways, the story of the railway and the beginnings of the railway in Serbia is also the paradigm of the overall state in which our country is located in the previous two centuries. We celebrated two centuries of the modern Serbian state last year, and we remember a discussion about it, and even a TV drama was made, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then the Kingdom of Serbia, when it was discussed the introduction of the railway into Serbia, was a very bile debate. Some of them said we didn't need the railroad, because it came from the west. From the west comes everything bad and will destroy our fields and forests, that it will pollute our rivers, that it will frighten our cattle, our game, and that Serbia will lose what it has always been through the centuries. Only one vote was then decided to join the construction of a railway in Serbia. It seems to me that this is the situation in parliament, and that we are always fighting for that one vote to modernise our country and to join that part of Europe that is advanced in both economic and social, both politically and in any other way. We have a railroad law, and I'm going back to that situation from the beginning of the last decade when we were talking about high-speed rails and when the Swedish standard was promised, $10,000 then per capita head, and that after that cycle, we would end up with almost one dollar per 10,000 inhabitants. The idea of Serbia's high-speed railways and roads was also successfully implemented. Another confirmation of that saying that sometimes the path to hell is paved by good intentions. What is the state of rail infrastructure in Serbia today? That's a bit of a disaster, isn't it? The railway infrastructure consists of, of course, railway railways, railways, electrical and stable installations, electrical pulleys with belonging facilities, telecommunications information facilities with buildings, land in a rail safety belt, railway station buildings, depots and other railway stations which are in function of rail traffic on a non-real basis. Furthermore, the fact-finding strategy for the development of this public enterprise, unprofessional and irresponsible management, often without a minimum of competence, spending funds on missed, political, not professionally designed projects, such as the "Vuk's Monument", land works on the virtual fast track, on the Valjevo-Loznica railway line, which was referred to as alternating construction, demolition, and the rebuilding of parts of the railway station "Prokop" in Belgrade. These funds were spent on these investments in times of severe sanctions and a very difficult situation in which the state was, I repeat, for political reasons, not professionally based projects. All of this has been done in these difficult conditions of general destruction of peoples and states. In the past, and to a greater extent, the collapse and devastation of railway infrastructure and bringing it down to total dysfunction and the threatened safety of the passengers themselves has been supported. According to the data I came up with, the total track write-off is 96%, and about 80% of the thresholds are wooden and their average rot is about 15%, and at 55% of the total track length is allowed axle loads below 22.5 tonnes. In the last decade, the remont track looks like this: from 1990 to 1995, 110 kilometers of track was remounted, in 1996, 10.5 kilometers, in 1997, 13.5 kilometers, in 1998, 10.8 kilometers, and in 1999 and 2000, no single mile of rail was remounted. So, for this decade from 1990 to 2000, only about 140km of railroad in Serbia has been remounted. The cycle of remounting the master's tracks has not been completed in the last 34 years. Corridor 10, which we are talking about and which should be our advantage, we kept saying that the flaw we're on is on the road, which should be our big advantage in the future, the Belgrade-Nish trains are running at a speed of 63.29 kilometers per hour and arriving in a row of four hours and a minute, but I don't think they ever got exactly on time, and there was a project called two hours and 58 minutes in time, because it took so long for the train from Belgrade station to Nis station. Today, from Kikinda to Pancheva arrive in four hours and 30 minutes, and in 1958, Belgrade - Kikinda arrived in two hours and 58 minutes. From Zrenjanin to Belgrade, about 70km of railway, travels around six hours today. Parts of the Belgrade-Nish and Belgrade-Bar trains run at about 40km per hour. Before 2000, the last track maintenance machines in ZTP Belgrade were purchased in 1985. The depreciation rate of all capacities is greater than 100%. The average percentage of amortisation of bouncers is 188.7%, and three of the five defecators for turners are in the third working century in over 200% of depreciation. It is a similar situation with machines engaged in investment maintenance of railways, maintenance and control machines, where the rate of depreciation is from 140% to even over 300%. The vehicles are in exactly the same catastrophic state. Diesel and electrolocomotives are in exactly the same catastrophic state. Diesel and electrolocots, diesel motor trains, shinobuses and electric trains are about 75% off the machine, mostly due to one decision by former incompetent management to stop regular six-month remonts. So sometimes a decision has been made to remove regular six-month remonts, but to drive while driving and when it breaks down then goes, like making a decision not to change your car oil, an oil filter, an air filter, and everything that follows, but wait for it to screw up the engine and then send it to repair. The result of one such decision, among other bad decisions made, is that, according to the 2001 data, out of 513 tow vehicles, only 133 were correct, and out of 392 passenger cars were 130, and the wrong 262, out of 14,601 wagons was correct only 5.264 cars. Electrical engineering devices are more than three decades old and are at the border of total depreciation. Automatic telephone and telegraph networks and analogue transmission systems are older than 25 and up to 40 years old, and are completely exceeded and are no longer produced by equipment or spare parts. Railways need a root of change and reform and a complete system set on a completely different basis. Legally, of course, and this law is a step towards it, and then technically, organisationally and humanly. That is why DS - Boris Tadic believes this law is necessary in any case. It is a good thing that it is going towards the legislation that already exists, that we do not invent hot water and that the rail systems are separated into two parts, and that part that is responsible for the management of railway infrastructure, organisation and regulation of traffic and the part that is responsible for transport in passenger and freight traffic. Another very important segment allows this law, which is needed, because it has proved to be all the destruction of an anachronized centralization of everything that exists, and whose testimony we have witnessed in the last 10-15 years, when centralization and rail occurred. It was a bad road, because there are some railways that have existed for more than 100 years and that no longer exist today; they are completely devastated and destroyed; and there are regions and municipalities that are interested in the existence of the railway, not just for the transport of goods, but also for the transport of passengers, students and everything else. We believe that this law is certainly good and that it is the basis for restructuring a significant public enterprise, such as the Serbian Railways. But we have witnessed more than once, I remember, at the end of this exhibition, Minister Prohaska and his good intentions, I doubt that these capacities at his disposal will be able to restructure this important public enterprise, such as the Serbian Railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11147	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11148	Mr. Chairman, I doubt there are enough MPs in this room to hold a debate and demand that the quorum be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11149	Dear colleagues, please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we don't have a quorum. I'm setting a break by 1:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work. Please, before setting out the extensions, according to official records, 107 MPs are present to determine the quorum. Thank you. We're continuing our work. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milomir Miniæ, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11151	Dear fellow MPs, I didn't know that DS colleagues were very sensitive to a little criticism. Here we have...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11152	Excuse me, please, which member.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11153	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11154	Here you go. Just tell me who hurt the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11155	A colleague of Stanimirovic had a very interesting exhibition. In the break I used to read, I didn't immediately realize, it was very competent and he talked about the past on the railway, and how the railway was run incompetently and politically, and afterwards came competent and successful businessmen to manage our railways. As a colleague says, according to the data he provided, he was very specific about us here and I just want to fill it in a little bit and sort things out. When I handed over my duty after that time, when there were major changes in Serbia, I handed over the work report to the new leadership, with all the data on the operation of the railway and on the state of our railways, revenues and other problems facing the railways. About some things specifically. In fact, since 1994, the railways have had a balanced financial balance. As the state of affairs stood when they came competent and successful, I was able to obtain data and here's what they look like in the last three years. In 1998, we had 11.6 million tons of goods on the railway. In 2001, the railroad carried 8.7 million tons of goods. In 2002, the railway carried 9.4 million tonnes of goods and in 2003, when there were no sanctions, the railway carried 10.8 million goods. How's it going with the proceeds? In 1998, the railway made 4.5 billion dinars of its own income outside the state's participation. In 2001, the railways made an income of 4.1 billion, and 2002 - 3.8 and 2003 - 4.2 billion. How's it going with the losses? I'm saying that in 2000, the railways didn't have any losses. In 2001, the railway made losses of 8 billion 647 million dinars. In 2002, the railroad realized... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The loss of 10 billion and 628 million dinars, and in 2003 the railways achieved a loss of 12 billion dinars. That says two things. It wasn't a good attitude of the state towards the railways and our economy wasn't working, so the railroad had nothing to transport. I wouldn't want to burden myself much more with that data. A colleague said that a lot of problems had brought us centralisation on the railways and that because of this centralization, those railways that existed for 100 years had been lifted. That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11156	Mr. Minic, four minutes are up, please finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11157	I'm done. In Vojvodina, 600km of railways were lifted and another 600km of rail was planned to be abolished. It's just not said that it was done when Vojvodina was separated from Serbia and that it was done by autonomists. Just as one small example, and they remember and they well know that at the end of the 1996 HH century, diesel locomotives introduced a train across the Pančeva Bridge in Belgrade. We made a one-wheel rail to Pancheva and the integration started, and of course today the prospect of connecting and restoring rail traffic in Vojvodina is open, which is necessary. We didn't lift the tracks, and I think that's a very sensitive question, since it's the subject of this law. We've been rebuilding, along with the municipalities in Vojvodina, not to waste any time, and I think this program should, if the government steps forward soon, continue that reconstruction of the railroad. Just a few facts to take a complete picture of the state of the railroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11158	Thank you for the information, since there was no other breach of the Rules of Procedure, except for the incomplete transmission of data. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branislav Stevanovic, and let MP Dusan Prorokovic be prepared. Excuse me, Mr. Stevanovic, for waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11159	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, already yesterday and today in the principle debate on the Law on Railways is very much said, and in fact there were exhaustive and pure studio speeches, such as Mr. Stamenkovic and this previous speaker who spoke also yesterday very professionally about this law. I don't want to say anything special about this law, but from one of my corners, especially when it comes to the further perspective of our railroad. This refers to a railway line about 100 years ago, which is the Valjevo - Loznica railway line. In fact, it is a total mileage of 68km, which has 20 tunnels, slightly more bridges, and the investment cost about 140m euros, and the construction deadline is planned for two years. In fact, this investment would be very important for Serbia, and among other things because our machine complexes and former giants, like the Kraljevo Car Factory, as MIN, would employ around 30,000 workers. However, the aim of this law is to bring in foreign investors who would bring in their equipment and thus be neglected by our industry in this regard. One of our perspective problems, which is also the Belgrade railway node and Prokop, which Mr. Minister spoke of. In fact, this parliament should have greater power and the Serbian government, so that we can convince Mr Bogdanovic and the government of Belgrade that we should start these investments, and certainly that the city of Belgrade has a strong enough budget for these investments to be sought in terms of the Belgrade railway node. The purpose of the foreign investor is to use the infrastructure that we provide for the construction of the railroad as a road, and we would practically invest in that infrastructure and invest our personal resources. When it comes to rail electrification itself, it should also be pointed out that it is far more cost-effective to build rails on an electric power plant, and in 2010 it is planned that we will be missing around 700 megawatts of electricity, and it would be very interesting to launch the construction of Colubary B, so that we would include one of these capital investments in all of our plans planned in the next period. Also, I'd like to say it's very bad that it's planned under this law and all these government plans to fire 3,000 workers. It is, however, for our society a large number of workers and needs to provide them with a social programme. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here to ask a few questions, so I'm gonna cut this speech short and so much from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11160	Here you go, Mr. Prophetovic, and let the MP Rajko Baralic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11161	Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I'm going to take a brief look at some of the criticisms that were taken out of this pay phone, and I don't think they're standing. The first criticism was that the law was plagiarized, i.e. it was written in the previous period. I must say that the good part of this law is actually a directive of the European Union, a directive and its translation into the law cannot be plagiarism, nor is Minister Ilic plagiarizing. The directive also looked the same in 1992 and 2000, as it does today. Another story is why some larger and more powerful countries do not apply this directive, and why we will have to apply it in part or in whole. This is likely to continue to be discussed in this assembly, because the experiences of some countries show that the railway law has changed several times during application, and that criticism by the MP, Mrs Silaiev, says that some countries have simply governed the law in principle, and everything else is regulated by regulations, because they often change depending on the circumstances and conditions in which the railway operates. I will not, as Mr Minic said, speak in detail, but I would look only at one political aspect of the importance of passing this law. There are two factors why this law should be passed and why it should be supported by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The first is to comply with European standards. The second is related to the importance of the railway for our economy and the importance of the development of rail traffic for the economy of the Republic of Serbia. Minister Ilic honestly said this is a condition of the European Union and I welcome the move. Of course, it is about compliance with European standards and European legislation, but we are conditioned in this segment. No one will allow us to have completely different standards than the states in the environment because of the thousands and a few hundred kilometers of corridor 10 that passes through our country. One regime cannot apply to Horgos and another regime to Horgos. There is an interest of European investors and creditors in corridor 10. Unfortunately, we are in the economic situation in which we are and we are left to make the accumulation for the development of regional railways exactly the right revenue coming from corridor 10. I think the criticism that speaks of foreign investors, as some capitalist exploiters who will draw profits from this country, absolutely does not stand. They must in that section of the railway, I mean where Serbia will invest, something to transport, pay the Republic of Serbia, so a concession to use the railway and some people have to hire. Of course they'll hire our people. They have to pay taxes. Of course they will pay taxes to the Republic of Serbia and of course we will all benefit from that. Also, Serbia has to hurry up with this. It is not just a corridor across Bulgaria and Romania, it is a major political action that can be read from the Bosnian media, so making a transport corridor for Budapest -- the port of Ploce, which would go through Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is in Serbia's interest to employ its Belgrade-Bar railway, to carry goods and passengers from Hungary through Belgrade and continue to rail across the Bar to the southern Adriatic, rather than to go through Tuzla, Sarajevo further towards the port of Ploca. The sooner we agree our legislation, the more time it will be for this law to be implemented, and much faster, I hope, than Bosnia and Herzegovina, because in this business, our big partner is attracted to foreign investors. Of course, there are many technical details why harmonisation of legislation is necessary, which is what far more competent MPs have spoken of than I have, such as discharge so-called. combined transport. And it should also be pointed out that the foreign factor is interested, because one third of our total transport capacity, so it's exactly what they're using. As far as regional railways are concerned, I repeat, the accumulation for the reconstruction of regional railways must go from corridor 10 and that all those railways that have been neglected, which are being talked about here today, develop in some subsequent period. Also, one of the criticisms that could be heard is that the railway today is in a desperate position, there are reading various statistics. I would not transfer responsibility either to Minister Ilic or to the government of the Republic of Serbia, because what has been so for 30 years, in nine months it cannot recover. Everything was ruined because of the inability of the management, because of the domestic factor, but I have to say it was also ruined because of the foreign factor. So there were various economic interests, there were lobby groups, therefore, during NATO bombings, so our budget had to be strained and to restore certain capacities in the previous period and because of all of that we are here today. As far as the local government is concerned, of course local self-government doesn't have enough money to deal with this issue at the moment, but as in other countries, I think different market mechanisms will allow local economy to start dealing with the topic. Two conditions for the development of a local economy in Serbia's small environments are the first effective rail to transport goods, and the second is gasification, so that the goods are as cheap as possible, so as not to be used by some other energy sources. I think this is a good law. I think we should support this law. If we go back a bit in Serbia's history, we will see that after all the crisis periods, Serbia has renewed and progressed by developing its railway. We have examples from the Brerenovic era, we have examples from the Karadjordjevic era, we have examples after World War II. One of the first major projects in the former SFRY was the Banovici railway - Brcko. I believe that by preparing our legislation for some future investment, we can revive our metal complex, we can intensify some of the developments in our economy and we can help develop Serbia more evenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11162	The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let the people's sent Vladimir Milankov be prepared, who will otherwise be the last speaker, because Mr Vladan Jovičić and Ivan Zivadinovic have given up. Mr. Baralic, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Deputy, I will talk about the social aspect of the application of the railway law and some more questions that have not been heard today, and for us as SPS are very important and important to the people who are working in the railway today. First, I will try to define the railway as one of the most state-owned institutions, and the railway has contributed greatly to the development of the state in the past century, its economic, transport, cultural and other foundations and equality with the developed world, where a whole series of important economic operators have been moving, which has contributed to the development of science, which has contributed to normal and rapid communication of goods and people. The railroad was beyond all concepts so that it had everything that was important to one country, which was its attributes, which could define and paint its development and which could help in times of crisis more than others. This is very important and therefore, according to the railways we have due respect for, we have one relationship that should be somewhat historic, but of course, first of all, we have a responsibility to pass a law that will contribute to the fact that the railway has a place and a role that will give citizens of this country and this country all those advantages that modern railways can give to one state. The railway has its own system of education, its uniform, has its telegraph, its health care system, it has a whole series of other issues of internal organisation that are not owned by other industries, and therefore we need to talk with full attention about this problem and a law that defines what the railway should be in the future. Just for a little while, I'll take a few questions. It's impossible to give up railway school without the consequences of the railroad itself. It is impossible, first of all, in those executive functions in the railway that have their own procedures, their own special regulations, which have a special internal security system, which have a whole series of things that can't be obtained by any education in other schools. That is why we need to be very careful about rail education, as well as education in PTT and other specific areas, because if we want railways, then we need to have, first of all, those schools that can train people to work on railways and run railways. Furthermore, I want to say that the most important assumptions of the railway today in Serbia, although the railway is as it is, that's the network of its railways, that's the personnel, the people who work today, and, if it were lucky that there's healthy money, then these two components would give modern and efficient railways and ensure that in a much better way than so far, goods are transported, then people and everything the railways can give. It's a nice opportunity for me to say here that the railroad, and when it's unmounted, when a spring land is abandoned, can help with an ex-investment that can be revolving in some things that are very concretely calculated into five municipalities of the pleasure region and the Chacan region. The whole system of Rzav from Arilj to Gornji Milanovac, I talked about it here several times in the budget and on other occasions, was set 22 kilometers along the path of the railway Požega - Čačak and thus the burial of this pipeline was 7.5 times cheaper than that we had to do it through the ravine, through stones etc. It is uncritical in Serbia in some directions that the railway, such as Cachak, such as some others, does not mean that we should not do everything we can to connect these places with the railway if possible and if there are funds for it. What I want to say is about people who are employed and what is possible to happen, not as a product and the consequences of this law, but the Law of Privatization. There is an intensity, and we recently talked about it at a professional gathering in Zlatibor, that those parts of companies that were once referred to as the social standard or others are isolated from the Public Undertaking of the Serbian Railways, to be sold, because for God's restructuring of the enterprise includes, among other things, this. What I'm trying to say is quite precisely that the railways' salary has always been very low. Some occupations on the railroad, such as engineers, are bordered by an unfettered internship. Then their salary isn't so low, if they can rest with their family for 15 days in one, for two or three years. If we sell them what was also built out of railway pairs during these decades, we will practically leave them without being able to subsidize in this way to meet their needs of recovery, rehabilitation, health care, etc. That's why I don't think the railroad is in the same position as the EPS, or in the same position as CTU. The railroad should have a special approach to these things when the Privatisation Act is implemented. We'll sell it to people the easiest way, and then we'll leave them with no assets that have helped them to rest, heal, rehabilitate after hard work and hard work. The Socialist Party of Serbia will support this law, confident that all those responsible for the development of the railway and for everything that arises from this will have the strength to make the right decisions when it comes to this thing concerning corridors, the construction of the highways, everything that is very important. Over 200 large systems and their cooperatives once in that country, and now in our Serbia lives, or can live off the rails. I hope that as MPs, we understand that interest and that we will make that contribution that these economic operators expect from us, because it is the easiest thing to do. In each of our municipalities there is one small company or large systems that work directly for the railways and whose railway is an exclusive buyer. Hundreds of thousands of workers in Serbia directly from the metal complex, from various others, from some foundry, are related to the work of the railway.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11164	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Milankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11165	Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, gentlemen and Madam MPs, there is a thesis that says that one country is the kind of railway it has. Whoever used the services of the French railways, Germany and other Western European countries will certainly agree to this thesis. Looking that way, we are even closer to the view that this railway law is urgent, it is important and that it should be brought to this congregation as soon as possible. The desire to change this law stems from the fall of both volume and quality and organisation of the railway system, and the cost of maintaining the rail system is increasing every day. The numbers here are mentioned, I wouldn't get into those numbers, but that's obvious. The concept of a new railway law is such as to regulate the way and conditions of rail infrastructure management, as well as to ensure that rail traffic is carried out in a completely new way. The newspaper provided for in this law is that the management of railway infrastructure is to be left to a public undertaking or to another undertaking that meets the conditions for the railway system in its part of transport to be treated as a separate continent, meaning that the transport of goods and services is one separate whole in the railway system. What's also important, and the paper is certainly in this law and this law is certainly more liberal than the last one, is that conditions are being created for competition with regard to the carrier, and that should also mean greater quality of rail services. Independent business also involves free formation of transport prices, in particular financing of railway infrastructure managers, and this law implies that rail infrastructure can also be managed by local self-government units. The paper is certainly also the establishment of a new institution, the Railway Directorate. It would work to monitor regulations and all professional affairs, as well as regulatory tasks related to rail traffic. I'd say a little more in my presentation about governance and railway infrastructure, and I'd say what this law means under the railway infrastructure, and that certainly hasn't been changed since the last law. It's the upper and lower machine. You know what the bottom machine is, it's a rash and what's above it, it's thresholds and tracks. It's clear to us, it's objects, railways, railways, telecommunications, it's signal devices, electromagnetic plants, buildings and land on which these facilities are located. Outside this railway infrastructure are administrative buildings with their land, garages, depots, and they are treated differently. The categorization of railway infrastructure remained the same. It refers to highway, regional and local railways. The railway infrastructure remained public, owned by the Republic of Serbia, with railway infrastructure divided into public railway infrastructure and industrial railways, usually used by entrepreneurs. It is, as a rule, in the plants, closed industrial circles and later joins the public railway under the given conditions. Let me just point out how important this industrial railway is, and it's not so important in this new law. Industrial railways on Serbia's territory are 1,100km long, while the public railway network is about 3,500km long, with station lines still around 5,000km long. I'll point out later why it's an important industrial railway. Because some things, I think, are not best defined in this law. Railway infrastructure can be given to manage all those, public undertakings or other forms of enterprises that meet the given conditions, according to the law, and these conditions are financial insolvency, a licence issued by the Directorate and a safety certificate. What does that security certificate mean? Professional training, technical equipment and supervision of infrastructure. I would say that one newspaper here is going into the eyes, which is to trust the management of the railway infrastructure, if the driver no longer has a commercial effect, to the units of local self-government. It is one newspaper that means a lot and indicates that local self - administrations where they benefit, especially for goods transport, will make the maximum use of this favor. In practice, the situation arises that those supply routes have been abolished through those local self-governments that do not have enough resources, do not have sufficient expertise to maintain or give to manage a railway infrastructure. I'm going to make an example of Banat and his territory, that it was 50 years ago, and it's still the most covered rail network exactly Banat territory. We know it's a legacy from the past, from some former states. However, one important direction, at least for this region, is Zrenjanin-Vršac, no longer works, not at least in the area in which it has worked before. The direction passes through poor and undeveloped municipalities at Serbia's level, and these are the municipalities of Zitiste, Secanj, Plandište. I think such municipalities will find it difficult to find opportunities and resources to manage railway infrastructure. There are various models that this law did not pay attention to. Is it someone pooling funds through some funds, so complicity with the province or with the republican fund. Certainly, the economy in these municipalities is interested in the transport of goods. I think it must, whether it's some sublegal act, be even more regulated, because this is how it's possible that a beautiful idea will stand untapped. It is important that this law is very detailedly regulated and processed matter of construction, reconstruction and modernisation of the railroad. So you know exactly who costs the work of new projected railway networks or if the railway network is designed and cut off some routes. This time I have to resent that the municipal infrastructure is also neglected by law. Who's going to be in charge? I can say an example that municipal infrastructure and railway networks are often crossed, and by this law, if not regulated, at least something like that could have been predicted. Especially when industrial railways and their driver are at stake, there is a lack of logic. I have in my construction practice a lack of logic. Permissions and consent should be sought from the railway manager, due to some failures, for municipal infrastructure. Usually it's a very difficult and long-term job. I would simply ask the legislator to arrange for some sublegal or later technical norms that remain large. Now I have an idea about expropriating land for future directions and projects around abandoned railways. That land that's been given to management for now, the ZTP, you don't know what's going to happen to it. So those tracks that are abandoned and those directions that are designed for some next rail network are actually one big public good and it's parked. It often appears in practice that the dipping of railways that are devoid of them are the raspberries for the purpose of making fish lakes, or that scooter is drawn from the lower machine and dragged for some of the needs of the local population. It simply would take that management company tomorrow to make more accounts, to return the land to using local self-government or to do something else. I wouldn't be longer, I'd just end up with the railway infrastructure and say that this law creates conditions for better rail traffic management and railway infrastructure. We are much behind, I mentioned countries in Western Europe, but we are much behind for countries in the region and the way they regulated rail traffic. I would not mention that we have a car park from the '50s to the '60s, that the association on the Yugoslav railways is those famous Kennedys, Hungarians and Shinobuses that we took as war compensation from East Germany. It is simply that this law creates conditions for our railways to be better arranged, to be placed on sound grounds, and finally Serbia has a 21st century rail.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11166	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right? No, I don't. ) I am concluding the principle of shock. In accordance with Article 136(3) of the Financial Regulation, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a search of the bill, in particular. Prior to that, Mr Stanimirovic, a replica of Mr Minic's exposure, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11167	Mr. President, dear fellow MPs, I apologize for reacting a little later. I wasn't in the O.R. when Mr. Miniæ spoke, but I had a chance to listen to the MP's club, because we were getting ready to go down to the O.R. and continue our work today's session. Who doesn't have stronger arguments is served by facts. I presented a series of facts about the state of the railway, which was brought into that state, among other things, and thanks to Mr. Minic, whom I did not personally mention, but he recognized himself and went out to defend himself after this speaker. A lot of things depend on who's watching them and from what angle. Maybe for Mr. Minic, the fast tracks and the ones that chase 50 kilometers per hour. However, our standards are far higher. It is not the high-speed rails that trains go 50km an hour, but rather the high-speed railways that make trains go 200 and more kilometers per hour, as in Europe. As far as politically motivated decisions are concerned, as regards rail traffic, which I have stated, here's just an example. For example, the tracks from the Vojvodjan railways were carried, among other things, and to do one share on the Valjevo-Loznica railway, where Mr. Milomir Minić happens to be, that's exactly his end of Valjevo-Loznica, and I'm glad there was no local patriotism in the construction of the Valjevo-Loznica railway, but also on the Vienna railways were carried rails. Then, when it comes to repairing the locomotive, the regular remont for six months was abolished during the time Mr. Milomir Minic operated the railways in Serbia. So we came into a situation that not a quarter of the locomotives or tow vehicles were correct during the term of office of Mr Minic. And not to mention how many locomotives or tow vehicles were dragged and taken from Vojvodina, so the Subotica-Belgrade business train was mostly driven by two wagons. Simply, the passengers couldn't even stand in the halls anymore. We need decentralisation in all areas. You've done centralised in all areas, so of course it's been followed by the railroad. But I'm in favour of decentralisation that won't mean disintegration. In both political terms, and also in terms of rail, we need decentralisation that will not mean disintegration of the entire system in Serbia, but will allow this decentralisation in some way to enable people living in certain regions, municipalities, etc. to regulate some relations, in any area, and now we are talking specifically about railways, to the benefit of citizens living in that territory, not at the expense of Serbia's central system. In the end, I would say a saying by Dusan Radovic -- problems would be solved by those who made them. It may be, Mr. Minicu, the most just, but it's not the smartest.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11168	Thank you for the quote. The People's MP Miniæ is asking for a word. It's my fault. Can I ask you, Mr Minicu, since it is my fault too, to explain - first I let you react by reading the report from the stenogram, what Mr Stanimirovic was saying in the work when you were not here. Forgive me, but on account of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have only completed the information, i.e. those who have been exported, no one is offended or engaged in the past. Mr. Stanimirovic, I have allowed you a replica of the exposure that was at the time when you were supposed to be in the O.R., as you yourself said, and you have now opened a debate in the replica about what happened in the past millennium. Allow me some seriousness. We've completed the search in principle. If you want to make a correction to this (receives to MP Miniæ) I warn you that this was a replica. Please, formulate the Rules of Procedure, make a correction and then please both Mr. Stanimirović and Mr. Stanimirović to end the discussion. You agree, so thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11169	Thank you. I don't think the president of our assembly, which is very tolerated, is accurate here. When my colleague Stanimirovic spoke, I was in the O.R. and I wanted to react immediately, but the session was interrupted. That's what you have to say to be precise. (President: I apologize. Well, maybe just a few things again. There's got to be a debate like this to get concrete results, so we're gonna make a point. A colleague, Stanimirovic, said not enough railway repairs have been done over the past 10 years. However, a very competent man spoke, a remounted railroad consisting of a lower and upper machine. We were under sanctions. There's no railroad repairs without new tracks. But we left the new government 30,000 tons of tracks, which they used for the good of the railroad when they came to work. If we had taken... But not to waste my time - we began to return the railways to Vojvodina, which the autonomists had abolished. And there we have made very good agreements and we have provided the tracks that are needed to reduce some speed, and perhaps for Valjevo. I don't want to talk about it unchecked, but we've provided tracks to restore the railways in the area. And about the high speeds, please, or corridor 10, if we want to be very real; one of our colleagues here talked about it, in 1990, in the previous Yugoslavia, and at the beginning of the developed market, Yugoslav railways were used 99%. That's right. It is true that Western Europe is a good market, but it is also true that the new markets are good markets and Europe's railways want to cross our country. Are we going to use Corridor 10? And these are projects that are really big investments. They can work together with Europe and surely we need to go out with the programme to be a national project before this assembly. We can make it happen. Europe is interested, and independently of that, the programme should bear the same parties that are in power the most, and have the support of the opposition, as only one such railway modernisation programme can succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11170	Thank you. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, Mr. Gjorgevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11171	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 4(3). We believe the word "minister" should be replaced by the words "competent ministry". The point is that Serbia's government minister is a political figure. Many colleagues have presented some details about our railway, but it is a key thing - the development of our railways, that is, that is. If we were a transit country, we all know that. Some of the MPs from the ruling parties have been using this flossule for this speaker over and over again – transit countries, etc. What is the essence of this bill is that the law should be completely clear and accurate. We have submitted a number of amendments with the intention of changing the concept law. Article 4 shows that this law is written in haste. We know that the Minister of Government is headed by the Ministry of Capital Investment and that he cannot be professional for all areas, for road, river, air traffic, railways, etc. That is why it is more appropriate to write "competent Ministry", than "Minister", as Article 4 of Article 1 states what railway infrastructure is. Well, if the minister is not such a narrow profession, then, of course, it's more appropriate to write "the competent ministry". But why the "competent Ministry"? Not because it's more appropriate, but because it's a railway, and that's where we all agreed, of general social and state interest, and then our railroad needs to be raised to a higher level of organization. We based our concept of the bill on the fact that only one public enterprise should be formed, and we mean the ZTP "Belgrade", that is, the legal successor should be the railway of Serbia, and that will be explained in the next amendments, both me and my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11172	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Here's a word for Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a shame Minister Ilic isn't here. There is one of his deputies or associates, but this is another warning for all those from the Serbian government who are just about to send us some draft laws. The colleagues of the SRS, and myself, tend to confirm that as correct, that the direct culprit for writing such a third position in this member of the law, and that is repeated, the Republic Secretary of the Secretariat for Law, and that is Mr Zoran Balinovac. On several occasions, we had a proposal for various laws at committee meetings to discuss it, and now there is no minister to answer his opinion on the matter, is it possible that the minister appointed for the affairs of a resolution, in this case Mr Ilic has united the former four ministries, can be expert on all of this and that he is closer to laying down regulations. We have heard everything from Velimir Ilic, and about building the Belgrade-Bar highway and about capital investments, opening new jobs, there is nothing of it, but that he also wants to launch some projects. Don't, please, convince us, and he's the legislator of this law, that he's ready to take care of the elements of the railway infrastructure, and that includes it. Be careful what Velja Ilic would have to know and decide on it in the third position, which fellow wants to put the ministry there, because there are people from the profession. If it were to remain this way, then Velimir Ilic would have to study all this well, to understand the following and to see what the railway infrastructure includes: lower and upper railways, railways, station wagons, telecommunications, signal-safe, electrical, electricity and other installations and devices on the track, railway equipment, railway stations and other facilities on railway stations, which are in the function of organising and regulating rail traffic, with land served by these buildings, rail belt and airspace above the railway. Well, that's real, if it's for Velya Ilic, a lot. He's had enough of this pain over the events in JAT and the pilots. If he should know all this and know what's coming next, it would be amazing. And it doesn't matter if it's him, Velimir Ilic, by name and last name, or tomorrow some other minister, and the next one will be for the SRS area, someone expert in traffic operations, but it must in detail know everything and prescribe conditions for railway infrastructure. So stop that and don't give us such an explanation. Now you are a Mr. Representative of the Government and this ruling set, which is repeated from resources to resources, from law to law, as if we don't know anything about it, and we are right, and not you, because they are in an explanation for not accepting Mr. Djordjevic's well-intentioned amendment, which gives you a fine indication that professional people from the ministry are doing it, they say – the amendment is not accepted, because it is essentially the same. The minister is the person who manages the ministry (it is true), and even when the law defines that the act is adopted by the ministry, the minister signs it and is responsible for its implementation. And that's true, but that the minister finds it closer to the details of things that concern the profession in this matter of railway infrastructure, it's absolutely unacceptable, so funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11174	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11175	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment to the SRS makes sense and could be supported if we had the Ministry of Transport. Unfortunately, as explained here, it is a summation of several different ministries in one and from that aspect it could complicate things. Otherwise, we've discussed multiple times what the minister means, what the ministry means. It makes sense both ways, depending on the concept. So, with that in mind, it's a good amendment, but it's a concept of how who's going to set that thing up. As far as these other things are concerned, I'd like to say that those who are being respected here today that they've only ruined everything in a year have managed to rebuild 37 railway bridges, that's $500 million. When some others came to power, we received a minister who printed notes without cover, embezzled four billion funds at Belgrade Airport, gave his father-in-law a loan in Baja Basta. Hold on to the thief, it's been a long time, let everyone watch the surrender and keep an eye on what his exposed personnel are doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11176	Replica. No one mentioned you. Replica, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11177	Mr. Angelkovic, I wanted to explain, since Mr. Baralic misread my presentation, that the team was worse than the four ministries led by Mr. Velimir Ilic. It's called the Ministry of Capital Investment, which includes the former four, and that's what you've accepted by the Government Act, so it's not an argument not to accept an amendment that you yourself said was good. But it's impossible, since Mr. Ilic is doing this comprehensive work (do or do not do it, we will see it), that we are now telling you that he is so professional both for infrastructure and for pilots, so if he is told tomorrow, and that was the manner of one government, I will not mention when and during what period of multilaterals, to point a finger at someone and say - if you are a pilot tomorrow, come sit down and fly a plane. You can't do that anymore. If he's a minister, it's okay, he's responsible, he's signing it, but you know what men are from the profession. And we MPs can do different things. The legislative authority is at stake, and when it serves the law, it must be a professional service and stand behind it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11178	I hope we're clear now. MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11179	Ladies and gentlemen, in favour of the explanation of this amendment, I will present some facts that are contrary to Mr. Secretary's presentation last night, just before the end of yesterday's session. The minister denied some of my allegations, saying that the railways in Banat are not so bad, but that the reason for the state's treatment of these railways is the lack of passengers and the lack of goods needed for transport. That's not true, which just confirms that one man can't deal with so many jobs or get the wrong information or that he's not well informed, the following data says. It's the data from Kickinda, right from that part of the Northern Banat railroad, which is also the most endangered. Last year there were 4.329 cars or 104,721 tonnes of goods, and 4,014 cars or 212,483 tonnes were shipped. In total, there were 384 cars and 320,000 tonnes in transit. It is the highest percentage and largest figure in Serbia. And the problem is that "Metanol" as one complex of methanol-syrcets transports its goods first northward towards Subotica, to bring it down and make double expenses because it can't take the track from Kikinda to Belgrade. That's true when it comes to goods, and when it comes to passengers, why is it much less a passenger than 10 years ago, so normally it's less when it's a means of transport, the shinobuses are 50 years old, when it's blowing on all sides, when during the winter the web smokes more than it heats up, when everything shakes that a man can get a complicated hose if he drives or travels for six hours 100 kilometers. Well, then who else would ride a railroad like that?- I'm sorry. Therefore, the truth is quite different and I think it would be good if the minister was properly informed, because what he was talking about yesterday when it comes to Banat absolutely does not stand.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11180	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. We're moving on. National MP Zoran Krasic has tabled an amendment proposing that in Article 7 paragraph 5 and in all other members the words "The Railways Directorate", in a corresponding decline, replace the words "the competent ministry", in an appropriate decline. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not accepted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11181	We expected that by accepting this amendment at least a little help to keep this law in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. At the beginning of the debate in principle, I pointed out a fundamental remark that this law was practically unable to enter the procedure. First, there's no reason. Secondly, you forgot one thing, that JP was authorized to do business of public interest. So, the public railway-transport company or the public company "Serb Railways", as it will be called new, is authorised to exercise public authority, and it is being transferred to the company by this law. There's no room for guidance in the whole concept, if anyone likes it, the agency, and here it's just a termological difference. In particular, as regards this item 5, in order to make it clear to the public, it is the management of railway infrastructure, chapter - The types of railway infrastructure, Article 7 defines that "the railway infrastructure is good in general use", and so it should always be, "in the possession of the Republic of Serbia". It will always be owned by the Republic of Serbia, as another property form could not be on rail infrastructure. "The management of railway infrastructure is a work of general interest." Here, and you've confirmed it yourself, you trust the management of the railway company, and then, in the end, as from the clear sky, this position 5 goes where we ask for intervention, you say this: "A public undertaking, another form of enterprise, another legal entity or entrepreneur, in addition to the general conditions must meet specific conditions: that it has a licence to manage railway infrastructure and a safety certificate for the management of railway infrastructure, issued by the Railway Directorate. "It should be - issued by the ministry responsible for railway operations, and now it is related to the previous amendment. So, the legal-technical Republic Secretariat of legislation couldn't let go of a law like this, because whenever it's determined, it trusts which state authority will be in charge of certain tasks if it's the authority of the state administration, which is the ministries, then it's not the minister, it's said that the ministry is responsible for the affairs of rail traffic. In this way, a frequent change in the law is avoided due to various arrangements that the government will look like and how many ministries will be within one mandate and the distribution of jobs will be carried out. So there's no need to give it to a special railroad director. If you have problems on the railways with the Community of Yugoslav Railways, those "tire" buildings, etc., solve it in another way. Don't make a special directorate for those things. A logical link exists between Articles 7 and 7 of Articles 79 and 80. We have submitted amendments to these two members to show you that if the management of railway infrastructure is given to a public undertaking, it is by definition carried by the public powers conferred on this law. One of these public powers is governance, maintenance, construction, and why not say the whole traffic regime. You've singled out a small segment of these jobs to create a directorate and play something, like, God knows what's done, and you'll only see what the problems will be when you've singled out this directive if you pass this law. Now you have these personal-cadrovic problems in a stone building there. You've completely wronged the road. The existing Law on Public Enterprises and, possibly, some amendment to the existing Law on Railways would be sufficient grounds for you to move into some changes in order to eliminate the problems of inefficiency, improving security, adjudicating losses, in order to preserve that system. Whoever thinks the railroad can be a decommissioned system is wrong. It's not for free that railways are designed to have this kind of gauge and structure. Obviously, because of those directives... And besides, I have to tell you, the railways have their own special European association. Now you are referring to the European Union directives, which is by system – who gives money, let's call on it. You know, everything that's given, that money from abroad...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11182	I thank you, Mr. Krassic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milan Stevović. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The People's MP Milan Stevović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11183	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we heard two concepts here: one concept of the Law on Railways was given by the Government's Proposer, and the second concept was given by the SRS. However, regardless of the conceptal differences, Article 9 is disputed and I don't think it should be accepted, so I suggested on behalf of the SRS that this member be deleted. Article 9, for public purposes, provides that under certain conditions the right to use and operate public infrastructure can be entrusted to local self-government units. Of course, a certain requirement is needed, part of the railway is needed, part of the railway infrastructure is ineligible and an adequate decision is made on this. The conditions in which we live units of local self-government really do not have the resources, and we have heard it best here from nearly 250 MPs who spoke when they passed that law on the transfer of budgets. When we have that picture of Serbia in mind, there is absolutely a question of where this can be realized in life. So this member only has a declarative character, but he can't practically live. I'll only tell you one recorded example. Across Serbia, units of local self-government have been granted very favourable conditions for containers to transport waste from rural areas. Many community presidents call me and wonder how they can pay and arrange the transport and transport of that garbage in containers and return empty containers, because they have no means and can't organize it. Then I wonder how these local self-government units are going to organize one rail transport. From another aspect, I must shed light on this member. The point is that rail transport is very important, and there is a question of responsibility, who is responsible for the safety of rail transport. In case, God forbid, major car accidents, major material damage is caused, and the question is who is responsible in such cases. If these jobs fall for the local self-government unit, this issue will be discussed as well. I am well aware of the security system in our country, which absolutely does not work, and this aspect is also questioned by the provisions of this article. Another note, I was born at a time when the state railways owned the state and the state owned the railroad. Now, it seems that love has stopped and no more state railways, but the railway itself has given up some of its parts, and I don't know how profitable it will be in local self-government units, when at the state level it's not profitable. That's it. I suggest that the amendment be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11184	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11185	This article does not belong in this law, because it is obvious that whoever wrote this law does not know that there is a law on funds in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. Some criticized the law, so when they came to power, they began to apply it because they saw that the law was necessary. Everything that's owned by the railroad, it's state property. His own rights are being exercised by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The existing law confers the right to use has been passed on to a public enterprise that now has this great name. To see what a brilliant mind has come up with. In the chapter on types of railway infrastructure, Article 9(1) says: "The right to use and operate the part of the railway infrastructure for which the public undertaking has no economic interest", means, only economic interest and public enterprises are important, nothing more, "can be given to the unit of local self-government". How can it be given to the use and management of the Doljevac - Kursumli railways, where there is no economic interest, because if the train goes, and if it does not go, and how can it now be given the right to manage units of local self-government, and they do not have funds in the budget, perhaps even for more significant jobs representing the original competence of local self-government units? If you don't have a better way to take those tracks out and rat on them, do something else, don't give someone a bone that doesn't know what they're gonna do with it. If you give the unit to the local self-government, it should provide service, maintenance, and security of traffic, and this is probably written by a man who never sat on a train. If you wrote this, and it was probably written by a man who was never on the railroad. Furthermore, as far as the decision to transfer rights and jobs is concerned, watch out, and business influences, therefore, management affairs are passed on by the decision of the public enterprise. Then why do we need the law? Why didn't you write the law and two members only: the first member - a public enterprise, the second member - the directorate, the third member - the ministry, the transitional and final provisions, and it entered yesterday. You could've done it that way. This member, as you wrote here, is contrary to the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. This is where you said it was good for general use, and here you identified the railway line with the city square, and the city square is in good and bad use. It can't be identified. Further: "The management of the railway infrastructure referred to in Article 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act". This is impossible now. Since the municipality of Prokuplje, the municipality of Književec, because I don't believe that the rentable railway Nis - Zajcar, I think it goes there to the Prahova, I don't believe it's profitable. The one that's heading towards Bor via the Fireman, she's not rentable from a public enterprise's point of view either. That's what you're talking about in the provisions of a public enterprise, and it's only at the end of the law that we find out that this public enterprise is actually going to be the same thing with the changed name. The public enterprise cannot be so independent in the right to use and manage in general, especially if it is borne in mind that we still have the Fund Act in the possession of the Republic of Serbia. It would still be better to withdraw this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11186	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milovan Radovanovic tabled an amendment proposing that the word "minister" be replaced in Article 11(2) and in all other members, in a corresponding decline, by the words "competent ministry", in an appropriate decline. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by Parliamentarian Milovan Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11187	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11, which I have asked for the word "minister" to be replaced by the words "competent ministry". You, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the general public know that we in the SRS are in principle not in agreement with the introduction of a large number of agencies, bureaus, centres and so on. It is also the principle to give primate to the relevant state authorities in relation to the relevant functions, to highlight the importance. In this case, the law provides for Article 11(3) to determine the amount of compensation provided for in Article 1 of this Article by the Minister and to determine the amount of the licence fee. Since the licence is issued by the Railway Infrastructure Management Directorate, it may be logical if you have already established the existence of a directorate, instead of a competent ministry, and probably since we have a merger of four ministries in one ministry, at the Ministry of Capital Investment, to be one of the ministries as a Ministry of Transport and Communications. Since there is no such ministry, you may have found an adequate replacement – whether on your own, considering that it is necessary for the territory of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to railways, or with the consent and recommendation of certain people who have been your advisers in the drafting of this law from the European Union – you have set a directive that will have some meaning and you have provided for this law that exists. It might be better if the Ministry of Transport and Communications remained, because it would be determined by many issues and solutions in this area, because in this case, if the directorate is the competent authority, when it comes to the transport licences, which is the instrument issued by the competent authority to the carrier, the undertaking, the other legal person or the entrepreneur on the acquisition of the right to carry out all or specific modes of transport in railway transport, and, accordingly, the directorate, or the competent ministry, determines the price for the issue of the licence. Also, when it comes to licenses and railway infrastructure management certificates, rail transport, by the way, I'd say you made one failure, you'll agree with me, even though you're not a representative of the government, and I heard you're an expert, sir, in this area, you didn't predict who issued the railway infrastructure management certificate. You have provided in Article 13 that the Railway Directorate is obliged to issue if certain conditions are met, and the draft law does not specify the issuing authority. Suitably this sentence can be concluded that the Directorate is in charge, but that's not said. Secondly, the minister is a political figure. We have heard from certain SRS MPs, in most cases ministers are not suitable professions for certain areas dealing with the ministries they are headed. So, in this case, if the Minister of Capital Investments Mr. Velimir Ilic should determine the licence fee in railway traffic, perhaps he could do it, and there would be nothing controversial about it, but I doubt he could; because, there would be a conflict of interest to determine the price in road traffic, given that he is personally interested in road transport, he is the owner or co-owner of a large number of trucks, the skippers that cruise the roads of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, I, as an SRS MP, think that the Serbian government should withdraw this draft law on railways.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11188	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11189	So, a colleague from the SRS has submitted an amendment to Article 11. It's a bill of law. Article 11 states: "For the issue of a licence for the management of railway infrastructure, compensation is paid. The amount of compensation referred to in Article 1 shall be determined by the minister. "This Article 11 that you have proposed in this law is contrary, for example, to the next, and also to the previous member that you are predicting this law and it is obvious what I said when I spoke in principle, that this bill should be withdrawn from the procedure because it was made in haste. The point is, the law covers the entire railroad, and you didn't do it, so this law is not good. On the legal side, if we say that we disagree with the concept that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has submitted with this bill to the National Assembly, the parliamentary group of the SRS was clear there. The minister is not here right now, but I will take the opportunity to say that yesterday in his final presentation, he said that one of the MPs at the pay phone said some things that did not stand, that one of the most prominent French experts participated in writing this law. Maybe it is, it's okay, you need to hear all the people who understand in this area, so do what's best and what's closest to us when you see the economic situation in which Serbia is today as a state. The bottom line of our concept is that a public enterprise does not increase the administration on the railways. In this way, we have the reputation of two of the strongest countries of the European Union, such as Germany and France. One of the colleagues in the ruling coalition here yesterday said, I think from the Socialist Party, it doesn't matter now, that only the railways in France and Germany are 48% profitable, and the rest is being handled by the state, and that's quite clear. If there is no economic justification for one France and Germany to have more public enterprises, at least there is an economic justification that we are passing here a law that will allow the formation of two public enterprises at the level of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If you wanted to lift the railroad to the level to which it was supposed to rise, then you should have formed the railway ministry. The railway is extremely important for every country, especially for Serbia, because it is transitory and we will be part of Europe. We're gonna lift that railroad, but we're not gonna do it this way, if we make the law quick, if it doesn't cover all those areas of rail traffic, transport and everything that the railroad does. The essence of our amendments is to improve this law, to be precise and to comply with the economic conditions and times in which we live today. That's what my colleagues and I have been explaining with the amendments so far, which you have not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11190	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11191	The SRS Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 18. It's a draft law on railways. We think it should be deleted for the following reasons. I will read Article 18: "The manager can suspend the public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of railway infrastructure where public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The railway infrastructure or part of which the public transport of passengers and goods is suspended due to inertness may be converted into a manipulative rail or for other purposes and may prescribe conditions and method of use. The operator is obliged to forward the decision to suspend the transport referred to in Article 1 of this Article to carriers and authorities of local self-government and to publish in the daily papers and other means of public information, no later than six months before the date scheduled to suspend transport." First of all, as far as inertability is concerned, inability does not affect the controllers, but does not affect the public transporter. That's the point, so it's too high that the driver has the ability to suspend public transport due to inability. He could only do that in the event of a security threat. When we talk about the position of the 3rd member of the Bill on Local Self-Government Units, there is not a single unit of local self-government that can deal with rail affairs, so we have made it perfectly clear to Article 9, we need to delete, and we cannot come to terms with this part of the bill provided for in Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11192	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Rade. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Is anyone answering for this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11193	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the MPs of the SRS yesterday and today have expressed our views on this proposal for a railway law. It has been said that this law is not good, that this is not the best solution. Of course, we are aware that in the rule of law every area should be regulated by law, that everything necessary for that area should be prescribed in a certain law. The promoter may have had such an intention when it comes to the law on railways, but what we are presented as a proposal from the government is more than one descriptive text than concise legal norms. What the MPs of our parliamentary group stressed was the fact that the law cannot, no matter what law, overcome the problems that currently exist in the Serbian railway, in a very bad and negative relationship between the competent state authorities towards the railways. We have invested a number of amendments with the intention that this legal text, as far as possible, will improve and as we are not always surprised, we have not come across the understanding of the authorised representative of the Serbian Government, Mr. Minister, who is not here right now when it comes to amendments. Maybe he went to try to prevent this train strike that was announced today in the newspaper, as all the media wrote, due to various machinations, thieving, abuse, privileged position of certain union officials, insecure rail traffic, etc. All what is written today about the railway is in favour of what the SRS MPs have been saying about the area, about the competent minister, about the government's relationship to this segment. I have submitted an amendment to Article 24(1), which says: "The allocation of the route manager shall take place on equal terms, as set out in this law, for all carriers. "I suggested that the word "equal" should be deleted, because language, logical and legal, however you like, it is quite enough to say, "the allocation of the route is done under the conditions laid down by this law." It can't be "under the same conditions established by this law". The conditions are laid down by this law and they are what they are. Furthermore, I have suggested that point 4 be deleted in point 2 of this article, which says: "In the procedure required for the allocation of the route, the controller is required to apply the following criteria" and, among other things, business reputation. What is a business reputation, based on which criteria and what methodology determines business reputation, especially in this area, especially in this political and social moment. Indeed, it is very discussionable and certainly opens up the possibility and some of its own willful interpretations, not to say abuses, leads to what is already present in some other areas of the railway, which is the frame of certain political structures, from the parties of the ruling coalition, etc. If you would not accept this amendment, then only more opportunities would be opened and conditions would be created for even more abuse in the railways. Believe us that we don't need it and that as long as the situation is as it is, there's no talking about, as the minister said yesterday, we're going to fit in with the European Railways family. Believe me, with these problems as they are now in our railways, we have never been further from this European family. There is no comment on what the minister also said yesterday that the European Union wants to put order into the European Railways system. Perhaps, but not in our railways, not only because we are not a member of the European Union, but because the situation in this area is such that not all European Union experts could resolve it, and at least believe me, this law can. At least to pass the law, since I suppose, even though there seems to be no quorum now, you will be able to secure that quorum in the voting day, if you do not accept at least these amendments, that as much as this law is applicable, then you will be in the situation that you have come to every time we have warned you that you should pass laws that are applicable, that you respect our remarks. Whenever you disobeyed us, and mostly you did not, you came into a situation or we came into a situation where we had laws that were inadmissible. It's the rule of law in the last four, here's the fifth year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11194	Anyone else by this amendment? Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11195	Mr. President, please, in accordance with Article 82. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, determine if there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I'm expressing my suspicion that he doesn't exist at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11196	I ask the Members of Parliament to insert their cards into the Parliament's electronic system units. I figure there's no quorum in the O.R. right now. I'm taking a five-minute break and I'm asking everyone to stay in the O.R. until the MPs arrive. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's see if we have a quorum to continue the work. I ask the Members of Parliament to put their cards in the MPs' units. Thank you. I'm guessing we have a quorum. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorovic and Meko Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11198	Mr. President, thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as my predecessor has voiced doubts about the lack of quorum, we MPs suspect that in chapter two, point 4 of the proposed railway law, which speaks of reconstruction and modernisation, the possibility of various abuses, machinations and anything that could lead to possible criminal acts will appear. In fact, it is about building, reconstructing and modernising railway infrastructure. We have submitted an amendment to Article 30(2). I'll quote item 1 to explain a little bit: "If the railway infrastructure is to be reconstructed for the construction of another facility (public road, mine, quarry, accumulation lake, airport etc.), part of the railway infrastructure being reconstructed must be built with elements corresponding to the category of the railway infrastructure, regardless of the real state in which it was located at the moment of reconstruction." Item 2 on which we have the amendment says: "The costs of the reconstruction of the railway infrastructure referred to in Article 1 are borne by the investor of the facility for which the reconstruction of the railway infrastructure is carried out, unless otherwise agreed by the investor and the manager." Now, in the SDP, this is exactly what bothers us: "if the investor and the manager don't agree differently". Because, you'll allow, there's a possibility that the investor and the manager can agree to, in this case, the ZTP, on the basis of their massive assets, be restructured and built up of some objects, and one of the two participants gets some cash compensation in his private pockets. Unfortunately, we have witnessed in the past period when building some roads and reconstructing the airport that such a thing is possible. Therefore, in the SDP, co-worker Ljiljana Nestorovic and I, we have submitted an amendment that these words "if no other agreement is made between the investor and the manager" are deleted and that the following words are inserted: "and if the railway infrastructure is built into the elements of Article 1 of this article which did not exist at the moment of reconstruction, the investor and the manager will specifically determine the amount of these costs and will determine financing by agreement". Simply, this Article 30, paragraph 2, to which we have submitted the amendment is contradictory, as the investor's stated obligation to bear the costs of reconstruction, as I have just explained, can be completely modified by this subsequent agreement with the controller. With this proposed amendment, we are trying to specify that the subject of the agreement can only be paying the costs of installing additional elements on railway infrastructure. In a response submitted by the Government by rejecting this amendment, it is said that the amendment is not accepted because its acceptance would limit the possibility of additional simultaneous works on railway infrastructure, i.e. if the manager takes up works that are not conditioned by building an facility. We're just asking that the investor bear all the costs of returning the railway infrastructure to its original state, not just for what is modernization, i.e. installation of elements that were not, and only in that case can they be agreed, so that these costs can be compensated. It could be the ZTP, the investor, we don't mind, but only in that part. In the SDP, we believe that the response to our amendment by the Government is not an answer to Article 30(2), but rather to the construction of a railway infrastructure that is conditioned by the construction of another facility. I think the government will be so reasonable as to accept this proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11199	Thank you. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Mezo Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11200	Mr. President, we have submitted an amendment to Article 46(1). It's a bill of law. I would remind you that item 1 reads: "In the protective belt, buildings cannot be built, installations and devices can be built and other buildings are built at a distance of less than 25 meters, counting from the axis of the final track, except for objects in the function of railway traffic". We suggest that the number of 25 meters increase to 50 meters. All of what we think is a very small difference, because of the noise, because of vibration and ultimately, and because of the humanization of life, we think it would be the most ideal 100 meters, but if the government's proposal is 25 meters, I think the minimum of 50 meters is also acceptable to the promoter. Because we shouldn't just look at the existing situation; we're making the law for the future, so I guess we should also look for new construction and for modernising railway infrastructure. I don't think one mistake can be corrected by making a new mistake in the proposed law. We're looking for something that will apply in the future, because neither this law nor any law can be retroactive. In response from the Government to our proposed amendment, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted because 25 meters is enough to protect the railway infrastructure." The government doesn't say anything else but that it's 25 meters long enough. Apparently, they've mixed up some pots, because these reasons they're talking about, that to protect the railway infrastructure is enough 25 meters, they don't stand. Well, here, I'll just give you one plastic parallel. A few days ago, we witnessed that a concert by popular folk music star Cece Raznatovic was held in the city of Minister of Capital Investments Velimir Ilic, in Cačka. The stage, or stage from which the Chacans were watching the concert, was designed so that viewers and Chacans were about 15-20 meters away from Ceca. Now, if a building called the stage we're building from ordinary people to 15-20 meters, I think that state property like the railroad deserves a much better treatment, because it's also about living people who are supposed to build living buildings, live, work, raise their children, and therefore we think that 50 meters, as we predict this amendment, will be accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11201	Thank you for the good eye. On the occasion of the same amendment, Mr Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11202	I don't quite understand this explanation of Mr. Omerovic about his amendment and these 25 meters. I accidentally attended the committee on which he defended and explained his amendment. It seems to me, Mr. Omerovic, that you were satisfied with the explanation then. This explanation of your amendment and connection to Cece Raznatovic's concert in Cačka is a little too high. By the way, let me inform you, I think you missed a big event, that you weren't in Chačka to celebrate the Serbian New Year, and the citizens were three to four meters from the stage, very disciplined and joyful.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11203	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minić. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Nestorović and Meho Omerovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Meho Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11204	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Article 68 of Article 2 discusses emergency situations. Proposer i.e. In Article 68(2), the government said that emergency situations in terms of attitude 1: major natural disasters, extraordinary events that have arisen (see now this) from human activity, which result in environmental hazards; disturbances in the functioning of the economy of larger scales. On our amendment, which said that the words "emergency events arising from human activity and" are deleted, the government responds - the amendment is not accepted for reasons that emergency events can arise not only for reasons of human negligence and negligence, but can be caused by intent. So, it cannot be accepted that our formulation that human activities change in the words "human negligence and negligence"; the government responds that these human activities can be caused with intent. That's partly true, but negligent doesn't rule out intent. Neglect means a certain form of responsibility. In order to satisfy the Government of the Republic of Serbia and reconcile these two opposing positions, and to correct in this part the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the word that is absolutely inappropriate, so "human activities" has been changed through our amendment and we have suggested that the words "emergency events resulting from human activity" be deleted and replaced by the words that I have proposed. And without that member, I think it's quite clear what it's about, because human activity means creative work, industriousness, laborability, zeal. As a rule, human activity can have no threat to the environment, but on the contrary, only human activity can be aimed at preventing, even endangering, the environment. That is why we have suggested that these words be deleted, because even without these provisions, we think that the law is clear, and that it be clear to the end we suggest that Article 2 of this article's position reads: "The emergency situations in terms of the position of the 1st member are seen as major natural disasters; emergency events that result in environmental hazards; disturbances in the functioning of the economy of larger proportions". I think that's quite enough, so this "who's come from human activity" thing can only bother us and it's languagely quite incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11205	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Vojislav Milajic has tabled an amendment proposing that the name of Chapter 4 above Article 78 be deleted and Article 78 be amended. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11206	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for this law provides for the establishment of a new public enterprise – the Railway Directorate, which is entrusted to carry out professional work in the field of rail transport, regulatory work and other tasks provided for in this law. However, there is a second public company, a public company called the Railways of Serbia, which is in fact doing the type of business, and this law doubles institutions, forming two public enterprises. The final provisions, Articles 93, 94 and 95, regulate the termination of the work of the Public Railway Transport Company "Belgrade" and the Yugoslav Railways Community, where rights, obligations, jobs, employees and documentation are scheduled to be taken over by the public undertaking "The Railways of Serbia". As far as the Yugoslav Railways Community is concerned, there is an even more confusing situation because it is Article 95. The bill provides for jobs, rights, obligations, documentation and employees to take over the newly formed Directorate for Railways and the public undertaking "Serb Railways", however, it does not specify in what extent, which documentation, which rights and obligations are taken over by one public undertaking, which is taken over by another. We think that forming a Directorate for Railways is an extremely irrational solution that burdens the budget and doubles the institutions of the system. In fact, there will be two public enterprises, which will not be known exactly what the information of one, which is another and will result in overlapping transactions related to the area of rail transport and regulatory affairs. We believe, according to the SRS concept, that there should be one public enterprise and that public company "Serb Railways".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11207	Is there anyone else on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 79 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Djordjevic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11208	Ladies and gentlemen, the difference between the draft law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly and what it proposes to its amendments to the SRS parliamentary group is seen in this Chapter IV on the formation of a new public enterprise - the Railway Directorate, as my colleague Milajic made clear in the light of the previous amendment to Article 78. Article 79. The draft law in paragraph 1 provides at 23 points what these are to be done by a public railway company. According to the concept submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly, the bill made it clear that railways do not have the level of importance, as all MPs of the ruling coalition for the speaker spoke. The bottom line is that it is necessary to divide the competences between the competent ministry. According to the SRS proposal, the public undertaking "Serb Railways" would have the following competences. So, by amendment to Article 79, we have proposed, and we have made it clear that Article 79 is changed and read: The public undertaking "Serb Railways" performs the following tasks: 1) develops technical regulations, normative and standards in the area of rail traffic; 2) participates in the preparation of regulations and agreements in the area of rail transport; 3) approves technical documentation relating to construction, reconstruction and modernisation of railway infrastructure; 4) gives consent to the act on the conditions for construction, reconstruction, maintenance and protection of industrial track, railways and other means and for the organisation and regulation of rail traffic on the industrial track; etc. All the way to point 13), where we have clearly separated the part for which the ministry should be competent. All that differs from this concept proposed by the Government is clear by the fact that the concept proposed by the Government to the National Assembly by the Proposal for this Law and by Article 50 of this Law, which was previously, no one submitted an amendment to Article 50, but the essence of this Article of the 50th is that this law does not cover all areas of rail traffic. The very fact that this bill provides for the establishment of two public undertakings and that this railway directorate would have the authority to issue certificates, licences, licences, etc. shows the nature of this law. It is true that it is according to the EU's physiology study, whose representatives came in the period when the previous DS government, whose representatives also talked about this speaker that they wrote this law, but in this area, as in all other areas, did nothing. The fact is, they came and they left. Of course, Serbia will not bypass the EU, as the minister here may have tried to intimidate MPs if we do not pass the law quickly, etc., that Serbia will now bypass through Romania and Bulgaria. Serbia will not be bypassed by Europe, because Serbia is in Europe. When a law is passed here, the point is that it should be of general interest to all citizens of Serbia and that our railways rise to a higher level of organisation and be compatible with European railways. Whether and when we enter the European Union – well, if the Democrats who were full of stories about Europe were in power and now that they are part of the government and part of the opposition, we would not come to terms in 33 years to join the European Union. The bottom line of this bill is that the previous government... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... She had a chance to get this job started and she had that chance. By referring to what the previous government did, I can say that in the area of rail traffic, she did nothing. They have done great damage in Serbia, to the citizens of Serbia. It's the DS that's the biggest culprit for the whole state in the society that we're in today. The bottom line is that you who now rule Serbia don't need these laws to be passed in a hurry. If you're bringing them in, you should bring them in precisely and clearly. Our concepts here are clear and I do not understand why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has rejected all 14 amendments of the SRS parliamentary group, and not only for this law, but also for many other laws. We're trying to help you in this business, as the strongest game. We are the opposition, but we won't be a long opposition, but in the next election... (President: Thank you, six minutes.) )......................................................................................................... We will win and we will be the ruling party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11209	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 80 of the amendment was submitted by MP Petar Jojic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11210	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have tabled an amendment to Article 80 and suggested that certain amendments be made. In fact, the bill provides for a directorship, and we believe it will be a future agency. The SRS is against the agencies, as agencies are mainly set up to carry out certain tasks, and in practice it has been shown that the parties want to hire their members and friends in those agencies. We don't think it's effective to form such agencies, and I said, that rail directorate would look like and be essentially an agency. Members of the SRS point out the fundamental changes to be made in the proposed law in order to significantly improve the text of the law. That's why I suggested to be in Article 80. The bill shall be implemented by the following amendments, in place of the directorate of certain works in the railway area, by the competent railway ministry. First, to issue a licence for the management of railway infrastructure. Second, to issue a safety certificate for the management of railway infrastructure, or industrial railways. Third, she's issuing a transport licence. Fourth, issue a safety certificate for rail transport. Fifth, it decides on complaints against the rejected or updated bids for the conclusion of a contract on the use of railway infrastructure. Sixth, issue licences for the use of newly built railway facilities and vehicles, new types of parts and equipment for railway vehicles and new types of devices, parts and equipment for railway infrastructure. Seven, keep records of issued licences, certificates and permits. Eight, to give an opinion on the five-year work plan and the development of a public enterprise. The ninth, to give an opinion on the annual public business programme. The 10th, to give an opinion on the annual programme for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure, the organisation and regulation of railway transport by public undertakings. Eleventh, to do other jobs according to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, these are state affairs. So far it's been a matter of special importance to the state. We in the SRS are of the opinion that these jobs I have listed should be carried out by the railway department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11211	Is anyone else coming forward on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Bozidar Koprivica submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11212	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 81. The draft law on railways, by proposing that the member be deleted. In previous amendments to Articles 78, 79 and 80, my esteemed colleagues and party friends, the SRS MPs, presented a concept representing the SRS that advocates the abolition of all agencies that are being set up and thus additionally burden the budget and thus drags their hand into the pocket of our poor citizens. The Serbian Radical Party believes that there is no economic justification for forming a railway directorate, as a public enterprise, given that the bill provides for the establishment of a public undertaking "Serb Railway", which is to be carried out by the ZTP "Belgrade". The establishment of a directorate would lead to unnecessary spending of budgetary resources, unnecessary increases in administration and the creation of parallel public enterprises. Article 81, which I have proposed to delete, speaks of the resources necessary for the establishment and operation of the Directorate, and these funds are currently being allocated from the budget. Therefore, on behalf of the SRS, I proposed that this member be deleted and in accordance with the SRS's stated concept. Please adopt this amendment, that would mean saving, cutting costs, reducing the administration, reducing the budget cuts. I appeal to you, honourable MPs, to adopt this SRS proposal and adopt this amendment of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11213	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 91 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Markicevic. The proposing representative and the Transport and Connection Committee adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 93rd amendment was submitted by MP Milomir Minic. The government has not accepted this amendment, the Transport and Connection Committee has adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11214	On behalf of the SPS, fellow Members of Parliament, I proposed an amendment to oblige the Serbian government to adopt a railway consolidation programme by 31 March. The reasons are numerous. The railroad has been operating with losses over the last four years, so it's doing business with a seven-billion deficit. For this year, the current one, the railway lacks four billion dinars for ongoing financing, owes several hundredm euros to international banks from previous years. Any serious state that has passed such a law and has entered such changes as property, capacity, organisation and management, and where a successful commercial enterprise is wanted, there is no way it will succeed without such a consolidation programme and sound finance. The government is responding that it will resolve this by deciding to set up a company, but that is not possible. So there must be a legal obligation and I think it's necessary to pass a debt management law of this rail-transport system if we really want them to take responsibility for a successful business, otherwise, without it, there's no way. How did other countries do that? We're talking about it here, and sometimes it's serious, and sometimes it's unserious, there are experiences in several European countries, and I know that our ministry is familiar with that. When the French government passed such a law for French railways in 1983, it took over the financing of these debts for 12 years. So, you can't solve the financial problems of the railroad here on a shorter deadline. I appeal to the government and my fellow Members to accept this amendment, because it is the only way we will succeed in achieving those objectives that are declared by this law. Secondly, the railway needs to be freed from paying compensation for the use of infrastructure. It is true that the EU, in its directive on which we rely and which we operate, is bound to pay for the infrastructure, and only three or four countries in Europe have adopted it. So it commits to that legal norm, because they have stable laws, they last a long time, although it is true that in such large processes these laws change. What's our obligation? It is our obligation to provide access to foreign railway operators so that they can use our infrastructure for some highway tracks by 2003 and for all railways in 2008. So, what's the experience? These big operators won't come, because I don't think there's a clear understanding in our public what compensation is. Today, road traffic in Europe and in our country is so powerful compared to the railways that if we were to charge the price of transport by rail and pay compensation for using the infrastructure, simply no one would run the railways. I will set an example of a neighbouring country that is a candidate for 2007 to become an EU member, which is Bulgaria's state rail. They've introduced a payment fee. Right after a year, they saw that there was no one to pay and they started to shut down. Our committee supported this amendment, because if we don't, we'll have a good legal standard, practice will be different, we'll go from hollow to empty. Each country has introduced a transitional period, and according to the latest optimistic estimates, we will become a member of the EU in 2012. Everyone had a transitional period. Don't make the standard of paying for what we won't be able to pay for, because the state has made so much of a commitment to this law that it will simply have a great deal of trouble to make it happen. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11215	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Otherwise, we have three more amendments, you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11216	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment we speak of has two positions. The first concerns the government's obligation to implement a JP business consolidation programme within three months. That's what I was talking about in the principle debate, and with this one-time attitude, obliging the government to do what it normally is its job, it doesn't make sense. It is realistic that we expect this government to do so in the next period. This is its commitment stemming from the economic policy projected for 2005, when we adopted the Budget Law and it clearly states that restructuring of public enterprises in 2005 and in the coming years will be one of the priorities of economic policy. I don't see why the law in this formulation should contain all that is the government's obligation, i.e. the Resolute Ministry to do when it comes to the JP "The Railways of Serbia". Let's let the government do its job. I'm sure such a provision in the railway law would not further oblige the government to do or that after three months, the government does not respect its work. There are other mechanisms to oblige the government to do what needs to be done and this stems from the concept of the law that is under discussion today in the Assembly. The second view relating to the release of the public undertaking "The Railways of Serbia" payment of compensation for the use of infrastructure is indeed contrary to the law we are talking about. Article 5 of that Law speaks of the use of rail infrastructure by all interested users under absolutely equal conditions. So we said that one of the affirmative sides of this law is that it separates governance and the efficiency of the use in the transport of goods and services, therefore, to create competitiveness, that this will increase the efficiency of Serbia's railways. And now, with one position in a member of the law, in the part of the final and transitional provisions, we favour the JP and completely release it from paying compensation for the use of infrastructure. Then I wonder what the purpose of Article 5 is that everyone will use the same conditions as the railway infrastructure and the 26th member who says that the users of the railway infrastructure will pay compensation in a manner determined by the government, i.e. the resolution ministry. So, this amendment is generally unacceptable and it is completely, with this second view on the release of compensation payments, contrary to some European norms, to all that today is European practice, and we advocate that this law be a legal basis for the integration of Serbia's rail into the EU system. I don't think this proposed amendment can stand in this law. I do not think that we have thus denied the possibility of accessing the restructuring of JP "Serb Railways" and to take care of whether the JP in that sector where it is engaged in the transport of goods and services can be competitive and can, within a short time, carry out quality and competitive transport of goods and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11217	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Yeah. ) Dragan Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11218	We also said that one of the most important items that this law potentials is integration into European rail transport systems. In order for us to get into it and in order for us to even think about it in such a way, it is quite clear, I repeat what Mr. Minić said, a transitional period is needed. How much the transitional period will depend on how fast and efficient we will be working on the rehabilitation and economic consolidation of both the infrastructure and the public enterprises that will benefit from this infrastructure and the selection of other enterprises where we will expose all public undertakings to rail transport. In that sense, I remind you that when we adopted some previous system laws from similar areas, we also had similar proposals, which came across the same comments that we just heard. This amendment is not designed to challenge competition, it is very necessary, but it is true, with all that we have heard about the state in which the JP is currently located, that it will not only absolutely not be able to compete with some other companies that are potentially involved in the operation of railway transport, but will not be able to take over that performance function under certain conditions unless the Government has started some mechanisms. The government will build up this company with its founding acts and will be state-owned. Basically what can be done is to adopt an economic consolidation programme and to prepare the company for a competitive fight in a shorter period. To be perfectly honest, we don't expect to see any new companies showing up here in the next month to compete for infrastructure use and management. Of course not. This infrastructure is not attractive either in this sense that some good and strong companies will want to use it. Today we are talking about the fact that our tracks are moving at a speed of 40 kilometers an hour, and now we say that we cannot enter Europe tomorrow if we introduce this principle and bring such amendments. We will enter Europe once we have qualified our systems to be compatible with European. Not before, not later, and we will not be helped by any laws, no regulations. They can only help the economic measures that will enable our systems and our infrastructures, our businesses to drive at these infrastructures at 100, 200, or I don't know how many miles an hour. Then we will enter Europe, because Europe will neither be able to avoid us. I'll remind you of another fact. When we passed the Energy Act here, we had quite a similar amendment and it was a similar story. They weren't adopted and we couldn't get into the law any elements that would not commit to the government but simply edit that area. It's no obligation and no dictatorship to the government. It's just the arrangement of the area, which is actin' and which programs have to be brought in. We didn't bring this up then, and now we're witnessing the situation that, let's say, the dynamics of the electric energy price movement, to which the public company "Electroprivreda" accounts and very seriously implements in its current and long-term programmes, and now we're coming up with a situation that some politicians simply appear in the media and say – from the increase in electricity prices there's nothing. That's what happens in the end. If not in full amount, and at least in half, so one serious, strong and essential enterprise for this country puts it in a position that it simply cannot implement its plans or plan. In order for this to not happen with railway companies, this amendment is very meaningful, and I need it, and I find it strange why the government didn't accept this. It would be very interesting to hear the government's argument to whom it bothers and what are the motives not to bring an economic consolidation programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11219	One urgent announcement: a continuation of the 43rd session of the Administrative Board will be held immediately in the second floor room. The session is closed to the public. Please, if there are any members of the Administrative Board present, since it's a very important matter. On the occasion of the same amendment, Mr. Djordjevic reported, so Mr. Krasic. Just one correction, it was probably a lapus, so that we don't leave the wrong impression: vice versa, until all the laws are passed, they won't enter Europe, they will testify, as you know, to the examples of all these countries, and after the adoption of the law, and if you enter Europe, you will have a certain period of time to comply with these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11220	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course there should be one transitional period, and when we talk about railing and restructuring it, we need to make sure that 27,000 workers work on the railway. What is the essence of this bill, in the case of this amendment, it is seen that the law is not well-conceived and gives us the right to tell you about this speaker that its basic concept is not good. The fact must be respected, and I have said in my previous presentation, you all know very well that the studies that the European Union has foreseen for this part of the countries of the former Eastern Europe, as they say, exactly predict that our railways are adapted to the European Union's railways by 2013 and that certain investments and loans are strictly intended by the European Union, as they are for the countries in the environment. Therefore, a clear concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia is in one part that the law in this area should be passed, but should not be brought at any cost and at any rate. These amendments by the SRS aim to specify this law, because it is extremely important for us that the railway works, as well as in all the countries in the environment that have accepted the proposals by the European Union, or the Council of Ministers, as you in each proposal know to say in an explanation, in the reasons for the adoption of the law. All we have to do is accept what suits us and how economically it suits us as a state. It is clear that for every law that we bring here, the ruling parties have the greatest responsibility, but I would refer to the presentation of certain MPs of the Democratic Party who said that nothing has been done in this area, without giving clear facts about the period of sanctions, etc. The fact is that only in the period between 1992 and 2000 did all the projects at the CIP Transport Institute and how you from the Democratic Party like to say that when you want to laugh, you say - Serbia's fast tracks. These projects were never called -- for Serbia's high-speed railways and highways, but they were called -- the modernisation of the highways, so that our railways could be able to be integrated into this European rail system later on when all this is done. And the bottom line is that the previous government of the Democratic Party has not reconstructed a single kilometer of railways, highways; neither have they done a single project. So I think you were just telling an empty story about this pay phone. Also, we resent this government for the fact that the law is not well-conceived; economic justification for law-making must be taken into account and there is no basis for forming two public undertakings at railway level.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11221	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11222	In the end, it was confirmed, in fact, by this amendment, the applicant of the amendment said the law was wrong. He rightly located the problem of our railroad. This amendment is the biggest slap on this bill. This amendment makes it clear that and when you adopt this bill, there will be no financial, economic and any other consolidation of this company or of this company when you change its name. The other thing, someone was just talking about government obligations. The government's first and primary obligation is to enforce laws, to enforce laws. What would they do if it wasn't in the law? They are rightly asked to offer the programme within three months, to do the programme, and when it is written in law, then it is a legal obligation of the government, so we can call the government on a deadline, because of the quality of the acts, etc. However, when it comes to this public enterprise, the government's obligation exists under the Law on Public Enterprises, so that one public enterprise does not launch bankruptcy proceedings against another public enterprise. When it comes to state-owned enterprises, you know, bankruptcy is excluded, but we also have a bankruptcy procedure. Experts came, so now they're running bankruptcy proceedings against state-owned enterprises. That's all there is to us, and there's nowhere on the globe of the Earth. As for the second part of the amendment, about the fee, and that part of the amendment shows the futility of this law. Now when strangers pass by here pay that fee, it's calculated, so at the end of the year there's some franc etc. And that's income. And this amendment has helped us come up with the essence of why this law is passed. This law is passed because of the main corridor that needs to be sorted out, redecorated, trained as much as possible, and by the way to cancel some operating costs, inert railways, by system – we have solved it all, here, if you need the railroad in Zaječar, here is the railroad, if you need the railroad in Prokuplje, here is the railroad, we don't care; we are interested in Shid according to Kumanov, we are interested in Subotica towards Kumanov. That's what you "we" interpret "them," the ones who care to run through here in a few hours. This is practically the future offered by this bill. Economic justification, rentability of some railways, etc., it's gone. Now someone here is trying to question compensation to put in the same position as the one who bought some used locomotive, reorganized, leased 10-20 cars abroad and transferred the cargo across our territory, used our infrastructure, there's no dubiosis from the past. He can pay the fee and he needs to pay the fee. And with that, it should be equal to our railway company, the part that deals with transport. That's impossible. If you do not release them, they are already losers, how can they pay you. This is where the state rehabilitates them, and this is where he asks for compensation. That's illogical. He who has none shall be helped, and ye shall help him with one hand, you shall help him, and you shall take everything from him. You didn't believe me, you didn't trust the SRS. Here, now you have your amendment, we will vote for this amendment, because it shows how pointless this bill is. It's a simple ID, a change, not a five-pointer anymore, but a crown, and nothing else. As for the previous ones, they removed the tracks; not that they were not setting, but that they were removing.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11223	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Zlatan Jovanovic. The government and the Transport and Relationship Committee have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want to say that? Yeah. ) Here you are, Ambassador Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11224	Ladies and gentlemen, I have submitted an amendment to Article 94 which I suggest that this member be deleted. Article 94. The draft law on railways reads: "The Railway Directorate will start work by 1 January 2005 at the latest." Of course, it is clear from the very formulation of this article that there are several reasons for eradicating or at least changing this article. I suggest erasing for a fundamental reason, and that is our principled disagreement with this concept as offered by this proposal. Since 2001, since the DOS came to power, over 100-150 laws have been passed in this assembly for the four years, and very few have brought any new agency into this country. All these agencies are just a new burden and an imposition on Serbian citizens, an increase in bureaucracy, its multiplication, because they have mostly taken over the jobs that the ministries were supposed to do. In this law, we have an original idea. Minister Ilic did not want Vlasi to know, instead of the agency, foresaw the directorate. It's not a neck. It's a neck. Now this law doesn't set up an agency, it's a railroad directorate, which is one and the same. Another legal person will be established to take over mainly the affairs of the ministry or the affairs of the Public Undertaking of Serbia, and we will have a new bureaucracy, a new impose on Serbian citizens, because it will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As for the directorship itself and its status in this law, it has been processed in only four members of this proposal. Article 78 says the directorate is being established and its headquarters is in Belgrade. Article 79 speaks of its competences, where it is said that the Directorate is performing certain professional tasks, but that it also carries out some regulatory and other tasks. Article 80 speaks of a director (meaning that she has a legal personality) appointed by the Republic Government on a proposal from the Minister. Article 81 speaks of the means for the work of this Directorate and how they are provided. There are, as can be seen from the order listed here, dominant funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is exactly supporting what I just said, that this Directorate will also be a new imposition to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the director's jurisdiction is concerned, I've already said, part of these powers is of professional character, and part of it is regulatory. We believe that this section that is professional should be carried out by the Public Undertaking of Serbia, and this second part has been in charge of the Ministry of Transport and Communications or today of the Ministry of Capital Investments. So, we think it's excessive to set up another directorate or another agency, as you will; that this is a new imposition, because it will mainly be financed from the budget; that our experience with agencies that have been set up so far is extremely bad, negative; that a good part of those agencies just confirms this story that it is bureaucratisation, that they treat Serbian citizens and those of whom are otherwise directly and alive, who are supporting them, and that therefore this whole section of the directive in this proposal should be deleted. I would also ask the promoter to intervene and, for this second, formal reason, because here in the proposal, the directorate, if adopted this way, starts working at the latest by 1 January 2005. Since that deadline has passed, at least coordinate to be correct, because this law is likely to be passed at the end of February or March of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-01-19-0.u11225	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We're finishing today's session. According to Article 81(4), I'm setting a continuance for Monday 24 at 10.00 hours, but please, now that the transfer is terminated, I have to give you one more piece of information. Thank you. I ask the MPs to be in the largest number tomorrow, speak to their heads of Parliament, in the Assembly at 10.00 p.m. It is possible that the Assembly will have to hold one five-minute emergency session, related to the immunity of judges, as it was this summer, since it is an obligation to complete it by 12:00. The Management Board will be in session at 10.00 hours, for two minutes, and soon afterwards it will likely begin a brief emergency session with the signatures of all. I'm terribly sorry, but it wasn't possible otherwise. Thank you very much.
