ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, in this Article 125, is said to have the right of employees to pay their earnings and to pay their wages during their absence from work due to temporary prevention of work under health insurance regulations that was required to be paid by the employer, in accordance with this law, for the last nine months before the bankruptcy proceedings were launched. It's a solution per proposing, in this law. We have suggested that employees have the right to compensation for sickness and income for a period for which compensation and earnings are not paid, so all the time, and that could be a year, 18 months. It is our opinion that this whole member is unclear, and in particular this provision, that the proposed solutions are unfair, that the payment of outstanding earnings to enterprises in bankruptcy is limited to nine months before the bankruptcy proceedings are launched. So we're saying that the employee, whose company is in bankruptcy, gets all the outstanding profits and benefits. There's one more thing in here that's unclear. Who's gonna make the payment? Is this going to be done by an employer, by the Health Insurance Office or by someone else? If it's an employer, he has obligations when it comes to sick leave for a month, and for over a month, all payments are made by the Health Insurance Office. Is there anyone who can impose a obligation on the Health Insurance Office to pay these benefits too? It's known by the law that the Health Insurance Service pays the sick and those companies that don't pay their salaries. But the moment the company goes bankrupt, there's no obligation at all for the Health Insurance Service. Most likely, the promoter, the government, the minister, here thought that these funds would be paid by the National Employment Service, and that's the only possible solution. If so, then we feel that this proposal is very involved. In the practice of Europe, when it comes to these situations, these compensations take place for a period of nine months to at least 18 months. Why didn't we take this solution that's best for employees and people who are going to lose their jobs, because the company, the company, is going bankrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11948	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11949	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, just for a moment, why it is important that this amendment, submitted by Tom Busetic, be accepted. So, because in practice we have a catastrophic situation. I'm just going to name two firms as a case where the situation is extremely alarming. The company "Fagram" from Smederev, a firm that was once the pride of the Serbian economy, and also of the Yugoslav economy, has come into such a situation because of unresolved relations, because it is not known who pays back wages in the event of bankruptcy, what Mr. Busetic was talking about, has come to the situation that workers are suing the company. And the court ruled that workers can collect property from this company to make up for their residual earnings. We had a side situation where a machine was carried out, an abduction around a machine. It is a similar situation in the Godomin PKK, where the administrative authorities of Godomina decide to go to privatisation. The decision is extremely casual, I don't know who it was learned from, because it had to be known that much of the property, primarily land, is state property, and that as such a company cannot go to privatisation. Now, given that privatisation could not occur in the meantime, it is such that workers are suing the Combinate, the court is ruling that the worker has the right to compensation for the personal incomes left behind and it is only asking whether in "The Lord", as well as in "Fagram", that it will come to practical workers because of the verdict, which is judicial judgments, amounting to equipment, part of the equipment, or how they make up for what the court has done. Therefore, I think that this amendment is extremely important, therefore, for the member to be precise and clear, how, from which funds and who is obliged to settle what belongs to workers on behalf of the backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11950	Member of the 125th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Rankic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11951	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the amendment to Article 125 of the Labour Act refers to item 1 point 1) – earnings and fees during the absence of work due to temporary prevention under the health insurance rules which was required to be paid by the employer, in accordance with this law, for the last nine months before the bankruptcy procedure was launched. So the employee has the right to pay off. The amendment proposes that it be 12 months, and it is really unclear to us by which mathematics, by which parameters, financial, logical or otherwise, the proposer came to the right number for nine months. Twelve months could be an acceptable time limit, and you will remember that a bankruptcy procedure law has been passed and that the Agency for the Licensing of Bank Managers has been established, and there is still uncertainty as to how and who is obliged to pay all this. You see, Article 124(2) states that the rights are, in the case of payments made under the first position of that member, made in accordance with this law, and if they are not paid in accordance with the law governing bankruptcy proceedings. So they can be paid under the bankruptcy Act. As I already explain the amendment to Article 125, the final position of this member states that the employee has the right to also pay contributions to compulsory social security for payments referred to in point (1) of Article 1(1) of this Article, in accordance with the regulations of compulsory social security. It is very often for us that the legislator will not be completely clear and that everything he has provided for in the law makes it much clearer for both the MPs and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There was no need for this last attitude. It could have been inserted into the first point, and then it would have been - it has the right to compensation during the absence due to temporary prevention under the Health Insurance Act, but it has the right and compensation under the mandatory social security law. You know that this mandatory social security is practically divided into pension and disability and unemployment insurance. And in order to make this worth the while, it is foreseen to continue in the law to set up a solidarity fund. The Solidarity Fund will, of course, be charged out of the Republic of Serbia's budget and, if there remains an surplus of solidarity funds, it will be paid into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from which the employment programme will be financed. However, there is no law on what if there is not enough resources in the Solidarity Fund to pay off any claim made by Article 125 that is required to perform an employer or someone else who is obliged to pay for it. Also, it's completely unclear to us, we know that under the Law on the bankruptcy procedure, this procedure is armed and can end in bankruptcy or bankruptcy, or practically healing the company. Given that the economic situation is what it is, the largest number of bankruptcy procedures will be ended by bankruptcy. Secondly, it will be a small motive to launch a bankruptcy procedure at all, given that the person who initiates the bankruptcy procedure should provide money for the application of the bankruptcy procedure. The question is who will have the motive to initiate bankruptcy proceedings, especially when, after the bankruptcy procedure has been carried out, the money invested in the conduct of the bankruptcy procedure may not be returned, let alone claims if the bankruptcy proceedings are initiated by someone who has claims against a particular economic operator. So, it's a minimum of 12 months, some minimum, which could provide some kind of security to those workers who will be out of work during the bankruptcy process, and we think that this amendment should be adopted in the voting day, and it would be good for those MPs who support the majority to read at least some parts of this law and to practically accept our opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11952	The word has an MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11953	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to understand Article 125, the preceding article 124 and Articles 126 and 127 should be read carefully. They're connected, they're conditioned, and then they can only understand the provisions of Article 125 in general. It has already been said that the proposer in the wording of earnings and profit compensation for this period, not to quote the provisions of the law, had one provision, that the compensation of earnings in terms of health insurance rules, which is under the obligation of the employer to pay it over a period of more than 30 days when sick leave took place, goes to the burden of the Institute. So, he's counting and paying off an employer from the Bureau's funds. It's in article 51. The Health Insurance Act is a very strictly prescribed procedure. So, based on the accounts of the employer, the Institute lays down the rights and transfers within five days to the organisation, and the organisation is obliged to pay the funds to the employees. In the event of a 30-day stay, those funds will be returned, with interest for as long as they were on the employer's account. Those funds cannot be the subject of execution, except for the purpose for which they are given. From where the employer is obliged to pay off funds for the last nine months since the bankruptcy, when it is practically impossible, except for that part of the funds relating to the sick leave for up to 30 days. It's the first absurd. The complexity of all this is seen by the fact that Article 124 lays down the law, and Article 125 states the basics in four points. Article 125(1) states that all that the employer was obliged to pay will be paid in the amount of minimum earnings and all that for those nine months from the moment of the bankruptcy proceedings. What's going on with these rules? All those employees who have been without a payout for months will be damaged, or compensation. It will not be covered by the insurance internship and will practically be affected by the largest number of workers, who lived in poor and difficult conditions and waited for the employer to create conditions for working and paying off earned earnings. This is inadmissible for a lot of reasons. When you look a little more closely at what the proposer had in mind, it mostly comes down to enterprises that are in the social sector or enterprises where the state is the majority owner of capital. It has been shown that the state is a bad employer, that the state practically wants to damage all creditors, and in this case the workers, who earned that profit that wasn't paid to them during the period when the company wasn't in a position to pay the earned profits, and thus only a fraction, and that's the minimum part of the profits to pay the employees. It will damage them thus, depending on the case to the case, for a period of years; they will not be covered by an insurance service, which is inadmissible. Workers will be deluded into having a practical internship in the book, and by not paying contributions for pension and disability in the home records there will be no information that they have had an insurance internship and will not be able to exercise the right to pension and disability insurance. It's a complicated and difficult task, but this formulation is so made, which our people would say -- that Vlasi don't remember, and it's extremely incorrect for a large number of employees in the social sector, where it's going to be very difficult to achieve certain pension-inhabitation rights. Because, you know, parent records obligations, by the end of April, every employer was required, through the M-4 application of earnings and time spent at work, to deliver to the home services of pension disability insurance. It's not done. And if the state doesn't solve this problem, there will be a huge problem of social unrest and a large number of disputes. The example works, just to connect to this provision, which even speaks in the act where it is ruled by a judicial verdict, that only half of what is judged is paid. Where's the legal certainty? Imagine, for example, that an employee had a dispute against the employer referred to in Article 119 paragraph 3), it was a compensation for injury to work or occupational illness, if the worker had been injured at work and the dispute against the employer was conducted, and he was given a firm verdict of a certain amount, by these provisions of the law, after the bankruptcy procedure was launched, the state practically half of that judgment denied for the damage caused by the employer's guilt. That's inadmissible. There's no legal certainty here. I don't know if anything like this is going on in the world, but it's an attempt for us to practically what's been ruled out, which finally has been passed by a judicial verdict, that through some provision of the law, it is now denied. I don't know if there's one in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11954	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, MP Branislav Rankic, on behalf of the SRS, submitted an amendment to Article 126, requesting that number 9 be replaced by 12. What does this mean? If the company goes bankrupt, just a little bit to find the text - profits and fees during the absence of work due to temporary prevention to work under health insurance regulations that was required to be paid by the employer, in accordance with this law, for the last nine months, and we think it'll be 12 months. It's about pain, it's about maternity leave, it's about another prevention to work. We believe that the worker is in no way guilty of the bankruptcy created by the company and needs an employer, i.e. the state in this way to protect the worker. In an explanation received by Mr Rankic as to why the amendment was not adopted, it is said - the amendment is not accepted for the reasons mentioned for not accepting the amendments of MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic. In an explanation of why Mrs. Snezana Lakicevic-Stojacic's amendment was not accepted, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the bill's solution was given according to the available options in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs of the SRS voted against the budget precisely because of these and similar shortcomings in the draft budget. You have budgeted 80 million dinars to support the family of Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, the NJKV, as they write individual means of information, the heir, as you refer to him, and we have another saying about him that is not for this speaker. You brought this NGO to Serbia, you gave him the White Court, which, by the way, did not belong to him because his father did not even build it. It belongs in the far line to the state of Serbia, but it was not built by his father but built by Prince Paul. You have made an argument between the descendants of the Karadjordjevic family, because Mrs Jelisaveta cannot enter the White Court and she belongs to the Karadjordjevics. You've finally allocated 80 million in this budget to the N.K.V., so that he can build a gym, not say cocktails, which you're happy to go to. You find money to provide workers, and as far as we're concerned, I hope soon, when the elections come, and this year they're inevitable, the SRS will soon decide both on the budget and on all other things, and then we'll share that little poverty a little differently with the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11956	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11957	This is Chapter IX – Search for employees in the event of bankruptcy proceedings. Now the question is whether this whole chapter should be in this law or in some other law. Half a year ago, a bankruptcy law was passed here, and then it was said to be reform law, bankruptcy proceedings are opened, licensing agencies are licensed, determining who can conduct bankruptcy proceedings as a bankruptcy manager and bankruptcy proceedings can end with bankruptcy or restructuring. What you've placed in these few members here is about a logical link to the bankruptcy process that ends in bankruptcy, and you've built up, if a bankruptcy procedure is opened, and that's the reason for the termination of employment, which the employee's rights should be realized. Of course, one of those rights, the first right you have stated, is to pay off the profits, the residual earnings that have become by demand. Now you've given at the beginning, if this claim cannot be made in a bankruptcy procedure or if it is partially implemented in a bankruptcy procedure, the state guarantees through its special fund this right nine months ago, and we say 12 months ago. However, in point 4) you listed something that is not logically possible, as if it were possible to make compensation for the sick after 30 days also in the company, not in the health insurance fund. You returned it to nine months, and since this bill was passed somewhere in November, so when nine months are taken away, it's from the day this government was elected. So, before this government, nothing happened. It's for calculating these deadlines. What happens in a situation where, say, BK goes bankrupt, so as employees who need to exercise these rights, academics, doctors, entrepreneurs, and editors-in-chiefs appear. This situation is not so uncertain. It's possible and likely because the "Mobtel" monopolies fund the entire BK system, and there's BK TV. If she were on the market, they wouldn't even have water, and there's a "Mobtel," then commercials, commercials, and then maybe they're the nice ones. The salaries of those people who need to be mentally involved in the public opinion of the Republic of Serbia are high. The government of the Republic of Serbia through its fund guarantees the rights of employees in BK TV. Let me remind you, it's that television that's constantly on a 20-minute news show for 15 minutes has a report -- the character and the work of our dear owner; so the next day they say -- since one newspaper hasn't published our press conference, we have to repeat it so it doesn't forget. Where's he picking up? Like a bird ominous everywhere, where he needs a hook, he's there. I just remind you that it is possible and certain that BK will go bankrupt and that the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia, raising funds in this fund, will finance 9, 12 months of still unrealized claims by Bojana Lekic, Olivera Kovacevic. Similarly, it can happen with other TVs, even if it's desirable for B92 to happen, but there's Soros. There are no financial problems. That's where even the Latin and Cyrillic can get mixed up in the title of the show. So you had to distinguish something a little bit. We didn't want to go any further. We just wanted to move this from nine to twelve months, because we don't know why it would be nine months, because if someone can do more, but we just wanted to draw your attention to possible situations, the enemies of this country and this people are being financed by the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11958	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11959	Ladies and gentlemen, this chapter 9, as Mr Krasic told you, concerns bankruptcy and liquidation. He is already known as the liquidator of the Democratic Party, so the general public knows him in Serbia. It is said in Article 125, on which counterpart Branislav Rankic submitted an amendment, on a period related to health insurance, whether it is 9 or 12 months, as suggested by Serbian radicals for those people whose company is eventually found in bankruptcy proceedings. Last year, in fact, you adopted the Bank Act, which the SRS had numerous objections to, and now, as I hear from my colleagues from the DSS, only in March, to bring this law into line with the later adopted Business Society Act. You know, each and every one of you from any middle to come, that it's possible for another company to be found in bankruptcy, as is the case in Kragujevac with the Red Star food factory, once a well-known meat industry. So, you're faced with the fact that there are a lot of such companies and a lot of workers to whom this change would mean. Col. Momir Markovic commented on the government's argument, or the minister, which does not accept any of this, and the minister responded to the amendment of counterpart Stojacic from the Democratic Party. It's a similar amendment. Now the government wanted to convince us that the budget had no available options, and as much as Dinkic boasted yesterday that the deficit had been reduced, that he had full co-operation with the IMF, that all the changes he had proposed as a major reformer were accepted. And I see how, all of us, in greater misery and poverty, he put us all in, and now he's asking you one question, why didn't you, when you didn't adopt the budget, the demo and the gentlemen of the MPs from the ruling structures, think about these workers? When we warned you about this, that you should not give such money and throw into a well, and it is three billion, to help Serbs from Kosovo, but not to give Covic, not to give for so-called NGOs, for this potential heir, who Mr Markovic spoke of, for various specialised contracts, for travel expenses, for the so-called conduct of individual ministries, projects we do not later have through the final budget account or information about where the money was spent or how, you did not listen to us. And now there's a minister, and he's not here today, and he says, there's no funds in the Republic of Serbia's budget. It's completely irrelevant, ma'am, to tell you, because the minister is not here, you tell him, this explanation below, and for the amendment of Col. Stojcic, and for the amendment of counterparts Rankic and Tome Busetic. They're all here somewhere, so it's about a period that needs to be extended to 12 months. You say, in addition to this solution in the bill, this of the nine months you've given - so that I should read again for the citizens of Serbia and those who, unfortunately, work in companies that will come under bankruptcy or are already. This point reads: 1) earnings and earnings during the absence of work due to temporary prevention of work under the health insurance rules which was required to be paid by the employer, in accordance with this law, for the last nine months prior to the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. The period can be even longer than 12 months, and as far as the SRS suggests. We must then refer the country to the problem that workers have, and no, you are calling for a European Union directive, and that is not important now, in relation to the protection of employees in the case of bankruptcy of their employer, according to which the state has the "possibility" to limit the guarantee, the guarantee institution, depending on its opportunities. What's the possibility of a state? The one contained in the budget, or only mentioned in these items that you should have rerouted or thought about when you talked about expenditures on the health care side, or health insurance, and that you know in advance that the budget, as the most important law of a country, is related to all subsequent events at the end of the year. If in this year, a number of employees in many companies come into bankruptcy proceedings, and they say there are several hundred who, unfortunately, are the pathway of further their events or what is going to happen to them, and which is the only way in which you imagine it under the Bank's Law, then there is a big problem, which you limit it to only nine months and you say it – that's the possibility of a state. (President: You're out of time. I'm done. You know, Bogoljub Karic, who thinks of himself and has a salary of 300,000 euros a month, says, it doesn't matter how much I'm going to be next month, because he is, for God's sake, and you heard that, a descendant of Nemanjic, and every day he invents some more nonsense. He says my options are that much, and I don't have any more, a salary of 300,000 euros, so if I'm going to pay the employees of my company in time, who cares? The ones that work on TV, and there's all the employees... (President: You're out of time. Here, I'm done. So you can't act like a Bogoljub Karic or those ossions and powerful, who don't know what to do with anger anymore, and who enjoy the torment of the people, but take responsibility and say, "We'll save on the other side." When it comes to the health fund, that item in the budget, we will provide these people, and even longer than 12 months, because it is not known with this situation in the economy how unfortunately businesses are waiting for bankruptcy or have already suffered bankruptcy, whether the period is much longer and there are those where the period is and longer than 12 months.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11960	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 126th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Svetislav Krstic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Toma Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11961	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Miss Natasa Jovanovic is wrong when she says Bogoljub Karic has 300,000 euros per month. He has 300,000 euros a day, and gives the state nothing, no dividends for the state, so when the state is gone, then they have no workers, and employees and unemployed, then the good works and funds are empty, and because of Bogoljub Karic and similar Bogoljub Karic. When it comes to this amendment, and it is about seeking employees in the event of bankruptcy proceedings, it is about Article 126, we have suggested that the damages caused by the untapped annual leave be in full amount, regardless of whether the company is in bankruptcy. We have suggested that the retirement allowance should amount to three average earnings, not three minimum earnings, and that the compensation of these damages be paid by law enforcement, not as proposed by the position of the 4th member. I want to remind you of what this is about. In point 4 of the preceding article, it is said: "The damages on the basis of the court's decision shall be made in the calendar year in which the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, due to injury to work or to professional illness, if the decision has become legal before the bankruptcy proceedings are initiated. "This compensation is intended for the next member, i.e. Article 126 of which I am saying: "The compensation of the damage referred to in Article 125 paragraph 1 of point 4 of this Act shall be paid in the amount of half of the compensation determined by the judgment of the Court. "This solution is unsustainable. Who can change a judicial verdict and where there's legal certainty. There are a lot of mistakes in the bill, simply unsustainable, and it starts with a member to prove that there was no discrimination on the defendant and many other solutions. And we'll also see in article 158 when it comes to extra employees, simply, solutions that are legally unfounded and unsustainable. That's why I think this amendment of ours is good, and I expect it to be supported in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11962	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11963	I have to tell you that anyone who submitted an amendment to this chapter could not be wrong, because there was nothing worse to suggest than what was written. It's written something that means that there's no recognition of the Banking Procedure Act, like there's no demand for an employee from a working relationship that has reached or arrived before, but it's recorded with the date of the bankruptcy, it almost doesn't exist, as if there's some imagination. It's all coming out with that tone. We want to have some funds, let the citizens know there's a fund, and how it's going to be, we don't know. The central question is what will happen to this third form of privatisation, which will go through these Kljajevic courts, which is privatisation in bankruptcy. In that bankruptcy law, we have proved behind this speaker that bankruptcy is possible over every firm, that expenses are spent, that debt is secured, that net assets are reduced, that property is devalued, and that the bankruptcy is bought. If something costs 10, you can buy it in two, three. It would be about a continuation of that privatisation as "Health" Leskovac, as it is an example that is clear to all. "Healthy" Leskovac was sold for less money than it was worth three times. The Leskovec people know exactly how much. It could have been like this at the time of that democracy, and at the time of this democracy, it would have been through bankruptcy. Very simple and simple. There's no problem, everyone's hiding behind the law, everything's fine. Where money goes from bankruptcy - to the trusts of the debtor. As a rule, they are in proportion to their claims, because the bankruptcy mass is not always in the positive. If there's a plus, where's he going? How is this fund going to be formed? What did we guarantee the job-based claim to proceed in the bankruptcy proceedings? If the bankruptcy procedure could have been opened a year and a half ago, I'm telling you that if it opens after a year and a half from today, here are all the employees of this fund. We've been listening to all kinds of stories here -- gross, net, clausin left, clausin right, clausin to employers, clausin to employees, we need to distinguish the work from the social. What's this? Do you distinguish work and social services with this provision? Who are you going to put here? What about your socio-economic advice? What about that big law of yours about intermediating, peaceful dispute resolution between unions and employees? You're making up your mind. I know you're doing a great job. The greatest pearl yesterday: it will open bankruptcy on state-owned enterprises. Based on which member, which law, I don't understand at all. The bankruptcy of a state-owned company, it's just like someone would say it opens up a bankruptcy against the state. You've opened up bankruptcy over the state, I know that, but you can't take over state-owned enterprises. But you're pushing it, media can go. Word is, the people are afraid, they're scared, they're scared, they're talking about great rights. What is the real effect that can be achieved? He's gone. So, let's put in some entertainment topics, people's masses have fun, businesses don't work, the state guarantees. You have heard in this amendment to Mr. Bushetic, but you have also heard part of the amendment concerning a special attitude, where a judicial decision can be binding only 50% on the state. Why did someone go to secure a court ruling, why would someone report to the court, if the state tells him by this law: we recognize the court's decision, but only 50%, and for 50% to report to some gutter and wait if it comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11964	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11965	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to prove to this member of the state, as an employer, in that part of the business where she's the majority owner, practically, came up with a rough scam, perhaps too harsh a word, a robbery of her own workers, or workers employed by companies where she's the majority owner. Imagine a huge number of work disputes which, on a variety of grounds of water or were conducted in these companies where the state is a majority owner, where it has not organised the process of work, did not provide crafts, capacity or use of capacity to the extent that it would be profitable, economical. Everything that has so far been ruled and has become law-abiding, and due to the slowness or inadequacy of the executive procedure or the inability to collect the claim, now the state, under these provisions of the law, 50 percent immediately write off, or prevents the creditors from charging it. It's a kind of robbery, kidnapping. Most of the problems are earnings that have been earned and have not been paid for a period of year, two, and in some businesses more. If they don't get paid, these workers don't have an insurance service. Imagine the unpleasant situation: you get a condition per year of life and a job insurance internship, you apply for pension and disability insurance rights, and you find out that in your home records, at the competent pension-inhabitation branch, there is no insurance service paid. Then the branch officials tell you to sue the company, sue the state. That came to claim, where the state was obliged to collect from the employer. There are certain criminal measures for those employers who do not. But on the principle that nothing works in this country, you're going to have a lot of unpleasantness when you think you've earned your pension right, and you haven't achieved it because the employer hasn't paid it in years. It is unacceptable for workers in enterprises where social property is involved. This doesn't apply to any employer. In a debate a few days ago, Minister Lalovic said nicely that companies in social property were saved by creditors. If the proponents of the text of this law thought that this is the way companies were saved from the trustees, then that's not a good way to do it. Since Mr. Minister came and I didn't get a chance to replicate it the other day, it was an empty chair, we were talking about the problem of people who were really sick. The minister was talking about those people who abuse the right to be sick. I know that there is an abuse of the right to sick leave, and I know that abuse of the right to be sick is the basis for termination of employment. That's not what we talked about. We talked about really sick people living off their work and if they got sick, then they're not in a position to support themselves or their family. All abuses of the right to sickness and all machinations because they are unconscious doctors, whether it is a chosen doctor or an earlier doctor, whether it is a medical commission, there is a procedure of control, punishment, or a reduction of these abuses. Minister, I'm trying not to be vulgar. She was a story from the other day, she looked like a cop and a drunk driver, where a cop tells a driver: you're drunk; and he says, "If we want to be offended, you've got bumpy ears." I thought we were having a discussion so we wouldn't be offended, that the question would be answered, not that it would be answered by some other topics we didn't mention. In this context, I believe that this is inadmissible, Mr Minister; outstanding earnings have reached claims, the state must insist, through the rules of the valid ones, that the employer fulfils its obligations to the employees, or to the state in this case, according to the funds, whether it is health insurance, PIO or protection in the event of unemployment. And it must not be used in this way by the state to do great damage to employees where the restructuring process has not been completed, where it is still that social capital and especially where the state is the majority owner, when it comes to state-owned enterprises... (President: You're out of time. That would be incorrect. I'm talking about this, this would be good in Article 119 for the first time to see that the employer is obliged to compensate for the damage caused by the injury at work. This is true in the world, and in the world it is known, if a worker is injured at work, that the employer paid a great price of it and should provide the employee and family for life. With this provision of the law, the crucial thing that you will then pay, 50% of it, is inadmissible, especially... (Chairman: Please, you've exceeded your time.) )......................................................................................................... In cases where a dispute is being conducted, the experts and judges decided that the value of the dispute should be as determined by a judicial decision, and you, at the end of one provision of the law, say the state will pay only 50%. Turns out the employee still went well. That's not a good way to solve a problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11966	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11967	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the Independent Union of Serbia, on behalf of the SPS amendment, were submitted by Dr. Svetislav Krstic and Toma Busetic. In addition to what Mr. Toma Busetic has put out here as an argument, I would like to say once again, for the SPS, it is a very important approach to bankruptcy companies, because when privatising someone who buys a bankruptcy company has no obligation to implement any social programme or to hire workers. His only obligation, that is, from what he pays, is to make a solid peace with the creditors, and that is the only thing that is the relationship between the buyer and the seller, that is, the state that guarantees such a thing. And that is why it is important to accept this amendment, because it better regulates the rights of workers who are in bankruptcy companies and in this regard I think that here the minister could make an exception and accept this amendment, because it is obviously a better solution to existential issues of employees in bankruptcy companies. It is a great burden because, unfortunately, Serbia has a large number of bankruptcy companies, but it is more important for us to see how many bankruptcy workers there are and what their belongings are. In the end, last night, Mr. Minister, in the last address of yesterday's work day, you extended the arguments that are the subject of your concept, looking at the matter when it comes to our amendments. Let me say that in a few sentences, I even recognized the pesoriatic intonation that refers to what we here yesterday opposed as arguments. We didn't mean to, we're simply opposing our concept of your concept. We stand for this concept because it's completely legitimate. He is on the market for political ideas of Serbia, in our political programme, and in this sense we have written amendments that are, above all, the product of our political programme, of our view of this matter. And, with that in mind, I invite you and everyone else to properly cross the arguments, but without the ultimate intention of talking about those who write amendments and their political agenda. Since we've had correct co-operation so far, I expect it to remain that way in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11968	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Antic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has been given by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11969	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 126 continues and relies on Article 125. It is closer to fixing benefits for those workers who have not taken advantage of their vacation, not their own fault, and refers to severance payments when they retire, and where we also have a serious restriction and reduction of the right to compensation and severance of workers. The fact is that the Bank's bankruptcy law has provided a privileged place for workers, that the promoters of the Bank of Banks had a lot of understanding for workers and the fact that a large number of them are out of work, and I find it inappropriate that these labour rights are being reduced in law. The amendment itself requires that, instead of a 1/2 minimum salary, at least one minimum profit be paid to workers who have not used their annual leave by mistake and so that instead of three minimum earnings on retirement, five minimum earnings are paid, because in itself, the minimum earnings are significantly less than the average earnings in the Republic. I guess in some future period, that difference will increase significantly. It is unsuitable to wish that workers' rights, i.e. to reduce their profits, are thus spared, while at the same time the state, more precisely, is working very little to rationalise the entire state administration, to rationalise all public enterprises. It's only said when it's necessary to present a law, it's very little really. I invite you to support this amendment in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11970	Anyone else want a word? National MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11971	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, the amendment was filed by MP Zoran Antic and this amendment required that the 2nd term "one half" be deleted in the position of the "one half" which would result in compensation for the unused annual vacation by the employer's guilt being paid at the rate of one profit instead of half. If we know that this law prescribes some minimum rights and that this law should be something that is basic, which in no way can be waived, and that collective contracts and labour contracts need to be through some negotiation procedures and through trade unions to still vote for something more, the question arises – why in so many members the legislator of this law provides for certain restrictions, why so many places are foreseen for the benefit of the employer, and at the expense of the workers, it is possible to deviate from this law. If the worker is not guilty by the employer, which is very important, he was in a position to take advantage of his annual vacation, it is minimum, as far as I know by the proposal of this law 15 working days, as it is possible that for 15 working days, which means a minimum of three working weeks, which could be three quarters of a month, compensation from only one half of a minimum wage can be paid for it. In this way you do not give a lot of work and compensation the worker will receive, because you assume that workers will have minimum wages. If someone gets half a month's pay in 15 working days, he doesn't get that minimum wage every day. So, instead of someone in accordance with the law going on vacation, which is necessary because of many social, health and other aspects, you're making him work and instead of being paid for his work, at least at a regular price that's going to be slightly higher than the minimum profit, you're making him work for that period that's supposed to not work, and it works, he gets paid even less than the minimum profit. You are in this way practically abolishing the right to an annual holiday and the right to a minimum profit. So, it would be much better to say that if a worker can't already exercise his right to be guaranteed by this law, in which case at least the employer will be punished for not providing him with that vacation and paying him twice as much as the regular situation would be. And by this law, you predict that he is not paid minimally, but that he is paid below that minimum amount. The second part of the amendment concerns severance payments due to retirement and the planned solution should be paid three minimum earnings, an amendment submitted by MP Zoran Antic intended to increase the fee to five minimum earnings. Since we know that you've already tightened your retirement conditions, we don't think it would be too much for someone who's worked 40 years at the end on a severance note to get at least five minimum earnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11972	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11973	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are no bigger frauds, even in the West to whom we are blaspheming, and in 15 or 20 years, we will safely enter the European Union, as you have set out, if the European Union doesn't break down by then, there are no bigger frauds than falsified bankruptcys. And what's going on? The owner buys the company, as the owner of the sale, so, for a good part of the assets he launders money, he transfers other accounts to other companies and then puts the company to a certain level, leads to bankruptcy, workers on the street, the state takes over the liabilities, and he with the money he launders goes on. That's right in the West, I'm telling you, that's how it's going to be with us, with many companies, and I'm not talking about those bankruptcys that in themselves will have to come because of business conditions, because of everything else that goes bankrupt. Yesterday we had a chance, said Mr. Krasic, to see that the minister falsifies bankruptcy in a public state-owned enterprise, brings the state slowly into ownership slavery, but I would not talk about it. I would like to discuss the amendment submitted by MP Zoran Antic on behalf of the SRS to Article 126. If the state is willing to make commitments with this law and part of the bankruptcy, and part of that fund, we have seen that it will form, in some way satisfy the basic claims of workers who remain unemployed, and in this case, Article 126 is the right to take advantage of the annual vacation, as the employer will certainly prepare in the fourth quarter of the year before the final account to conduct bankruptcy, so many will not take advantage of the annual holidays. I don't see any reason why the state wouldn't pay a full vacation fee instead of one half, as otherwise provided for in this law when the company normally works. There are practices everywhere in the world, even in the most radical conditions of capitalist exploitation, that when someone retires, they get a retirement allowance, and we need that severance payment, because between the last salary and the first pension, it's a couple of months, and that's how the state is, so everything's organized, and we need to survive three or four months until the first pension, no matter how small it is, comes. You know for sure that these are people who are disabled, already sick, and they retire, or people who are 61, 62, 63 or 64 years old, and who need drugs, and in the law where we regulate health insurance, we've also mutilated those people, where drugs that are really expensive because they're on that negative list, they have to be bought; so let's let whoever goes into retirement so that at least the drugs can buy to survive and wait for that first pension. I don't see why this amendment couldn't be adopted, a team before I said that there are funds in the budget, which praises Minister Dinkic. But the budget is a special story, you know how much we're amendments and how many of us came out to talk when the budget was on the agenda; so he folded the budget back-to-back, so on the one hand it's spilling over, and on the other hand it's an empty bag. Perform redistribution, transfer funds here, allow people to survive.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11974	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11975	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, within the framework of a law that needs to regulate working relations and rights based on working relationships, we're doing a little walking on what's called a socialist. Probably the most painful problem of this process, which you call transition, is this social aspect, which is not one to accept those obligations that need to be met with people who remain without this successful path to the European Union. In order not to repeat myself, I believe that, by any chance, there is a clearer provision in this law that one who pays minimum earnings has an obligation to inform the ministry and then probably the ministry, and through it and the future fund, would have the essential knowledge that these are perspective companies that could step into bankruptcy. So, a team before the company can go bankrupt, and in terms of labour rights did not come into a situation called surplus employees, therefore, when due to economic, technological and other changes, surplus employees appear. It's a completely different situation, where there's no violation of rights or any limited scope of those rights. However, here the government has concluded that through its special fund it should bear the social burden of bankruptcy, i.e. privatisation, as it counts here on bankruptcy ending in bankruptcy. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that something was wrong with this article. It is said that the earnings and fees referred to in Article 125(1), which are those earnings and those fees, are paid at a minimum profit level. So they're not paid at the level of basic earnings that were stories in the profit provisions, they're going to be minimal. At the same time, basic earnings were discussed, and we affirm the principle of bargaining. If the affirmative principle of the contract is, then the outstanding profit is the full claim to be made from the bankruptcy mass in the bankruptcy proceedings. Now that the state is taking over, and it's taking over according to this system, I can tell you with infallible accuracy what the government is going to say about this in half an hour -- someone here in this assembly is against doing at least something further; because they're starting from this that these provisions may be small extensions, maybe a little bit, but the capacity of our budget doesn't allow any more. But whoever's against this, who's been changing something by amendment, he practically wants the workers to take nothing. It's this inversion that they're going to have to come up with because otherwise they can't justify the things that are written here. This amendment concerns Article 3 which speaks of severance. You see, severance is not a profit. The severance is practically a classic claim. If it is not achieved as a successful claim by an employee, who has stopped working because of the opening of a bankruptcy procedure, see, it now suffers some changes and is said to be three minimum earnings. In this amendment, however, we follow our previous amendment, which we have completely different ways of predicting. But the central question is -- where should this social fund be, which should bear the cost, the painful cost of privatisation, because this is privatisation. There's a bankruptcy of the hours of work, and then there's the privatisation. Run those who have money, mount. When are you going to change that Kljajevic already? That's where people have to pay for it to be legal. Then you can imagine how much they pay the bankruptcy directors for what goes past the law. As far as I know, there was an action here to get rid of this man. The Alpha and the omega of all bankruptcy problems is the Goran Kljajevic and the nomenclature he determines to be bankruptcy managers. By the way, that bankruptcy bill of yours doesn't apply. There's still known personnel coming in. Known frames that decompose that property. And now you're binding on them the fate of the employees, because of the mobsters who gathered in a commercial court here, and they're doing bankruptcy proceedings, as bankruptcy directors, so they're being violated by property, so I need more bankruptcy managers to pay for something to go according to the law. You're underprotection if you're just protecting yourself by law, and you're not protecting yourself by law enforcement.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11976	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS, or counterpart Zoran Antic, has submitted an amendment to Article 126. In heading 2, the words "one half" are deleted, and the words "three minimum earnings" are replaced by the words "five minimum earnings". In the explanation we gave in this amendment, we're talking about the next one. When it comes to compensation for damages under the court's decision, the amount of judgment cannot be reduced. The amount of severance, due to the retirement staff's departure, needs to be increased from three to five minimum earnings. So, when we talk about this amendment to the SRS, or colleagues of Zoran Antić, we are talking about this draft law on work that the government has submitted to the National Assembly and in this particular section relating to employee claims in the event of bankruptcy proceedings. The reply of the Government of the Republic of Serbia was not to accept amendments to Article 124 and Article 126 of the SRS parliamentary group, and this case shows exactly what we were talking about when we defended this position and the amendments we submitted to the draft labour law. The essence of the government's response to Article 126 reads - the bill's solution is given according to the options of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The government admits that it cannot accept such an amendment, which would protect employees in the event of bankruptcy in the company where it works, and the essence of our amendments is just to protect employees. Such examples show that the government is passing a law that cannot be and does not go hand in hand to employees, arguing that Serbia's economy, as the minister said, has even used some difficult words, unsuitable, in a sick state. He could have chosen other terms and said he was in bad shape, which we agree with you, but what you do to change that. The aim of this bill is to protect first and foremost the rights of employees and workers, to bring this into line with European legislation. For reasons of passing this law, you turned it around. It is stated that, of course, everything needs to be brought into line with European legislation, and only then do you state what I just said. The aim of this National Assembly is to pass laws that will protect, on the one hand and above all, employees, and of course employers, to be, as you say, in that part compatible with European legislation. Yesterday, in your presentation, when you spoke to the National Assembly, in the final word of yesterday's session, you also said that we differed about the concept. You accepted several amendments from the SRS parliamentary group because you could not not accept them. They're so argumentative that you had to as a government think about how to protect employees' interests. But not by accepting the amendments that we have tabled in this particular section, to Article 124 and Article 126. The bill, you say, repeat, that the nature of this law, in relation to the current law passed by the former government, the Democratic Party, which turned Serbia's economy black, will not particularly change after the adoption of this law, because you will probably adopt this law by the will of the majority in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by Ambassador Milorad Mircic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11979	With this amendment, we also draw attention to the fact that it is not good if a commitment is to be made by the government, and here it is precise who proposes these representatives of the trust's board of directors; two representatives are proposed by the government, two representative trade unions and two associations of representative employers, so three sides. That's what it's like with us, like, three or two somewhere, and none. It is said here -- it is named by the government for a period of four years, and it is the government's representatives on a proposal from the minister. We now have government representatives in the first position, and in the third position, the government appoints, and here as a proposal to the government, the minister appears. Independent of this amendment, the minister is a member of the ministry. And when the law states the government's authority, then it's about the ministry. To specify which ministry is then usually said -- the ministry responsible for jobs, and then these jobs are listed, and then, in accordance with the Ministry Act, closer decrees. So, with this amendment, Mr. Mircic tried to fix something a little bit, or, above all, draw attention to these things, that there's something wrong. But there's nothing wrong with this fund at all. You see, I'm going to take a few situations that are insecure for this fund. Well, I'll even assume that these situations happen right after this law comes into force. When it comes to banks, the bank goes bankrupt, and the people who work at the bank have employee status. These when they shut down these four banks, they put them out, but they took out $4.5m, or now it's 4.5m euros in diaspora funds, just because they didn't want to execute a warrant to place those funds before the bankruptcy was opened. Think about it or take your famous BK system. "Astra Simit" can go bankrupt, it can go bankrupt and BK TV, it can go bankrupt to six newspapers, that's what they're using -- rapato, unscrupulous, that's all Karic pays nicely. Other BK-related enterprises, not names, can also make a commitment to the state. It could be part of some new coalition deal. The whole idea about this fund, if it were a harsh word that it was missed as an initiative, then I could say it was set on the wrong foundations. Uncertainty will be such a big problem that every reasonable judge in this country will conclude that a system in which a division of work under the white collar system, with elements of the criminal sect, has been carried out. One group leads to bankruptcy, another group disintegrates, the third group seemingly meets. All covered by the law, all formally-legal can be pure, but weak, neither has work nor has rights guaranteed.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11980	The word is from Ambassador Vojislav Milajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11981	Ladies and gentlemen, this whole chapter regulates the relationship between employees and employers, in a situation where employees have certain claims to the employer under whom bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated. Certain rights that workers have towards the employer, i.e. claims they have towards the employer, of course, are difficult to achieve when a bankruptcy procedure is initiated against a company. The very idea of setting up a fund, in order to protect those claims that have employees and which are regulated by members from 127 to 146 of this bill, is trying in a way to protect those claims of an employee. However, whether the realization of this idea is good and whether this fund is set on sound grounds is now a completely different question. First of all, the composition of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board is symptomatic. The bill provides for two members of the Management Board to appoint the Government, two members of the Management Board who will be representatives of representative trade unions and two members who will be representatives of employers, who are also members of the socio-economic council. It's very strange that the funds for the fund's work are provided by the state. So 100% of the money for the settlement of this type of claim is provided by the state, and the management of these funds is done by union representatives and employers' representatives. In fact, in this composition of the board of directors, two-thirds are trade unions and employers, who are in fact citizens' associations, and two representatives of the government. The concept is completely unclear, which would make the state disown that right of management of budget funds for the benefit of the citizens' association, which, by the way, is extremely problematic in determining the representativeness of these trade unions and employers' associations, which will again be discussed with the amendments concerning the establishment of representativeness. It's the same situation with the board of directors. One representative is represented by the Government, the representative union and the employer's representative. The Management Board, among other things, has the responsibility to appoint the Director, manage the work of the Fund and not to list all other powers, so it is completely unclear why the Proposer went this way to allow the funds, which are 100% secure from the budget, to manage and manage the associations in fact, means trade unions and employers' representatives. In addition, Article 130 also mentions that these board members, as well as members of the Supervisory Board, have their deputies. They're just mentioned, and they don't show their authority at all. What does that mean, deputy? Is he a full member? Does he have the same authority that has a member of the board of directors and supervisors? You can't see that from article 130. The concept could accept the existence of a fund, as a kind of protection of employees' claims against the employer under whom bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, but I don't think the happiest solution given in the draft of this law is possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11982	The word is by MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it should be emphasized here that this fund has been deliberately established, for the reason that everything that was said earlier is covered in a way that the right thing cannot be seen. I'll remind you of a previously adopted social programme by the former government to restructure businesses, privatize, prepare for bankruptcy and liquidation, what was in that programme. This government seems to have no program, so it tries to create conditions for large systems, where the government is a majority capital owner, to put an end to bankruptcy, i.e. liquidation where privatisation is not possible and to spend the least on the least, in fact, the fraud of employees who are in these factories where the state is a majority owner. Just imagine a couple of parallels of comparisons doing. The average salary is about 17,000 dinars. I don't know what the minimum working price for January 2005 is now - June 2006. It was 40 dinars for December 2004. Imagine now a minimum wage that is less than 6,000 dinars in 172 hours and imagine the average salary that the worker has earned, the employer needs to pay for the last year, and the state guarantees and pays 7,000 dinars. That's half. It is not by chance where it has been decided but on various grounds, where an employee expects the employer to pay the debt at interest for late payment of the debt, at the end of the country to pass one provision of the law and say there is none of it, only half. It wouldn't be any wonder if it was any employer. This is about a clear intention that a company where the privatisation process has not yet been completed, a company in the social sector, i.e. where the state is a majority owner, a state-owned company, is in a position to literally deceive workers on a number of grounds. Unpaid earnings for many years, earned, I hope, paid as a minimum profit, and the second base of all what has been in disputes so far, and there have been a lot of disputes based on various grounds, decided at last, is reduced by 50%, and remains the biggest part of the problem that has been made for the exercise of the right based on pension and disability insurance. The state sector is not just any company, and there is a problem, because the state is protecting itself, not the employer, and it is not an intention to help the employee, but to practically get out of this difficult situation that is now like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11984	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment, MP Igor Becic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Parliamentarian Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment to Article 146. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, and there's a quorum, Mr. Markovic, and more than necessary. There's enough quorum, just keep going, Mr. Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11985	In this chapter, the demand for employees in the event of bankruptcy, we essentially have a kind of conversion, labour-based rights become matter, how to define it, administrative matter. All that was the right of employment while he was working, until a bankruptcy procedure was opened, by opening a bankruptcy procedure and by the fact that an employee, an ex-employee, fulfils these conditions and should exercise some right to this fund, when it comes to the fund, that right becomes a administrative matter. Something like that, if it's done, it's done completely differently, much better. I listed this because of what's in Article 146 that I've submitted the amendment to. Article 146 states that the supervision of the legality of the work of the Fund shall be carried out by the ministry responsible for the work, the supervision of the legality of the work. It's not even administrative surveillance, it's not inspection surveillance, it's that third kind of surveillance. Who do they really need to monitor? They should oversee, above all, their board of directors, their two representatives on the board of directors, their decisions, the Supervisory Board is not subject to this, the director responsible for the legality of the work. In doing so, the Government points out in Article 127 that the Fund has a legal personality and operates as a public service. He's in charge of the proper procedure. The Fund shall make appropriate decisions through its bodies to decide on the rights and obligations of the person who reports and the whole procedure is prescribed. Basically, it's an administrative procedure, a general administrative procedure, and it's all coming back to the ministry that oversees the legality of work. I mention this for the simple reason that a completely similar solution existed in the Law on Higher Education and this provision was abused by Gašo Knezevic in December 2000, because he interpreted it as being able, under the right of supervision, to amend final administrative acts, and even some who were prepared, were not even administrative but preparatory acts. In order not to have the authority listed here, as a body that is required to exercise law, come to this temptation, and the supervision of labour law is doing all possible inspections that are authorized to visit this legal person who works under public service regulations. So this tax, as well as this labour inspection, can be the most administratively guaranteed control, the legality of work and respect for the general policy of the Republic of Serbia, guaranteed through the selection of directors, board members, and not to order any of these friends from the socio-economic council. This norm is completely excessive, and as indicated, given our practice established by the Dosmans since December 2000, it becomes dangerously pointless.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11986	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 150 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nemanja Sarovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11987	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, I have submitted an amendment to Article 150. This amendment requires that the words "a year" be replaced by the words "two years". Namely, what is the matter; the Member of the 150th says that the employer is obliged to apply the general act of the employer's predecessor one year from the day of the change of employer's day, unless a new collective contract is concluded before that deadline. In order for this member to be understood, it is necessary to look at some previous members, meaning Article 147, 148, and Article 149, where it says that in the case of a status change, i.e. the employer, changes in the employer in accordance with the law, the employer assumes from the employer the general act and all labour contracts in force on the day of the change of employer. This is, of course, necessary for any continuity to exist and it is normal that, when there is a status change within a company or if there is a change in the owners of a company, this new owner has certain rights and obligations which, on the basis of the concluded collective agreement, took over the previous owner, or if the owner is the same, means that only the status change of the undertaking has occurred. It is necessary that some obligations cannot be erased by that very change. The position of the SRS is that, in this case, workers should be a little more protected and that this collective contract should be applied over a longer period of two years, of course, with these limits already given in points 1) and (2) of this Article. The position of the legislator and this unmistakably, I would say, the argument that the amendment is not accepted because there is no legal interference that the employer is applying the collective contract of the employer of the predecessor and for more than a year if consent is reached on the extension of the contract with the union, that is the answer to a question that no one has even asked. It is not disputed that there are no legal interferences to apply if an agreement is reached between the union and the employer, but it is not enough that there are no legal interferences. We wanted to make this amendment an obligation for the employer to apply that collective contract. I don't know what's wrong with the minister. Every time I go out for a pay phone, the minister comes out. Indeed, it is incomprehensible to this reasoning of the Secretary-General, especially in the light of the fact that the collective agreement is an act providing greater rights than is given by the Labour Law. So the labour law is a set of some minimum rights and then it's unclear what this answer could mean that if the employer agrees, then a general collective act will apply for longer. Of course, if there is agreement and the collective agreement ceases to exist, then the new agreement will be concluded without a problem, there will be no need to re-negotiate the collective bargaining process for the conclusion of the contract, i.e. the application of Article 3 of this Law, which the legislator points us to in the light of the non-acceptability of this amendment. He's a slow member and a previous member. That will be very interesting when applied in practice. This is Article 149, where the employer is said to be obliged to make written notification to employees whose labour contract is being transferred and that, if an employee refuses to transfer the contract or is not declared within five working days of the date of delivery of the notice, the employer may cancel the contract of employment. This is a shortcut through which there will be and there is a great possibility of abuse, and I am convinced that in practice and coming, because the question is whether workers will always be informed of what it means if within five days they do not declare whether or not they accept the transfer of the labour contract. It is not provided for the form in which that notification is to be made that, it is not intended for the employer to warn the worker of the legal consequences of the action or inaction in this regard. I think this member will be very controversial in application.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11988	The People's MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić, came forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11989	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the DS has submitted an amendment to Article 150 in the sense of amending Article 1, which provides that the employer should respect the collective contract of the previous employer one year after the takeover of the company. We think that deadline is inappropriately large. Moreover, we do not think there should be at all, but while respecting the proposed reasons, that he wanted to put a certain deadline within which a previous deadline must be respected, we suggest that the words "one year" be replaced by the words "60 days". We believe that this is an appropriate time-limit for the employer to conclude a new collective contract, as provided for in Article 3. The draft labour law, and after a certain period, the employer may also adopt a labour rule that must also be in accordance with the law. The DS thinks that the employer's obligation to apply the general act of the employer is contrary to all the principles of market business and to bring into a very delicate position of that employer, since it must also respect the obligations provided for by and the legal predecessor, which very often can be harmful to the new employer. It is often the case that an employer in a privatisation process or in another procedure takes over and economically fails businesses, so there is no excuse to provide for this obligation to comply with the rules that have put the company in an uninvited position. In this way, plans for the revitalisation of companies can be significantly difficult. In addition, it happens that the employer the follower has his employees and employees of the predecessors. In this way, these two categories of employees are in an unequal position in relation to their rights, obligations and responsibilities, unless an identical general act is applied for both categories of employees. We therefore propose to the National Assembly, and also to the legislator, that this amendment of the DS should be considered once again and we propose that they accept, because we do not think that any of us has the right to interfere so directly with the business of the new employer and imposes on him rules of conduct and obligations contrary to the provisions of the law, that one year in his business, in which he tries to revitalise the company, in which he tries to improve production, he acts according to a collective contract concluded by the previous employer.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11990	This was according to the previous amendment, where instead of a year the contract was proposed to be valid for 60 days. Now let's go back to the one that's been proposed for two years. Mr. Krassic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11991	It is good that, under this amendment, Nemanje Sarovic is also covered by this second idea in the DS amendment. It was probably written by Aca Vlahovic. There's a lot for him for 60 days. He's got a deadline for yesterday. To get into this topic and make it clear to everyone, he says: "In the case of status change (status change is governed by the Law on Economic Society, it is a status change when a limited liability society becomes a company) or changes in the employer... "It would be more proper "and changes in the employer." The change of employer is what - 20% action was Peru, and now it's 20% Mike's stock. What happened in the company? Whether it's an employer change or an employer change when it's over 51%. So here's the first problem in applying this law. You won't be able to help find this in the Business Society Act. The second thing, when there was a change, which day, on what basis do you count on: the day of entry into some register, the day of conclusion of the contract, the day that he literally entered power, not possession, that employer, what date did you choose? Do you think the judge should throw and see if it's a letter or a head to determine what day it's going to be? You can't do that in laws. This isn't even for literary composition. Then we come to Article 149, where you say, "The employer of the predecessor is obliged to transfer the contract of work... "The notion of transfer is here in the same rank as the rip. I split the contract, passed the contract, brought the contract, lost the contract. I guess it's more correct to say that there's a change in one party. As a result of the change of employer, there is also a change in one of the contracting parties in the labour contract. We are now in a situation that is no longer that employer but second and now wants to freeze the situation. Now we're coming in for the 60 days. Of course, we suggest it be two years. Why two years? You told us that all collective agreements, and general, must comply with the law, and the law prescribes a minimum. Then what's to change that new employer? Only to go below minimum. He can't go below minimum. You, by the authority of the state and this coalition, guarantee that you cannot go below the minimum. It happens on a privatisation auction to buy a man a hairdresser's place, and the next day he throws it all out, all the barbershops become cafes. He owns it, he can do anything. Where are the employment rights? Or this Mladen Grujic buys Gorica with a number of employees, by contract he could sell 10%, he sold 40%. Take the other one. Somebody buy one, for example. "The first five-year-old." By the logic of 60 days he owns it, he closes it, says – come on out, these will be warehouses, there will be no more toolmakers or other things. In the face of reality, some of them are deluded, so they're thinking about yesterday's deadlines. You're trying to measure it in a very wrong way, so confused that it won't surprise me if you turn the government building into a employment bureau.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11992	Anyone else on this amendment? Here you are, MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11993	Ladies and gentlemen, this chapter regulates the situation where status changes have taken place, primarily referring to the change of employer and the relationship of the new employer to the employee. There are certain special conditions, how much a general act will apply, which depends on the length of the application of the general act. I don't think there's much help for employees here, but I even think they've been granted it. It is illogical that the general act is being applied and that the application of the labour contract is particularly highlighted, as if it were something special. Each follower, the one who assumes a particular company, assumes all rights and obligations, therefore assumes absolutely all obligations towards the employees arising from the labor contract. I don't understand why there would be a restriction in that he has to respect for at least a year. He must respect the labour contract as long as the labour contract is in force. He must respect the general act as long as that general act is valid, not be courted. I am surprised by the insolence of the DS to make amendments at all, given how the current law has been passed, and on the one hand they show inappropriate courage to report for the amendment to explain something, considering how the labour law has been passed. In fact, it should not exist in the country's legal order, as it was not brought to the majority of the votes of the MPs at the time calling the Serbian Parliament in 2001. And that they are still proposing amendments, and that their representative comes out for a pay phone and gives an explanation of the DS amendment, which is otherwise a member of the Socialist International, which advocates that the rights of employees be cut to the limit, as seen in their amendment, that the ceiling of applying the general act is 60 days, which my predecessor, Mr Krasic said...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11994	Mr. Milajić, may I ask you, you have responded to Mr. Sarovic's amendment, be kind and speak of this amendment. It's very correct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11995	So they would reduce to as little as possible. With this amendment, which the SRS has invested, we are, in fact, trying in a maximum way to protect the employees, so that in an unfair and extremely inappropriate way, their rights would not be denied, which stem from the general act and contract of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11996	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? MP Alexander Djordjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the case of a member of the 150th, the nature of this draft labour law is visible. Of course, counterpart Nemanja Sarovic, MP of the SRS, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary club, proposed an amendment to Article 150, so that the words "one year" were replaced by the words "two years". We believe that the increase in the application of general acts of employers to two years is more favourable for the employee. And whenever we talk about the amendments that we have tabled here, we obviously encounter a misunderstanding from the government of the Republic of Serbia, which at all costs wants to pass the law at speed, not seeing the essence of the amendments of the SRS parliamentary group. Of course, if we want to talk about this speaker and talk about the law that will be passed in this National Assembly, about the labour law, and that will change the nature of the applicable Labour Act, which has passed the previous power of the DS, which has also humiliated all workers employed in this country with that law, then the Government of the Republic of Serbia had to bear in mind exactly Article 150. The draft law on the work of amendments that we have submitted and what representatives of the representative trade unions have said when they proposed amendments to the draft labour law. What if a new employer in this case said he accepted only the duties that were created a year before taking over the company without accepting all other duties as binding. The essence of our amendment to Article 150. The bill is precisely that this member is arranged in a way that will go in favour, first of all, of employees and that will prevent any negative connotations that could arise from Article 150. Of course, article 150 shows the nature of this law, that it will not differ from the applicable one unless the National Assembly, or ruling coalition in the National Assembly, accepts our amendments. Then for this law that you bring, you will accept the greatest responsibility for everything that happens later.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11998	Thank you, Mr. Gjorgevic. Following the same amendment, MP Momir Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u11999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I leave with the defence of this amendment, I must apologize to the citizens of Serbia, because we are obviously passing this law without a quorum. (President: It's all right, if you stick your card in, Mr. Markovic, everything will be all right. ) There are no 84 members of the ruling majority in the room. I also have to apologize to the citizens of Serbia for defending most of the amendments without the minister's presence, and to apologize to the minister for starting work this morning an hour before he arrived. Amendment of MP Nemanje Sarovic to article 150. The bill was rejected by reason – the amendment is not accepted for reasons of not accepting the amendment of MP Dusan Mrvos to the same member of the bill. These are two different amendments and it's normal for the explanation to be complete for both. The MP asked, in his amendment, that Article 150 of attitude 1 should be replaced by "a year" in the words "two years." "In an explanation to MP Dusan Mrvos, the amendment is not accepted because there is no legal interference for the employer to apply the collective contract of the employer of the predecessors for more than a year, etc. He will look forward to spending the year the law determines for him, to share his resignations, to clear the firm, so that he can mostly sell it. Mr Krasic said privatisation was conducted during the previous period. It's important that four months doesn't sell anything, or in a year, because in four months he sold out half of the company, 10% could be sold out annually, and 40% sold out in a few months. Many workers have found themselves where they shouldn't, I mean on the street. With this amendment, we would protect workers who work in these companies, and now largely buy out companies that are in social property and move into private property, for at least two years. It's a year and it's too small. First, so that employees from the company find opportunities to find a job, unless the minister... And again, I call on him to come out and say what companies they're giving 20,000 to the workers, so no one will work, so they have to come from Romania and Bulgaria. Let's hire ours first, then think about Romanians and Bulgarians. Mr Minister, I expect you to adopt this amendment now, and if you do not adopt now, then MPs of the ruling majority in the voting day will really vote in favour of this amendment and at least in this part we will protect the employees from being on the streets as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12000	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. Don't throw it away, Mr. Markovic, be kind, and it's the right of an MP to use as many falls as he wants, what it looks like, please. National MP Ljiljana Nestorovic tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 153a be added after article 153a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12001	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, in Article 153(1), it is said that the employer shall adopt a programme for the resolution of extra employees, if it finds that technological, economic or organisational changes will result in an end within 30 days of the need for the work of employees. We have proposed that a new member be introduced after this article, which reads: "The employer is obliged to establish before the adoption of the programme in accordance with the business plan, strategy and development objectives of the technological, economic or organisational changes programmes, as well as to establish in the Regulation all changes in organisational parts, jobs and the number of employees required in the business." What was our idea? Since under the Business Society Act, there is an obligation for the employer to adopt an annual business plan, which contains a strategy and development objectives, then it was natural and meaningful for us to have the programme of organisational, technological and economic change tied to the business plan and strategy of the company. So, we have practically proposed the following order of moves in the employer: 1st adoption of an annual business plan containing strategy and objectives; 2nd establishment of organisational, technological and economic changes stemming from the business plan; 3rd adoption of the Excess Management Programme on the basis of the previous two documents. So, since it's really in Article 155. The draft law stipulates that the surplus programme must contain the reasons for the termination of the need for the work of employees, as referred to in Article 153, of organisational and technical changes. But we are afraid of how serious this document on organizational and technical changes will be. We fear that this document is not just a mere formality from which a list of people who are technologically surpluses will come from. That is why we wanted to ensure the seriousness of this document, by binding and resulting from the annual business plan, the strategy and the objectives of the employer. The government has rejected the amendment with a reason that what we have proposed is excessive because it is required to state the reasons for the termination of the work of individual employees in the Excess Management Programme. We hope that's enough. If all existing employers were owners, we wouldn't be afraid of abuse. But with us in this system, which is still undefined at the end of the transition from socialist to capitalist, we have three types of property ownership. We have social, state and public enterprises, as well as private. Of course the privateer won't make a negative selection, fire those workers who are good to him, and that's why it's market imperative for him because he can expect some prosperity from them. The thing is complicated in the part where we talk about social property, or public enterprises, where the number of planned people for release, or their list, can be the product of the personal affinity of the director, by who knows what criteria, based on some personal observations, so that we essentially wanted to specify things so as not to have abuses and negative selections. And we all know that the negative selection, which is due to the personal boss of executives in our public enterprises and in social enterprises, is essentially the main criteria for making lists of people who are being laid off, and usually these are people who are capable, have their own opinion, someone who is not air-conditioned and obedient. Thank you. I therefore ask the Minister and the Government to reconsider this amendment and to install it into the law itself. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12002	As a member of the 155th amendment, National MP Milan Stevovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the labour law has very many painful points, and one of the most painful points is certainly the excess employees. Therefore, special attention in every law, and especially in the law of our country where there is a huge number of unemployed, must be addressed and explained. I have submitted on behalf of the SRS an amendment to Article 155 relating to this surplus staff and, above all, to a programme that is required by the employer to draw up in a particular document. When it comes to this programme, which is contained in Article 155, the law obliges the employer to state a few things, and above all, the number of employees, and then to specify the number and structure of employees who are surpluses, the reasons behind this must be stated, and ultimately, to provide for the measures to be taken to take care of them, i.e. for employment. I suggested adding another point to this, that it be prescribed that other rights and obligations of employees should be entered into there. If, on the one hand, we predict that the employer is obliged, obliged to draw up the programme, on the other hand we protect employee rights in another way. At any given time, we can say that in a working relationship, employees have a lot of rights that are not covered by this. I'll just say that for practical reasons. There may be a programme and adoption of this programme, but there are disputes behind it. A lot of disputes are about regulation of surplus employees, criteria and everything else. However, what this amendment covers. For example, it is not stated anywhere that the programme still needs to say something about how employees can use the right to vacation or how to connect to work, or how to pay for overtime. With the right of the legislator in Article 157, he said that criteria cannot be if it is a temporary prevention to work, if it is about pregnancy, maternity leave, child care and special care of the child. However, there is no indication of what is happening to those who have gone into the military, what about those who have gone to military service, or who are headed abroad. What about those who are posted to work with another employer, or who, for other reasons, do responsible state functions, are not currently with the employer. The legislator didn't say a single word about it. In order to avoid abuse and malfeasance over this, therefore, around a group of other rights that are otherwise contained in this law, this point has to stand. For these reasons, I suggest that this amendment be adopted. Besides, I have to conclude, we're still passing this law after a time of decomposition and wealth. And beyond the example of wealth comes the axis of morality. If that didn't happen, here's the contents of this article saying otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12004	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from the MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS, or Col. Stevovic, has submitted an amendment to Article 155. The draft labour law, in which paragraph 1 behind point 7 suggests adding point 8) which reads: "Other rights of employees in accordance with the law and collective agreement". The explanation - this amendment complements the programme brought by the employer. The government did not accept the amendment of counterpart Milan Stevovic, or the SRS parliamentary group, with an explanation that reads as follows: "Amendment is not accepted for the reasons that employment measures and other measures are proposed by the programme of resolving extra employees, in accordance with point 5 of point 1 of the said article of the bill. These other measures are also the rights laid down by law and collective agreement, and therefore the issue is particularly regulated. "This article 155 also says in the last position: "The programme is brought by the board of directors, and the employer is not educated by the board of directors or entrepreneurs". We can't agree with this, because it raises a question precisely in these small businesses where we have, for example, expressed self-will of directors, entrepreneurs or owners, where we often don't have an organized union because of the fear of a job by employees. There is the most present work on black or minimum wage. It is therefore unacceptable for the director, or entrepreneur, to decide on this, so we insist that the amendment be incorporated into this article. This formulation also speaks of Article 156, which says in the last position: "The employer is obliged to consider and take into account the proposals of a republican organisation responsible for the employment and opinion of the union, and to inform them of its position within eight days. "That these two members, 155th and 156th, are with each other in college, saying these things. So, the amendment to article 155 submitted by Mr Stevovic, on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, we believe that this National Assembly should accept. In the voting day, we expect you to support the amendment to Article 155, because it is in this particular article that this problem is being resolved, when it comes to overwork.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12006	Anybody else answer for a word? Here's a word from MP Vojislav Milajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12007	In this chapter, Articles 153 to 160 regulate one sensitive issue, which is an excess of employees or, as provided for by the 1998 Council of the European Union Directive, collective dismissal. This law provides for the adoption of an extra-employee programme to contain certain elements. So, the law gave a taxicab. the number of elements that this application must contain. However, we need to look at a little bit of what the programme represents. The programme is brought by an employer, who delivers an opinion to the union of the programme, and is obliged to deliver it to the National Employment Organisation as well. They are again obliged to respond within 15 days, so the union is obliged to express its opinion, and the National Employment Organisation is obliged to develop a programme of measures to address surplus employees. When it receives that opinion and the programme of measures, the employer is again obliged to respond within eight days to the union and the National Employment Organization, and that's where it all ends. So there is one form that needs to be fulfilled, a correspondence between the employer on the one hand and the other side of the union and the National Employment Organisation. When that form is fulfilled, the employer no longer has any obligation to the workers. He can simply fire those workers without any consequences. What does that mean? Practically, this means that this is just one formal protection of employees from mass layoffs and that there is no essential protection at all, means the protection behind which the state should stand, because there will be tens and hundreds of thousands of jobs, especially in the privatisation process and in the bankruptcy process, where a massive number of employees will be jobless. That is how we believe that this amendment of the SRS should be adopted. It was essential to get into this problem, as provided for by the Council of the European Union Directive, since the legislator called for the directives of the Council of the European Union. They did not respect that directive until the end. They modified it because the European Union Council Directive provides for something completely different.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12008	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 157 of the amendment was tabled by the Members of the Verse of Radet. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Parliament of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12009	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is very important, I would say even if it were of state interest. I'll tell you why. Article 157 provides that the criteria for the establishment of surplus staff cannot be the absence of a worker from work due to temporary prevention of work, pregnancy, maternity leave, child care and special care of the child. The amendment, which I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group, states that the disabled person, as well as an employee who, as a member of the Yugoslav Armed Forces, participated in armed actions after 17 August 1990, cannot stop working relations because of the need for employment until he is entitled to retire. I can't believe there's some MP who won't vote for such an amendment, because it's obvious that abandoning this very important provision in Article 157 contributes to an orchestrated attack on the military, to destroying the country's defence power, and, come on, if the government gets into it, it's her business. After all, we already have examples from the government that are slowly but surely destroying the army. We also had the budget that Minister Dinkic proposed to us on behalf of the government, i.e. to explain, but MPs must not go deaf about this fact. On the one hand, we have daily pressures on the obligation of the supposed state to deliver our citizens to The Hague, on the other hand we will not protect those who have fought, who have remained disabled in those wars since 17 August 1990, and what can we expect, who will be willing to eventually defend Serbia, what will happen if what the Shiptari are preparing for us in Kosovo and Metohija in March? My dear colleagues, this is our concern, our mutual concern, and I really recommend that you adopt this amendment. If the minister were here, he'd probably say this is a demagogy, as he said yesterday. This is usually the government's government's procedure from the end of 2000 to today, that during the working day of this House they appear or do not appear, sit for ten minutes in this room, and then at night, as if the sponsors of our work, appear behind the pay phone, hold a lecture of ten minutes and close the day of work. So yesterday, Minister Lalovic said so many nebulous things that it's just amazing. The minister says, "Let's first clarify, among other things, what the law says now, what is in the new text, because some time it is mistaken and not read." A message for Mr. Minister, the SRS MPs read everything the government has suggested and we even read what is hidden between the lines. That's why this amendment is because we're able to read and what's hidden in the government's proposal between the lines. Then, says the minister, "for the sake of Serbian citizens, I must say that here there is no understanding of the elemental matter of most of the objections being made, it is wanted to be regulated by law." Imagine miracles, MPs in the National Assembly want all areas to be governed by law. I don't know how the minister meant it to be settled without the law. Does he think that anarchy should be introduced or that communist consciousness has developed in the ministry, so he remembered Joseph Broz and his famous one - we will not stick to the law as a drunk float. In the absence of ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we must follow the law of whatever it is, and if we are changing the law, if we are passing a new law, then don't just declare that we are doing something much better, and essentially nothing better than this law, unless our amendments are accepted. I stress the particular importance of the amendments that I have quoted here and, please, on behalf of all those who have remained disabled in the country wars that have been waged in all Serbian countries, do not let you miss the vote in favour of this amendment and that these people are being targeted by employers, that they are being fired first because it was common between 2000 and today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12010	The word has an MP, Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12011	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in favour of the claim that this amendment should be supported by speeches in order to make provisions in Article 101. The draft laws were merely declarative, if not intervened in this article, in particular because it was not intervened either in Articles 179 and 183. They're talking about disabled workers. An employee with disabilities working in Article 101 of this proposal shall be obliged to ensure that work is carried out according to his ability to work. I talked about the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act not knowing these terms, but the minister said he would intervene in the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, that these concepts would be returned, that there would be a residual capacity, or disability of the third category, or the danger of disability, which is essentially to be done. If this does not exist in the provision of Article 157 that it cannot be excessive, then it is practically just declarative and has no benefit at all. Imagine what is stated in Article 157 and why the employer would fire someone, why would he put on a list of workers for whose work the need has ceased, if the state pays. Only when it comes out of that status, when it returns from maternity leave or from sick leave, does the employer decide whether the worker is busy or will be on the list of workers whose work has stopped the need. Nothing new is said, if you understand the subject we're talking about. It's not even intervened in Article 179, we'll get to it later, but only on the way to comment. It's actually a member who's in the current text of the law of 101 and is just a little bit reformed. In Article 183, it is considered that there is no justification for quitting work. Nowhere is mentioned disabled workers who have lost their health become disabled workers working with an employer under difficult working conditions, often without adequate protective means. It will remain only a declarative provision, so it is necessary to intervene in these two or three provisions in order to make sense of what is written in the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12012	The word has been made by MP Alexander Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12013	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, the SRS parliamentary group, or Mrs Verica Radeta, submitted an amendment to Article 157. I will read Article 157, paragraph 1. The draft labour law, which says: "The criterion for determining extra employees cannot be the absence of an employee from work due to temporary prevention for labour, pregnancy, maternity leave, child care and special care of the child." With this attitude of Article 157, we agree, but we also ask the Government to accept the amendment to Article 157, where we are asking that Article 2 be added to the article 2 which reads: "A disabled employee, as well as an employee who, as a member of the Yugoslav Armed Forces, participated in armed actions after 17 August 1990, cannot stop working relations due to the termination of the need for employment until he is entitled to retire." I think the explanation we gave is quite clear. This amendment primarily protects people with disabilities and employees in armed actions after 17 August 1990. Given that the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs of the National Assembly accepted this amendment, we expected the government to accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group to Article 157. It's a draft labour law. However, the government did not accept the SRS amendment and gave the following explanation - protection of disabled persons is provided with specific regulations and conditions for their employment. The following text of the reasoning says - a new law on the employment of disabled persons is foreseen in 2005 to provide conditions for their faster and easier employment and special subsidies to people with disabilities. So the government has listed here an explanation that cannot satisfy the National Assembly. The fact is that the Committee for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs of the National Assembly has been set up positively according to the amendment of Mrs Verica Radete to Article 157 and where we have asked that this amendment protect persons with disabilities and participants in armed actions after 17 August 1990. The question is, how long will this congregation last? That's one thing. This argument does not give the right answer to what you do not accept the amendment. The fact is that it is particularly important to take care of this category of employees and especially in this case when we talk about this chapter of the law and of the members who solve this Chapter XI on surplus employees. I hope that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will accept the amendment of the SRS, i.e. the SRS parliamentary group on Article 157, because if the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs expressed itself positively, on the basis of all these arguments that we have put forward behind the speaker of the National Assembly, I believe that the MPs of the National Assembly in the day of voting will vote in favour of the amendment to Article 157, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12014	The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, then the MP of Natasa Jovanovic, then the MP of the people, Momir Markovic, and we will go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12015	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the SRS, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ms. Verica Radeta. This is one of those amendments that all MPs should pay special attention to. This isn't about technical matters or legal provisions. This is one of those amendments that should essentially fix the text of this law. This is one of those amendments which in one right way shows what the government's policy really is according to certain categories of population. When we proposed here the previous amendments to increase on the basis of maternity leave by one year, when we proposed to protect minors at 15 years of age, you did not accept and now the situation of coming into conflict with the concept that you formally advocated, because now that we propose to the disabled, or those who have participated in war, or armed conflicts since 17 August 1990, you cannot resign because you have stopped the need for work, you do not, of course, accept it again. The explanation I don't think should be specifically commented, because it really doesn't make too much sense as before, and once again it answers a question that isn't asked, because you answer that another law will be passed in some future period that will regulate it. The fact that you plan to pass a special law on the employment of disabled persons does not again mean that this law will regulate the employment of members of the armed forces involved in armed conflicts. That also doesn't mean that this law will be passed, but, as so far, it's some beautiful wish and promise for the future. You shouldn't be so confident about what you've done so far and think you'll be in those places long enough, and that's especially true for a minister who, of course, as usual isn't in his place. This time, there was a comparison with the surrounding countries and the ways in which they regulated the relations and rights of their disabled and those involved in armed conflicts. Why doesn't the minister come out now and say, this is how it's regulated in Slovenia, this is how it's regulated in the Bosnian-Muslim Federation, this is how it's regulated in the Republic of Croatia. You are fond of comparisons with the Republic of Croatia when other things occur, so why don't you now say that in the Republic of Croatia the right of their natives, those who gave something for the Croatian state is regulated. Your relationship with those who betrayed this country and those who avoided serving a military term, who hid in the basements and fled abroad, is well known. You abolized them, you evened them out with those who honorably defended their country. On the other hand, those who defended the state with socks on their heads or by means of pressure, along with alleged voluntary surrenders, are extradited to foreign states. If we're not a happy country and don't give God up tomorrow, we can get into a situation where we need someone to defend this country again, I think this should be some kind of minimum that should be given and guaranteed, both for those who have defended the country in the past and for those who are expected to defend the state in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12016	The word has an MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12017	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an amendment submitted by a colleague of the Faith Radeta for you, who you don't know, you may have wondered if it was accidental or deliberate. And certainly one of the SRS MPs would insist on this if participants in the defence of Western Serbian countries in the 1990s could not lose their jobs, and not by chance, it was intentional that the amendment was filed by a woman whose origin from Livna, who is now under Ustasha occupation. A woman who cannot go to her father's grave and her ancestors, a woman who knows best what a heroic struggle every Serb who has responded to go to defend west of Drina and Danube Serbian people and Serbian countries. If you have not had enough of its argument and what you have heard so far, if it is not enough for you to have those who were participants in the defence of the country, and probably amongst the SRS and the MPs there are many, some unfortunately have passed their lives on the altar of the country and have been in earlier councils – think that you can find yourself in that skin and many of you, because they belong to the parties who will certainly lose their election and will not be re-elected, you can be the ones who will be left without a job – and they have participated in the defense of Western Serbian countries or in defending our people in Kosovo and Metohija. Think of people who are employed in numerous factories in our country and those who have already lost their jobs, who have been involved in the defence of Western Serbian countries. Who knows how many there are, and I could get to that 2001 data, and in one day, 15,000 people were fired in the flag group in Kragujevac, they were out of work, and they defended the Serbian people and the Serbian country. It is already a common practice for us from this pay phone through media performances, in contact with you, in any way we speak and remind you of what is most important for a nation and one state. If you follow the case of your colleague Radete and the fact that she cannot go to her eternal hearth and visit the graves of her loved ones, then you will know that she has already found her home here, here in Serbia. Human victims are irreparable, and on the other hand, man can provide himself with a roof over his head, employment and continue, as she does, to fight for the interests of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. But think of those people who do not have the opportunity to publicly express their position, as a colleague of Radeta, who is a Serbian radical, can do. Think of those workers who will face the law tomorrow, simply as three DOS ministers came to Kragujevac that night and left 15,000 people out of work. A new minister from this recycled DOS will come and say: you are out of a job, and that man knows that he has made a selfless contribution to the defence of the Serbian people and the Serbian state. What do you say to disabled people, what about those who have been disabled in the country's war since the 1990s? In Kragujevac, you have the case that, following the adoption of that phantom labour law, which was discussed in the principle debate, a card from Thessaloniki, Borislav Novakovic, and by the arrival of these three hated DOS ministers in Kragujevac, many people who were disabled in the work expected that the then DOS furniture would at least begin what it promised them, i.e. to allow them to work uninterruptedly in so-called. Protective workshops. Nor is this the case at the Zastava - dedicated products factory, nor is it in the car factory, and there are no protection workshops in numerous factories, nor in this U.S. "Steel", former "Sardid" in Smederev. Explain to these people how you're going to take care of them, if we don't commit ourselves here, through the adoption of this amendment and the amendment of the law, or the failure, because he didn't want the legislator to think about these people, that they wouldn't lose their jobs. It's not just the Kragujevac problem, where in September, according to a contract signed, it stops working on the so-called "Second." Employment and education office. The problem is with many companies that the state doesn't care about and where people wait for what happens next. (President: Time.) 7 days ago, when one of the Serbian heroes and the honorable general, although we Serbian radicals had a different opinion, General Lazarevic, decided to go to The Hague tribunal, many of you, the MPs, the presidents of your parties and the officials of your parties, went public with what was really true -- that he heroically defended the people and the state, that he was one of the Serbian heroes, a general who was honorable and who knew to put himself in the service of his country and the service of his people. The question arises why didn't you say it until the moment he decided to surrender voluntarily and go to The Hague for a show. If you have a conscience and if you have a responsibility to people who did what was best and brightest in Serbian tradition and in history, vote for the Radete amendment. This will show and set an example for future generations that you will think, whenever necessary, of defending what is ours, because we have never sought anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12018	The word has an MP, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if I am certain for one amendment that most MPs of the ruling coalition will vote, then I am sure they will vote in favour of this amendment, for the simple reason that many of you, many of your loved ones, have since the 1990s, taken the rifle into their hands and went to defend Serbian countries and Serbian borders. Had it not been for those who took the rifle in their hands in the 1990s, then the Tudjman would have been able to come and drink coffee in Zemun; if it hadn't been for those who took the rifle in their hands in the 1990s, then the Bosniak language would have been taught in the entire territory of the Republika Srpska; if it hadn't been for those who took the rifle in their hands in 1999, today the Shiptari would have been with Nis, if not for that. Serbia, Serbia, this country run by this government, has been defended by heroes who are on call to the country's battlefield to defend Serb hearths. This country, this nation cannot and cannot forget. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, even in the past law, the rights of those combatants of the 1990s were not covered properly. This law completely erases them. In response to the amendment submitted by the People's MP Verica Radeta, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the protection of persons with disabilities is provided by special regulations and conditions for their employment"; further said: "In 2005, the adoption of a new law on the employment of persons with disabilities, which will provide conditions for their faster and easier employment and special subsidies to employers, etc.... "Who says this law will be passed, no matter what it says? There's nowhere to talk about fighters who've been lucky enough not to get hit by a bullet on the battlefield. Anyone who has smelled a bit of gunpowder, anyone who has had a little taste of gunpowder in their family, will surely vote for this amendment. If it hadn't been for those fighters, there wouldn't have been this Serbia that you, unfortunately of Serbia, are running today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12020	The word has an MP named Stevica Dedjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will quote Article 157, which reads: "The criterion for determining extra employees cannot be the absence of an employee from work due to temporary prevention for labour, pregnancy, maternity leave, child care and special care of the child." If you have followed well what has been said so far, you know that this amendment has been adopted by the Committee, where it is only required that employees of disabled people and employees who have been involved in the defence wars since 17 August 1990 be protected. If we adopt this, it would be a good incentive for those who love the homeland, for those who are honest and honest people and who are hosts. So they're separated from the bastards that were running away and sitting somewhere outside the country, as we've heard in the past, while our enemies burned down the country. Just to remind you that these same people came to burn down our congregation and television, they still declared themselves folk heroes. We've heard that in the past. If they are already deserters, they are not in prison, and if most of those who do not vote for this amendment are found among deserters, at least let's protect honest and honest people, unrunning patriots, who would not put black bags on people's heads and who would not force Serbian generals into The Hague because they fought together. I want to believe there are few people here who will vote for the people who defended the country to be on the street. If that is not so, then it is fortunate that the greatest Serb military leader, Duke Misic, Duke Putnik, Stepa Stepanovic and others, do not live at this time when, in your opinion, the sale of Serbian generals is considered a success and patriotism.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12022	The word has an MP, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12023	The amendments are probably not controversial to anyone, but what amazes us is that the Government did not accept this amendment, and in response to their explanation it stands by the system – who in a wedge, who in a board. We're looking for something by amendment, and the government suits us as if she's either not reading this amendment, or she's pretending she doesn't know what the text of this amendment is. If you wanted to do something epochal and to regulate labour rights, working relationship, obligations, then you could rewrite all the conventions of the International Labour Organization and have one raw law that might look like something, but it wouldn't be our law, because it wouldn't contain what is the policy of this country, this society and these citizens. Maybe this amendment and the amendment submitted to article 155 is just proof that something's wrong with the government. These are the two obvious amendments, obviously their acceptance, that it is difficult to defend these amendments. Since there's a few pair of ears here in this formulation, you who don't want to hear about the 90th year and what happened to us, which represents other people's interests, not ours, I need to tell you what yours say. They say the SFRY fell apart in 1992. As you can see, it was given here before that on August 17, 1990. SFRJ, there was an obligation to serve the army, there was an obligation to mobilize, and now someone was responding to mobilization, someone was running away, and there are MPs in the Netherlands hiding because of the mescus. They were in pain of menescue so they couldn't go to the army to avoid it. Since we are talking about the obligations of citizens to the state and some of the obligations and duties that the state has towards the citizens, we will all agree that it is an obligation of the citizen to respond to the call of his country. I understand those who called on the graffiti in Belgrade to drop their weapons, to run home. I understand those who staged the March unrest while Ustasha Kama worked there in Slavonia, they represent that policy. I don't expect them to accept this amendment. It would be even degutant. I don't want to put them in a situation where they're now spraying their ashes, like, "Pull dots, it doesn't count." According to election programmes of the parties represented in the National Assembly, I am sure, on the basis of messages sent to citizens, that there is a majority who will adopt this amendment. With this amendment, on behalf of the citizens who chose us to be here, we give a kind of recognition to the people who respected the state. For all this I have stated, there are reasons in the decisions of the International Court of Justice of 15 December 2004, when they found that they were not competent to decide and judge by our suit filed against eight NATO pact states that carried out an armed attack, aggression, in violation of all possible international conventions. Since there are silks who don't like to hear harsh words, let them interpret that this is positive discrimination. She's constitutionally allowed. So, this positive discrimination, an ugly word, some of which may be better understood, could be applied here when it comes to citizens, employees who have met their country's obligations, and, of course, when they bring the criteria on which the surplus is established, these deserve special attention and protection, because the state and society give them recognition that they have gained courage, and it took a lot of courage, given that some say – don't go, others say – run, the third say – leave us, we are a small, new reality and something else that was used as an excuse or as a real argument for spreading defetism that Serbia would be, narrower and less, to the Belgrade Pashaluka. (President: Time.) I'm done. Since that option did not win, the option did not win because the people did not want it, these people should be given recognition, even if a crumb of recognition in the light of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12024	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dusan Prorokovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12025	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure we won't vote against this amendment. Further explanations are needed and, in line with these explanations, it is necessary to determine whether or not we will vote in favour or in abstention. If this amendment solves the question of hiring disabled people, I don't mind, but I doubt it. So, what happens if the company goes bankrupt, whether or not, because according to the letter of the law they won't be able to leave without a working relationship one disabled or someone who participated in armed actions, that's the second chapter, but then that should be regulated in the second chapter. There's a series of hypothetical situations that can happen. We were witnesses two years ago and that an unpleasant event, it wasn't directly about military people with disabilities, was it? Frikom, while a state-owned company, i.e. in the majority ownership of the state, granted scholarships to children of the dead members of the Yugoslav Army in previous wars, when he bought it from Croatia's Agrikor. The first thing that has done with the new management, headed by Mr. Todorovic, is that these scholarships have been abolished. So we must protect both wartime military people and their family members. It is close to me to what Minister Lalovic said, that this can be done in a different systematic way, by subsidising from the budget, by opening new jobs for people with disabilities, not by returning to an old 1996 solution. I repeat, if this is a solution to the problems encountered during privatisation, when disabled people are released, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12026	Replica, MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12027	Well, here's the look at the replica. The previous one missed the subject. This is a chapter relating to extra employees and their rights. When it comes to surplus employees, the employer remains and this member refers to the criteria on which the surplus is determined. We ask this amendment to respect this situation, and when it comes to disabled people and participants of these armed conflicts since 17 August 1990, to protect them, and what you were talking about, bankruptcy, etc., it is the next 40 members, it is a request for employees in the event of bankruptcy. So there's a difference. The amendment only promotes one criterion that an employer needs to respect so that these employees have this benefit so that they are not just declared excess and that there is no similar situation, I cannot compare it with the one you listed as Fricca, it does not surprise me. That man came, he knows who he belongs to, what he thinks, and so on. Lucky for us he didn't start killing at the factory. The scholarship he denied, it was the least evil he could bring. But I don't know how Svilanovic wouldn't vote for this amendment. He was a war participant. How could some others, who rightly defended the state during 1999, not vote in favour of this amendment? Not every time you take a rifle in Serbia, it's a Serb's fault. That can't even be true theoretically. That someone wants to install guilt at all costs, pathologically, then the place is not the National Assembly, but Biserko, Vuco, Vojin Dimitrijevic, the one in black, in white, in green, etc. (President: Do not, colleague Krasic, please, people who are not present here. ) You have a big choice, 20,000 NGOs, even that Buca Kovacevic, he has 60 in his name. Please, we have to fence, let's say, that doesn't belong to my system of values, most of the citizens represented in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There's no anger, there's a clean bill of long love. We need to know which positions he's in. If Socrates wants to be protected as a participant in the war, he'll vote. There are a lot of MPs who, at the invitation of the state, put on their uniforms and now they're to blame. Why is it their fault? The greatest reputation they should have. Here's a higher reputation for those who have fallen. And the one with the bulldozer, you wrote him off, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12028	The word is from Ambassador Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12029	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment was submitted to Article 157 of this law by the MP of the SRS Verica Radet and tried better to regulate the rights of disabled people from the last wars in declaring a technological surplus or because of some other situation in the company, when a number of people should be left without a job. Please hear me, they deserve to be talked about at least if we can't help them. The amendment is good, there's a feller, if the employer knows he can't fire him, one day he won't pick him when he hires him. That's the basic problem with this amendment. This question should be settled by the state in a different way. The SPS will support this amendment, so I'm just saying what's the problem here, but the state needs to settle this issue another way; therefore, I speak for myself, my unit of war has been mobilized six times, many of these people have never returned home, and many have returned with severe physical damage. It is our duty to speak on their behalf and protect them at every possible level, therefore, by the means the state has. It would be best to resolve it in some other way, because the interests of employers are not to employ people with disabilities and if there is this provision. And yet I will vote for this amendment. So we're going to have a negative relationship with the last-war disabled. In what environment today, the political environment, the living fighters and the disabled from the previous war? At worst, they're almost all satanized. The military or the police they belonged to, and the state in whose name they fought, and the people they fought for, unfortunately, today speak of them differently than they deserve. In the Army of the former Yugoslavia, the First, Second and Third Army were abolished, the Drin Division, the Kragujeva Corps, and now all Corpses will be abolished, and the Pristina Corps will be removed, i.e. it should be removed, I think of Nis, and then it will be abolished. The commander of the Pristina Corps, the legendary general, is in The Hague today. His companions, those whom he commanded, some of them are disabled, some of them have not returned. They deserve respect, they deserve a proper relationship, first of all, a state that must have a commitment to them. Please, these people did not send working organizations to war to call for mobilization, and when NATO aggression was under way, general mobilization was declared and every military official was obliged to report to his war unit as soon as possible. So it's not an employer's obligation, it's a government obligation. The state should have the strength to replace what is possible for these people, because when someone has a physical injury, a health disorder, it is not possible to pay for any money. I call upon all those who are here, when there was a debate on equalising the rights of the Chetniks and the Partisans, to vote that these fighters, whatever I think about it, get similar rights, to do the same for these fighters, no more or less. Then we'll have one problem on one level smaller, and these people won't be discouraged in such a way that the state doesn't take care of them anymore. That's very important, because, once again I say, none of them, except volunteers who did it based on their own assessment, the sense of belonging to one nation, and the need to defend it, went differently than by calling their own country. It's very important, it's a regulated state system and the state has to answer it in the only possible way. So they deserve better treatment and we owe it to each of us, and each of us knows who it represents, that we look after them in such a way that we do the most we can in every law to make things easier for them, which is not at all envious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12030	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12031	Article 157 of this Law provides for criteria when establishing extra employees, where the legislator accidentally or intentionally failed to classify this category of people as a protected category of mass layoff and job loss. As my predecessors have said, the people who took the gun in their hands and defended this country deserve the greatest possible protection by the state and the absolute state has to stand behind them, and I don't think there should be any discussion on this matter. I'm glad the SPS, according to my predecessor, is behind this amendment and will support the SRS amendment, and we need to stand behind it, but I don't understand why the DSS still doesn't have a position, but it's being neutrally declared, we'll see, we don't know, it's not clear whether we should vote or not. I think absolutely everyone has to support it. This is a very important and significant amendment. And in the notice of the previous amendment, I have called on the Council of the European Union Directive to regulate collective dismissal and it provides for restrictions on the category of persons who cannot be fired. This applies to those persons not subject to this Directive. These are people who work for a certain time, employees who work in public services and state administration and employees who work on maritime vessels. The final provisions of this Directive state that national legislation can extend the rights of collectively dismissed employees, so I think that this amendment, which has been tabled by the SRS, in this sense extends the rights of employees, absolutely has no reason not to adopt it, because the Council of the European Union directive itself provides for the possibility of extending the right by giving basic rights. I think it is better for our country and for our citizens to adopt this amendment to the SRS and to adopt the Council of the European Union Directive than to accept the Directive, Carla del Ponte.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12032	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Replica, Mr. Prophetic. Just to inform some MPs, based on consultations with one of the heads of parliament, since next week, February 15th, on Tuesday, statehood day, is not working. The proposal is, without any delay, that the Assembly is sitting down this Friday. She usually works every day, but the session will be held on Friday, and then, of course, Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday will be unworkable days, so it will continue from Wednesday, and will most likely be agreed on. It's simple, for planning your activities. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Prophet.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12033	Thank you. I'll repeat what I said. If this solves the problem of people with disabilities, the problem of people who were, as the amendment states, members of the Yugoslav Armed Forces – and their position, i.e. working status and employment relations, no problem, we will vote in favour. But I just don't do numbers right now. I said it's possible a series of hypothetical situations. Mr. Baralic listed one. So we need information at this point -- how many people with disabilities are in a working relationship and how many are not. What if all of them are 20 percent employed and 80 percent not? So, by adopting this amendment, we will give the right to keep these 20% employed until retirement, and the other 80%, which are currently on the Bureau, no employer will want to receive a working relationship, because the fact is that he will never be able to quit. That man can do whatever he wants, he won't be fired. When we have the numbers in front of us, when we see what number of people we're dealing with, then we'll be able to vote on this amendment. Of course, I repeat again -- here you need a system solution; a relief for people who receive disabled people, a change in the set of laws regarding their status and their position. As you have said, it is stated in the European Commission directives, but it is not only necessary to amend the labour law but rather to change a series of other laws, namely, as the minister stated in the reasoning, in mid-2005, it is envisaged that all of this should be changed. But I repeat, if the figures relating to these categories of faces are such that we can protect them with this amendment, there's no problem, we'll accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12034	I thank you, Mr. Prophet. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (He speaks to the Messenger, the Prophet, the Prophet, the Prophet, the Prophet, the Prophet, the Prophet, Please, of course it wasn't replicated to you. You have a replica of Mr. Prophetic? Excuse me, please, Mrs. Radeta, a replica of Mr. Prophetic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12035	It doesn't matter, Mr. President, whether we call this a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it matters something else. This amendment is so clear that I don't understand why some MPs are trying to, behold, say -- they would vote for this amendment if it were clearer. This is about something else. I understand Mr. Prophetic. It's not easy for him in front of the voters, who told another story in the election campaign, to say -- well, we don't care about those who have been fighting since 1990, and we won't vote for this amendment. Now, you're trying, Mr. Prophetic, to say -- well, if you'd be more clear, you'd vote, but that's unclear, so you don't know if you'll be held back. Tell the citizens of Serbia whether you vote or not. I'm just going to explain to you what Mr. Krasic has already explained, but let me rephrase it perhaps in another way. This is about us talking about people with disabilities and war participants since 1990 who are already employed. And, with this amendment, we prevent employers from firing them as extra labor. The fact is, there are unemployed. The fact is, he's got a lot of problems here. These people have a lot of problems, they don't have jobs, they don't have apartments, they're being chased one way or the other. Now here's the theme - employees and proclaiming employees of extra labour. And we, in this article, are the subject of these few members in this section of the law, that's what we say, and there was nothing else to say here. We don't mind the state helping these people in every way possible, because these people deserve it, more than anyone. Why is this amendment important? Because we know from what's been going on in the last four years, and Mr. Prophetic, you must know it yourself. After all, you set an example of ending these scholarships. And you also have a lot of examples when you had to fire, make some kind of employee layoff program, that employers first told me -- what I want with those who fought, what I need with those who were disabled. And Miss Natasa Jovanovic told you how many thousands of those in Kragujevac, say, are out of work. Kragujevac is not the only and only case. We had examples in the Zemun municipality in early 2001, and I'm sure you all know from your place, where you come from, that there were such examples. Therefore, in this amendment, nothing is really unclear, nothing is disputed. The only question is who's ready to vote for this and who's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12036	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. (Dusan Prophetovic asks for a word. Please, don't, it's really clear to me. I find it really strange that 14 speakers were trying to explain what was clear to everyone. There's no reason, it's clear to everyone, thank you. Member of the 158th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP Dusan Mrvos. Mr. Prophetovich, do you agree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12037	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament in brief - Article 158 says that the employer is obliged to pay the severance fee before cancelling the employment contract, and this is quoted here, "if he works for up to ten years with that employer a third of the remuneration for each year spent with the employer; if he works over ten years of income for each year spent with the employer". I have made an amendment on behalf of the New Serbia-SPO Parliament Club. The amendment requires that a third of the earnings for each year spent in a working relationship be paid. In an explanation of why the amendment was rejected, it is said: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this article provides for a minimum right to severance. The employer who has the opportunity to pay the greater severance payment determined by a general act or contract of work." And that's great. It stands at least one-third and at least one-quarter, but the essence is neither in a third nor in a quarter, nor in a fifth, nor in a half, nor in a ninth, but is the essence of paying for each year carried out in a working relationship. Is there an employer with whom he is employed and declared a technological surplus or someone else's? Hypothetically, it can be a thing like this. A man works 20 years in one company, the employer changes, and after six months or a year, he becomes a technological surplus and gets severance in six months or a year, even though he worked a little more in the same company. I don't want to owe it, we don't want to explain it, I don't want to elaborate on it, but it's discretionary law and the minister and the ministry, and the government, in the extreme case, to accept or not accept some of the amendments, but it doesn't need to be given such a hypocritical explanation for not accepting a certain amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12038	Anyone else want to talk about the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Jovan Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12039	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, in the opening statement, Mr. Minister said that the proposed labour law had reached a certain balance between the rights and obligations that are on the part of the employer and the rights and obligations that are on the side of employees. There is no doubt that in a series of provisions provided for in the proposed law there is a real shift in relation to the solutions made in the Labour Act. However, Article 158 is a member who, when it comes to the rights of employees, represents a step backwards in relation to the solutions we had in the Labour Act and also in relation to the 1996 legislation, or the Labour Relations Act. Personally, I can say that I did not hear the argument or at least I did not understand why it was necessary to ignore the employer’s entire working life when determining the severance payment by the employer in the proposed law, provided that it was only for years of work with that employer, and to ignore the entire working life, the whole working relationship that existed in the previous period. There is no doubt that we are still a country in which the privatisation process has not been completed, where there will be no doubt in many cases the identification of extra employees by customers of certain enterprises that were in social property, but there is no doubt that the labour market is developing more dynamically and that employees are changing employment relations and establishing new employment relations with other employers. There is no doubt that the state is in a difficult social situation and that a large number of employees receive minimum income and that this particular severance would mean a lot if it were obtained. It's not clear why an entire working century that one employee has spent is ignored. I can understand the motive. This law promotes, and that is a good, contractual relationship that is established and promotes bargaining, both individually between the employer and the employee, and collectively. It would be likely that this racio would be that a new employer, whose employee founded a working relationship, doesn't care what happened in the previous period, doesn't care about the working relationship that existed on the basis of an earlier labour contract. However, a large number of employers in Serbia did not base labour relations solely on work contracts, but based on some other legal acts. I think that this provision, which is now in place, understanding that the racio relating to contracts and incentivising contracts, is premature in Serbian legislation and that the minister and the ministry could once again review the concept proposed in Article 158, where only the payment of the severance is being made on the basis of years spent with one employer. Because the moment in which Serbia is located, the unfinished privatisation process, a difficult social situation, may require that these solutions that were in the Labour Act be maintained, which is generally worse than the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12040	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Minister Lalovic answered the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12041	A few things are important here to say. It's mentioned, and that's really what I think it's important to say here when it comes to the Solidarity Fund that we've provided for this law, it's once again been an issue of this or that kind. I just want to say about one approach that I think you should, when you're criticizing something, point to a possible rational solution. I think that this Solidarity Fund that we introduced into the system, we didn't have it until yesterday, but now the problem is how much money it is, what size it is, etc. I'm simply talking about the approach they're going to seek and always ask, no matter how much you have a new and good solution, he's going to find something to make a comment. I'm just talking about one principled wrong approach. Why this size in the Solidarity Fund? Why are these amounts? Because we will, unlike earlier periods, that what we foresee as the right to pay for it. So we're not going to predict naked law, which we've often had in this country's system. It sounds very nice. It's just nowhere to be found. So unlike that approach, it doesn't have to sound so nice, but it does matter that it does. So this level of justice that we've predicted at the Solidarity Fund is what this country can withstand at this point. What's also said here and I think it's important, and it's kind of talking about the concept, I'm going to try to sum it up. When it comes to retaining rights, when the employer changes, we predict for a year, and here it has been two years on one side, and on the other side 60 days it has been an amendment. So what I'm saying is that we're trying to find a balance, which I said from the start, without having to get cheap on someone, anyone, any side here. So we're looking for a balance and our estimate is that at this point in the year it's a balance, and all over it would be questionable if there's ever going to be a change in employer, if anyone's going to buy a company if they're going to keep the same relationship for two, three, five years. Then who are we doing it for? Do we work for workers in Serbia then? Of course we're working directly against them. That's what it looks like when it sounds nice. Let's go two or twenty-two years to apply the same thing, so that's how it ends. We have the other side when you say 60 or 30 days to work. It's another completely extreme approach. So this government is not extremist, and there are simply extreme views here. Extreme attitudes you always know whose damage they're at. The weakest in one society, so workers who are now in the most difficult position. The same logic when it comes to this argument that I was talking about is also true of this severance, which is what my colleague Mrvos was talking about. What exactly is this about? It's about the need to find a measure that won't destimulate employers. Why did we predict this solution? Because according to the proposed solution we've given a far greater amount, the worker gets a far greater amount than the current solution. But, of course, we made this fine distinction that the employer he's working with, and that was simply the measure of things. Because all the time we worked on this law we had to bear in mind the need to, on the one hand, remain interested in employers and owners of capital to invest, to open jobs and to work, that's one tas, and the other is the measure to protect to an appropriate, possible and sufficient extent employees who should work with these employers. In either of these two things, whether we give too much to the employers, there was too much right to give to the workers, we do both harm to each other, but we essentially do damage to all of us, cause damage to Serbia and its citizens. These examples of the extension of the deadline and the height of the severance payment show the approach that we have all the time and logically keep throughout the law. It is a question of measures when regulating mutual relations between employers and workers. In the same way, we have access to what may seem or act attractive, and that is a ban on firing as an excess disabled and combatant since 1990. That sounds nice. The only problem with what sounds nice is that it's usually going to be at the expense of those we want to protect, and that's actually a constant problem when we approach things like that. We are now finished and this assembly will have very quickly, I expect already in March, the law on employment and rehabilitation of disabled people, which in a completely new and different way regulates the position of disabled people in Serbia. What new way is that? The basic idea of the new law that you're going to have here is when it comes to disabled people doing everything possible to train them to work, not to make the whole system so that somehow they go to some social, retirement, not to work, to get them out of the way. So, completely reverse logic, to train disabled people as long as they can do certain jobs according to the remaining work capacity. We think it's far more humane than pushing a disabled person out of business, out of society. It's a matter of self-respect. So this whole new concept of the disability position, which you're going to talk about here, is just absolutely out of line with this approach that we have, which is essentially an approach from the past. When it comes to combatants and combatants, disabled, special, new law on combat and disability protection, which you will also have opportunities to adopt this spring, if God gives health, in a special and good way, you will see, regulate the position of fighters, disabled fighters, families of dead fighters. In that law, among other things, we through this law will solve the housing problems of disabled and their families, that is, the families of the dead fighters. I simply point to the fact that in these two things that have been spoken of, the fighters and the disabled are not in this sense the subject of this law anymore, but two special laws that the Assembly here will adopt in a much better way than so far regulate this matter. Just one more sentence to say, I'm sorry, I was late this morning, and just so the MPs have information on why I was late. Because we had another JAT meeting. I hope we finish our JAT talks tomorrow, and we'll solve that problem. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12042	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:00. [[After break – 15:30]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our afternoon work today's session. According to official records, 92 MPs attend this sequel. In order to determine the quorum for work, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I understand we have a quorum to work with. We continue to work on the amendments. Members of the 158th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Bojan Kekic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? MP Bojan Kekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12044	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I will try to explain this amendment, given the fact that it speaks, above all, of minimum rights for the severance of employees. The SPS Parliamentary Group submitted this amendment to Article 158 of the proposed law, which concerns, above all, surplus employees, but is in close contact with Article 179(9) of the Act, which speaks when the employer can cancel the contract, and this is if, due to technological, economic and other organisational changes, the need to carry out the work ceases or the work is reduced. It's so-called. known Institute of Technological Excess. The government has not accepted the amendment of the SPS parliamentary group, with the reason that it is a matter of determining the minimum rights of employees. It is true that this amendment lays down a minimum of rights, but it is true that we, as MPs of the SPS, wanted by this amendment and by improving the law to increase the minimum of rights, both in this way and in this way. The bill promoter also benefits the Institute for 10 years, i.e. separates employees who have been with the employer for 10 years or over 10 years, so that, within the severance, they can, for each year, spend one-third of the year with that employer, they get one-third, and they can get over 10 years one-quarter. We suggest that all employees, in accordance with Article 179 point 9, if the need for their work ceases, receive one half of the earnings, and most of all I will show on the case. The company, as we called it by adopting the Business Society Act, when it comes to the situation of declaring the need to work as employees, in 99%, and in all 100% of cases it pays minimum earnings. What would that mean in today's current conditions, which is that the employer, under the proposed law, would pay 5,600 dinars, what is the minimum profit. The person who spent 10 years would get 18,000, and the person who had 11 years of training would get 15,500 dinars. Such indifference puts an unequal position for only one year of the worker who spent longer with the employer. Our proposal in nominal terms is that within 10 years the employer's internship would have to pay 28,000 dinars or 50% calculated from the lowest profit, meaning 5,600 times 10 divided by 28,000. It can be said immediately that the employer, paying 28,000 workers for whom the need has ceased, gives a five-month bill of his earnings for the next period. I tried this in a plastic way to explain, just because of this illogicalness for about 10 years, but I also think that a person who spent 10 and more years with an employer, some kind of satisfaction from half the profit for each year can represent a certain satisfaction. I hope that all MPs understood, first of all, this nominal amount, that employers would not come into some much more difficult position, given that they had been identified as firing workers, that this amendment would be adopted and thus represent a minimum of the rights of the workers to the severance.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12045	Anyone else on this amendment? National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12046	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 158. The draft labour law is one of the key members of this law, and speaks of the severance that the employer is obliged to pay to the worker when canceling the labour contract under Article 179 of this Act. No wonder there are three amendments to this article. I would like to give this opportunity a few more interesting information, which would convince the MPs that whatever amendment is accepted by these three proposed ones, each one is better than the draft labour law. Here's why. The explanation given by the government, which has two parts, reads: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason why this article provides for a minimum right to severance. (That's the minimum that runs everywhere in the law. ) An employer who has the option may pay for a higher severance payment determined by a general act or contract of employment. ) This is the intensity of the whole law. Knowing the logic of employers, that this famous cost called the worker is the least possible and knowing the concept of the minister, this will remain the same in all other acts. Otherwise, I'll repeat when he's a minister, it's true that we differ in concept and there's no dispute. He's interested in the world of capital, we're interested in the world of work. It does not occur to us to convince Serbian citizens that they will all be capitalists, and no one will be a worker in Serbia. The second part of the argument is literally like this: "The decision in the bill in relation to the current law gives greater rights to employees, i.e. determines the severance in a larger amount. "Shortly speaking, that's not true. Here's why it's not true, or just at first sight it's true. I deliberately apostrophe this because very often in the public and in the press mentions this story that this is better and bigger than it was in the previous Labour Act, if we should even compare ourselves to the worst labour law. It's not for at least two reasons. First, up to 10 years he predicted 1/3 of the average profit and over ten years. That's not fair, I hope the minister thought, when he suggested this, that a worker who is more than 10 years old for the first 10 would get a third, and over 10 other quarters, but that's not what the law says. It's true that it turns out by calculating that if we take a gross profit, because the minister likes to use that term, 20,000, the nine-year-old intern will have a 60,000-year-old fee, and the 11-year-old intern will have a 55,000-year-old. At the very least, it's not fair. The second problem that arises here, which is why this argument is not true, is that the internship counts only for this employer. So if they only worked with that employer, then the bill is correct. But that's why, if they were working with someone else, then it's not true. Here's an example. It's 20,000 again. If they only worked with this employer for 8, 18, 28, 32 years, they would receive a fee of 53,000, 90,000, 140,000 and 160,000, but if they worked half with another employer they would receive a fee of 26,000, 60,000, 70, and 80,000. So it's a big difference. Then it's no better than the worst law that was passed in 2001. (President: Time. ) As a result, for these reasons, and because of the great abuses and logic of the employer, we will find that the employer of the employee who has the surplus is transferred to another company, in which he may also be the owner and automatically reduces the number of years employed by the same employer, not to mention, to zero. For these reasons, whatever the amendment is accepted by these three is better than the basic solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12047	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? People's MP Tom Bushetic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12048	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member of the 158th Law is very important. It is true that the proposer in this article offers a better solution than it is in the applicable law, because if we calculated these fees, it would be more favourable than the applicable law. The applicable law envisioned from two earnings to five salaries for the case of technological surpluses. These solutions are somewhat better, however, the whole member is very confused because of everything that is possible, since here is the basic criterion of working time, that someone with a 10-year job internship has a greater cash compensation than someone who has 11 years of internship. I don't think the motionary can make one of these mistakes. On the other hand, our solution is even more favourable, because we have suggested that for each year half of our earnings are accounted for, so that if the minister accepted our amendment, we would have a solution that was approximately the solution that was valid until 2001, when we had 24 salaries for a working internship over 25 years. So, with this solution, up to 20 years, if we accepted our proposal, we'd have 10 salaries, 32 years' worth of 16 salaries, more unfavourable than it was in 2001, but more favourable than in the current proposal. On the other hand, it is unacceptable for us to count this cash or severance fee only with the last employer. That's what my colleague used to say in the afternoon debate, we said it on the board. It's almost amazing that someone's been working for 20 years with one employer, then he's been working for three or four years with another employer, and he's only counting on these last three or four years. I'd like to remind you, this is a very important member of the law, when we talk about technological surpluses, about the possibilities of firing workers, that we've already regulated it in a much better way, that the employer was obliged to offer retraining, retraining, some other job, that the criteria, when deciding on a technological surplus, were very clear and accurate and that all the computer, and the results of work, work experience, and the complexity of work, and the property situation of the employee, and the number of children at school, and the number of children in general and many other criteria. All these criteria are always good to write in law, because the employer, if these criteria are not in the law, can in his general act do as he pleases. When we talk about the protection of disabled workers and war participants, it was all regulated during the 1990s, when it was the Labour Relations Act. We support the amendment relating to the previous member, we know best that this country should have been defended, it was our state policy and our party policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12049	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Milovanovic submitted to Article 158 of the amendment. The government has not accepted the amendment, the Labour Committee, the fight and social issues have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? The Messenger of the People, Verica Radet, and the Messenger of the people, Zoran Krasic, and the Messenger of the people, Aleksandar Djordjevic, and the Messenger of the people, Momir Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12050	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Milovanovic, an SRS MP, proposed an amendment to Article 158. It's a draft labour law. Article 158 speaks when an employer is obliged to pay the severance in respect of a general act or contract of employment prior to the cancellation of the contract of employment, within the meaning of Article 179, to pay the severance of the compensation established by the general act or contract of employment of the employee, namely: 1) to 10 years in the employment relationship with the employer where the employee is identified as a surplus – for each completed year of work with that employer at least a third of the employee's salary; 2) over 10 years spent in the employment relationship with the employer where the employee is identified as a surplus – for each completed year in that employer, at least a quarter of the employee's salary. He's not the minister here, and I'm not gonna say I'm sorry he's not here, but it's not nice that he's not here because he belongs here when it comes to the labour law. It would be good if, by chance, he stopped by before his appointment at 10 minutes to 1800 hours when he gave the final word to the MPs, that he was calculating, and my colleagues before me were showing a receipt of the application of this article 158, and I would very much like the minister to come in and see what that fee is for whoever is 10 years of employment, what it is for him who is 12 years old and what it means to make a difference in this way. Therefore, we in the SRS have the view that Article 158 should be amended and it is said that the employer is obliged to cancel the labour contract, within the meaning of Article 179(9) of this Act, to pay the employee the severance amount established by the general act and the labour contract, and the compensation for each completed year of employment cannot be lower than a third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in the employment relationship. This is what the SRS is and we do not accept the government's argument, because the government says the amendment is not accepted for the reason why this article provides for a minimum right to severance. This is some specificity related to the minister, it says, an employer who has the opportunity to pay off more severance money which is determined by a general act or contract of work. Dear colleagues, this is not a market, this is the National Assembly. At the market, you can say, five dinars, and maybe four dinars, maybe six dinars, and in the National Assembly when the law is passed, then the legal norm must be clear, precise, concise, and we must not allow through the laws to open up the possibility of abuse. If we say there's something we can do and leave it to someone else's conscience, then it won't be anything. All of them are clear problems that they have employees of these new privatisations, because the first job of whoever buys the company is to see how many employees they're going to fire and we can't fight with existing laws, let alone if we put someone's law on good faith whether they're going to pay as much or as much. That is why the minister says today that we who are proposing amendments and the government have a different concept approach, i.e. different concepts of solving this problem. Thank God that's true, because it would be worrying that, God forbid, we have the same concept. Then the minister said in his ten to six final words yesterday that it is we who propose amendments that we close the door for investment to Serbia, because we want to damage the employer because we increase certain amounts compared to the proposed legislation. To ask the Minister in absentia if we are closing the door to investments by giving employees who remain unemployed more than we suggest or investment doors to the minister and his government, and the previous government, the thief's privatisations, and in an attempt to "Knjiza Miloša", "C Market", "Centroproducer", "Yugormedia" and not to list, or close the door to investments by a devastating economic policy of the government, an unstable legal system, the play of regulations. I think all that can be burdened by the government is closing the door for investors in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12051	The People's MP Zoran Krasic has the word, and after him, let Aleksandar Djordjevic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12052	First of all, it could be said that MPs at least confuse these arguments why the government does not accept these amendments. Now, if an explanation of the refusal is considered, when it comes to the amendment of Milovan Radovanovic, so it is compared to the amendment submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Bojan Kekic, then no one can understand what the government wanted to respond to. My predecessors talked a lot about this, whether two or three, whether a quarter, and I'd try to explain why there's even a right, because it's obviously not going to be clear to some people when they say it, because it stops working, as a last resort, because it's declared to be a technological surplus, it cancels the contract and has the right to some severance. Then the question arises, "Where does he get his severance right?" So the right to severance comes from there that the employer is not fully able to implement the concluded contract of work indefinitely and that party that cancels, the breakup, is somehow obliged to pay the damages. And what we're going to call it, is severance, does help, does damages, that's another question. What's this all about? In order not to get the impression that in these situations one of the contracting parties, which is the employer, commits this bill to pay disproportionately high damages. So we're in the field of justice, in a field that has a basis, and probably the basis for this contract, something that's in something that's a classic of rights, which is bond relations. The draft law, why this solution is not a good solution in Article 158(1) and (2), because it makes a difference compared to the length of the work experience and makes a difference in the work experience of a particular employer and immediately does not satisfy the condition of fairness. We'll prove that on one case. Employer A had problems, he brought in a program, he solved the problem of a technological surplus by moving his employee to employer B. In the employer A, he had 32 years of work experience, and the employer B started working and after two years the employer B comes into the same situation as employer A. Tom, who, according to the government's proposal, only two years should be accounted for. Where's his internship? Why is he making a difference in his job? In order not to be afraid of the privates that this law collects expensive labour to them anyway, since the work here is very expensive because of the expensive state, first of all, then we have to turn it around a little bit to make it clearer. Basically, about 50% of employees are probably working in what is called the public sector, or public matter. They're public enterprises, state authorities, but they don't directly touch this law. Probably 50% of the employees, and perhaps a higher percentage is able to use this, because the state still has some influence on these companies, public enterprises. Let's be fully aware that this, whether it's one-third or one-quarter, has no impact on these privates and these epochal small mid-sized enterprises, development engines and that BK, something is going to doctorate on the issue. It is not there, and what is particularly worrying, which the Government cannot justify why it does not accept this amendment, is the fact that we in the amendment say no less than a third, and then they say it is not accepted because the employer can contract even more, and we change their part where they say one quarter. Well, who can understand what the government is thinking and what is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12053	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Gjorgevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12054	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, right on Article 158. The draft labour law, which the government submitted to the National Assembly for adoption, shows the nature of this law. In the case of this member, it can be said that the solution provided for in Article 158, when it comes to this part of the matter of this bill, is an even worse solution than the existing, existing law, which was passed by the previous Democratic Party government, which we said Serbia's economy had turned black. The SRS parliamentary group, i.e. Milovan Radovanovic, submitted an amendment to Article 158, which should be amended and said: "The employer is obliged to pay the severance of the general act and the labour contract, within the meaning of Article 179 of point 9 of the law. Compensation for each completed year of employment cannot be less than a third of the employee's salary for each completed year of work in a working relationship. "So this Article 158 is one of the most important members of the Labour Bill, and we are asking that this amendment, in an explanation, increases the severance of the employee and equalises for each year of work in a working relationship. The essence of our proposal is to extend the rights of employees. That is the essence of this amendment as well. What is visible and what needs to be pointed out is that this amendment has been accepted by the Committee on the Work of the National Assembly. We expected the government to accept the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group. And the government said, in its explanation, that the amendment was not accepted, for the reasons set out for, too, not accepting the previous amendment to Article 158. I will read this explanation: "This article provides for a minimum right to severance. The employer who has the option may pay more severance payment determined by a general act or contract of work. The decision in the draft law gives greater rights to employees in relation to the applicable law, i.e. it determines a larger amount of severance." Which, of course, is not true. Even a rare representative union has proposed to the government that this member be brought into line, just this way, as foreseen by the amendment of the SRS parliamentary group. It can be said here that the severance is paid to an employee for each year of work in a working relationship, not just for a year of work with an employer who is identified as a surplus, because in practice so far, such a principle is respected in the payment of the severance payment. In practice, there are already cases in privatised companies that offer employees a transition to work in another company, bought by the same owner, on the grounds that they will get a higher salary. In this way, the continuity of work with the same employer and businesses is interrupted, and therefore, within the meaning of Article 158. The bill, radically reduces the amount of severance that the employer is obliged to pay to the employee. This is an obvious example of future avoidance of legal obligations by employers and will lead to employers getting rid of excess employees practically at no cost. The SRS, by submitting this amendment, of course, wanted to protect the rights of employees by extending them through this amendment, and I see no reason why MPs of the National Assembly in the voting day would not accept the amendments of the SRS, or colleagues of Milovan Radovanovic, because this is precisely one of the key members, in this part of the Labour Law, which should be agreed on by all MPs of this assembly, who should solve the issue of employees in the only possible way, which is to extend the rights of employees, namely that it is this Article 158, that in the draft law and the legal solution submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, a proposed poor solution even from the existing law that is still in force.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12055	Thank you. Here's a word from MP Momir Markovic about the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12056	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will ask the President of the Assembly to apologize to the Minister for starting this afternoon's meeting without him. Another time to apologize to him today.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12057	Now, I'm sorry, please, I'll give you back your time, but you really know I have a spondylosis problem and I can't apologize, because it would create additional problems. I can only apologize to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12058	You apologize to him. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing amendments for four or five days now, trying to at least give this bad bill a little courtesy, to get him in line, and to protect the ones for which this law is being passed. In the 2001 thieving privatisation, we mention everything that was good from the economy in Serbia was bought for three euros, for 30 euros, for 300 euros, or 3,000 euros, mostly over a million euros, even that Ju-Es Steele did not pass. The basic cost of customers, future employers, was labour. So, as many workers were to be fired, so that it would come down to some kind of reasonable measure. Today, when we're in a situation where the law that's been passed, you remember, in an absolutely illegal way, that the vote from Thessaloniki, though, is electronics, has gone far, but the MPs are obliged to sit here and vote from here, and that law has mutilated both the economy and the workers, and today we're trying to correct this law at least a little bit, and we've come to Article 158, where again the minister is setting us a coward's egg. I don't know where this was prescribed from, and in the end I don't care, because this law will apply in Serbia. In Article 158, the employer is obliged to pay compensation for each completed year of work with that employer. For example, six months ago, he bought a company, and I know, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, that in many previous privatisations, we see now at the Book, two groups, so everyone supported their, normally, out of love for money, but on the side. Now "Knjiz Milos" is certain to fire several hundred workers. After all, the minister said in an interview before the law came to the Assembly, that this law and other acts in this year would leave about 300,000 people without a job. Now, instead of protecting these people, we leave the employer alone for the time spent with that employer. Is that six months, a year, etc. National MP Milovan Radovanovic submitted an amendment requesting that a third of his personal income, or salary, be paid for each year of work, regardless of his employer. This will keep those who are going to lose their jobs because of this law and because of the policy that is being conducted in the area of economy, in the area of employment, in order to protect them from surviving for at least a year, until they eventually find another job. This, of course, provided that those Bulgarians and Romanians do not engage in Serbia and take those jobs that the minister will eventually open, he said.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12059	The word is from Ambassador Branislav Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have one obligation on behalf of my co-workers from the EPS, speaking of article 158, to give examples of what is going on in the EPS right now. They offered EPS workers a job or severance fee a month or two ago, so that for the first ten years of work, they paid nothing, and for the other ten they set a miserable price for the buying-in of work, so that it is a fraud against this bill that we have before us, which says that for the first ten years one third of the income is paid to the workers. It's obviously one scam to trick a number of workers. Since 2000, we've been telling stories about extra workers in the EPS. I once said that this finding is not true because there are a number of private companies, they wash in a certain way and categorically argues that there are no extra workers, and this restructuring already being carried out in the EPS, Kolubara already feels these problems, we all understand that this is the first step towards privatisation. And it's that one part of the EPS company has already been singled out, such as Kolubara "The Builder", such as the "Universal Colubara". It happened in the Civilian Colubara that no worker wanted to sign the breakup agreement, the restoration contract. So, the workers felt it was a kind of scam because they didn't give them any guarantee that they could have decent profits, they didn't give any guarantees, and during that time there were two privates, who had already entered with them in business co-operation and already certain borrowings there, which means that these privates had already put their paws to buy out the company, so these people would one day be on the street without employment, without any social program. These same workers invited me to this assembly that they organized. However, gentlemen who are now in power, the directors, simply did not dare, banned my presence because they knew that I was a member of the Privatisation Committee and that I would bring many things to light. So what I'm saying is that Mr. Minister who calls a large number of EPS workers, that extra worker, the parasites. He says we have a large number of parasites in the EPS. It's a disgrace from Mr. Minister, especially considering that he was the leader of the union, as well as the previous Mickey Polutka, as they called him. These are people who were more involved in private business than in protecting workers' interests. I also appeal to the union, speaking of this Article 155, that the employer should not make his own programme of further restructuring, but that union representatives must participate. Furthermore, all future restructurings that are being prepared in Serbia will surely face major problems, so once again, I want to appeal to all trade unions to take full part in the establishment of the law itself, to say their word. They submitted a number of amendments and found their place to better protect workers' interests.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12061	The People's Messenger Vojislav Milajić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12062	The proposal for this law in Article 158 regulates the problem of extra employees and the severances that these employees need to obtain. This amendment has tried to address the shortcomings in this bill. In his explanation of the bill, the Proposer called for a Council of Europe Directive that regulates the problem of collective dismissal. However, they did not implement the directive until the end, they did not apply it properly. It is much more favourable for the situation of collective layoffs, as they call it, or excess employees who are fired for restructuring businesses, businesses, because of technological innovations or economic changes that arise in the company itself. The procedure under that directive is next. An employer who wants to fire extra employees is obliged to notify the competent ministry and the representative union. Upon receipt of that notice, the representative union is obliged to contact the competent ministry and have 30 days to find a solution for the number of people who are jobless, where the collective layoff institute is applied. The Institute of collective layoffs is prescribed by the directive and they predict three variants. The first version includes the dismissal of 10 and more workers in enterprises with 20 to 100 employees. The second variant is 10% of fired workers in enterprises with 100 to 300 employees and the third is when more than 30 employees in enterprises with more than 300 employees are fired. Our concept provides for a program that is required by the employer to make. This program is not binding on anyone, and it does not solve the problem. It is delivered to the union and the national employment organisation. They give their opinion, suggestions and plans on how to solve the problem, send an answer to the employer. The employer, upon receipt of the opinion and proposal, is obliged to respond to the representative union and the national employment organisation, and there is the end of the story. Then there's the severances. The concept envisioned by the directive obliges the fact that the ministry is responsible, obliges the state to try to solve the problem first. The draft law provides that the surplus employees of collective layoffs are the situation to be resolved within 30 days when certain reasons arise for collective layoffs. The Directive provides for a reverse situation. They prohibit the employer from committing collective layoffs within at least 30 days, which means that the employer can extend the deadline. Why is it so done? It was done for a simple reason to give the state and the representative union time to find a solution for people who are jobless. It's not the essence of the issue of severance. None of the employees want severances. What can they do with those severances? They can survive a few months, they can't do anything else. Each employee is intended to keep his job or, if he cannot keep it, to get another suitable job with which he can support himself and members of his family. The point is to solve the problem of how to hire these people who at that time and in this employer represent a surplus of labour, not a level of severance, which is extremely miserable and which can meet the needs of maybe a few months. The government's appeal to the directives laid down by the Council of the European Union, which provide some basis and minimum rights and whose signatories are obliged to respect and install this minimum in their national legislation, does not prevent national legislation from extending those rights. They're the ones who protect extra employees, and especially in collective layoffs, they can expand... (President:Time. )......................................................................................................... and I think that our proposal for a law that we are discussing today has neither tried to extend that scope of law, but has narrowed it down to the least possible extent and went under the directive of the Council of the European Union and the recommendations of the IOR.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12063	Thank you. Please, MP Nemanja Sarovic, following the same amendment. I warned Mr. Karaicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a growing rush on the SRS parliamentary group, but it's hardly going to help you fix your image. Amendment to Article 158. The draft labour law on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group was submitted by Mr. Milovan Radovanovic, and this amendment provides for the severance to be paid in equal amount regardless of the years of work, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is envisaged that the severance per year of the employment period cannot be less than one-third of the employee's earnings. It is interesting for this member of the law that the dissatisfaction with the proposal given in the law has already been expressed by parliamentary groups that certainly have a majority in the Assembly, regardless of their coalition, and those in the opposition and those who make up the ruling majority have expressed their dissatisfaction and disagreement with such a formulation in the law. Unfortunately, there is no minister here, so the question is how could she possibly come to the agenda of the Assembly's session of such a formulation? It will also be interesting in the voting day to see if all you've been saying so far was just an empty story or if you're really going to stand behind those views and vote that this and this proposal of a member of the 158th change. Different modalities have been tried by parliamentary groups with their amendments to amend this member, but the bottom line is that everyone agrees that it should be changed. In this regard, I think it would be best to accept, that is, the most acceptable for all parliamentary groups, the amendment of the SRS, because it solves the basic problem that has been around equalisation for each year of work, which exists with us, and on the other hand, there is no increase in the amount of severance, so that this could again be acceptable for both the government and the other parliamentary groups. Interestingly, it would be interesting to hear from the minister why he shares his employees, i.e. the severances according to years of work experience, and how it is possible that those who have 20 or 25 years of employment should receive less severance than those who have up to 10 years of employment. The minister seems to have forgotten that the biggest problem is for those people who have 50 years of life and 20 years of work and who, when they lose their jobs, with these severances that they get, and who can't start some stable business, like you said, to solve their existence permanently, is already happening the opposite, and most of these people are being used to afford something they couldn't last years, and to possibly buy something from a household machine and to make the necessary repairs, and in a few months, they're both out of work and no severance. It's amazing that no one thought of these people, but that the goal was to cut the severances for those who have years of employment. I think you should think again about the amendment to the SRS, because I repeat, for everything is acceptable, and in this way a little bit, at least, improve the text of the labour law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12065	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The 179th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Brance Stojanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Brance Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12066	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are somehow bringing an end, although we are far from done, to discuss amendments to the labour law. On behalf of the SPS, Mr. Toma Busetic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 179 of the labour law that defines, namely, the resignation of the employer. I don't want to take up your time to read the whole article 179. Basically, all of these nine points that stand here, we at the SPS think they're work-related injuries and that the employer can quit. What we advocate in the SPS, and this is what we have proposed with this amendment, is that a commission be formed on a proposal from the employer, which, respecting the possible reasons for those who stand in Article 179 to determine the working ability and behaviour of the workers, will eventually be fired. We think this is important. I have several examples from practice, and I have repeatedly mentioned, both yesterday and today, and in a positive context, U.S. "Steel," and this time what led me to make such an amendment is that we have cases where workers in that company were getting and getting fired, without any commission considering an objective state of affairs that caused the breach of labour obligations. We have a situation where the worker informed the alleged that not all the conditions of the HTZ Regulation were met, and that the next day he was fired because he was injured on jobs and on work assignments where the HTZ Rules of Procedure imposed appropriate equipment and appropriate conditions. So, in the future, there would be no situation like this, and I'm sure there are a lot of examples of this kind of nature in privatised companies, and we're also proposing to the ministry and to all the MPs that it is necessary for the employer to form a commission that will in his name consider all the circumstances related to these nine points under Article 179, and only on that basis, eventually, the worker gets fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12067	Anybody else answer for a word? A colleague of Tom Bushetic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12068	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for this law is certainly better than the applicable law, if for nothing, because we have great improvements regarding paid leave, annual vacations and better protection of workers when it comes to the protection of disabled workers. There is no full protection, but certainly this bill is better than the applicable law. What doesn't qualify him to be a law on our part, first of all, is the inability to apply the collective contract directly and that the government will not participate in the conclusion of the contract. It is amazing that there are certain members in this law who offer the same solutions or even worse solutions than in the applicable labour law. That's exactly the case with Article 179, which speaks of the employer's resignation. Nothing has changed here, so to speak. All those conditions laid down by the applicable law are also recorded in this law, only that point 1) and point 2) are merged and we now have the employer’s resignation if the employee does not achieve the results of the work, or if it does not show the necessary knowledge. Our proposal is, given that the results of the work and the necessary knowledge are assessed by the employer and that this can be quite subjective, that the previous opinion is given by a certain commission. Our proposal is for the commission to be one joint body, where members will propose both employers and union representatives. We have been particularly aware of the situation here that part of the privatisation has been completed in Serbia, that most often new owners of these private enterprises are people of suspicious knowledge, quality, and school supplies. In order not to get into a situation where the new owner assesses the results of the work or knowledge of the employee, and he has a primary school, a high school, we went with this proposal that in this commission and this joint body, which gives an opinion on the work result of the employee and his knowledge, must be people who have at least the same expertise as the employees whose results are being evaluated. I think this amendment of ours is good. When we talk about this law, the previous government, and this government, too, is very often talking and wanting to look up to the West. If we go through these solutions, they are in the West and how employees are protected. There are, first of all, extremely strong unions. If the employer wants to fire the employee and has no foothold, trade unions are often able to quickly protect the employee. They extract numerous irregularities from the employer, so he finds it very difficult to quit his employee. Unfortunately, we only have one union, which is the Independent Union, which is representative and has over 550,000 members. I don't know what the range of that union is, is it possible for it to do what the trade unions in the West are doing? And when it comes to these other unions, the Independence Union has a lot of honest and nice people inside, but leadership is corrupt, bought. The president of that union is the chairman of the National Service Management Board. The workers have nothing to expect from that union in terms of some kind of protection. This third union, by the way, doesn't exist, it's just on paper. I think this amendment of ours is good and you'll accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12069	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Toma Busetic and Zivodarka Dacin have jointly tabled an amendment suggesting that a new member of 179a be added after article 179a. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yes, MP of the Beast Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12070	Dear Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, counterpart Toma Busetic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 179 by proposing adding a new member of 179a. Before I give an explanation for this amendment, I would say that I am truly wrong as a MP, because the impression is that Minister Lalovic is angry with us Members of Parliament and simply does not want to comment on any amendments and to explain why some of them do not accept. I understand that Minister Lalovic is very difficult, because he is the only minister who is both a MP and one between us. If he could stay here more often as a National MP, then he could assess and assess how many MP groups really have tabled amendments that they really wanted to improve that desperate law from the previous term of 2001, while DOS was in power, and that nobody really meant anything wrong. I would even say that we were trying to protect in some way, first of all, the workers, because our SPS must be the ones in the first place, but I have to say that it seems to us that certain amendments were both correct and when it comes to employers. This member we're proposing is, in fact, talking about that no law can be ideal. We know that, but that's why we in the SPS parliamentary group said that this is not a good law for workers either, but it is better than the one in the previous term, in force from 2001 to 2005, until this and this law is passed. The fact is that in this so bad, criticised DOS law, this member was better regulated. What's this about? In the previous, still valid law, it is foreseen that in the event of employers' resignation due to unfulfilled work results, insufficient knowledge and ability, which is determined by the employer himself, the employee received a severance from one to two and a half earnings, depending on the length of the internship. It exists in the current law. This proposed law does not foresee it. It's not a question of that. It's a controversial fact that there's no arbitration here, that an employer doesn't like it for any reason, can say that he no longer achieves the results of his work. One question arises – if someone worked in a particular organisation with an employer for 10, 20 years or more, what is now about to force a man who does not show the results of work, or is no longer professional enough for that work, and for 10 or 20 years he has been professional enough to do the job. With this amendment, we wanted in some way to create some kind of social program and for these people, because no one can convince us that someone who has worked for so long, has done things for themselves, and has brought well-being to their company where he is employed, that after 10 or 20 years he no longer satisfies. It is an amendment that we have submitted in our sincere desire not to allow any member from the previous, today still current, labour law to be better than the one proposed by the current minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12071	Thank you. National MP Tom Bushetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12072	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my earlier presentation, I said that this law, which is essentially a little better than the applicable law, has solutions that are worse than the applicable law. Now we're witnessing this one solution that's burning as well. Even the applicable law envisioned severance fees, cancellation fees based on the results of the work or the lack of knowledge of the employees. Those severances were minimal, from one to two and a half wages, and here we just have nothing. It is true, if the minister were here he would say – now the resignation is not the same, there is a warning, there is a union opinion, there is a deadline. Of course, nothing will prevent the employer from quitting, but when we talk about this solution, in our amendment, we have provided that when the employer fires the employee based on the results of the work, based on allegedly insufficient knowledge, he must pay him a certain severance fee, or cash compensation, and it runs from one to four salaries, depending on the length of the employee's employment. What is important, perhaps the Minister will come at the end of the work, this solution also provides for Convention No 158, where it is said – that the severance is paid to all workers who have been fired for any reason other than a serious violation of the labour obligation, or in cases where employees can exercise those rights through the national service, with us regarding the PIO, if that right can be realised otherwise. Even this convention foresees – if the results of the work are allegedly insufficient knowledge, that the employer is obliged to pay certain severances. On the other hand, when we talk about these conditions, about insufficient work results, about lack of knowledge, it's quite subjective. Given that we now and in this law, and before, we have had a traineeship, where each employee is proven, learns a certain substance, we have a trial work, all these institutes exist, now we come into a situation that the employer can quit at any time based on the results of the work, or based on established incompetence or lack of knowledge. If we're making a parallel with Western countries again, it's all clear there, it's hard to quit, if it's about the cancellations of a larger number of workers or employees, that larger number for France is 100 workers, these cancellations must be declared by the government. There are different kinds of protections in the West. We've got a so-called. real protection, where the employer is obliged to return the worker to work, or compulsory protection, where he returns him to work or pays high fines. It's all regulated in the right way. This law only goes in the direction of large employers' rights, and employers, at least in our area, show great will. This proposal is a minimal step in this direction, to allow those people who are out of work to pay minimum cash.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12073	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? Here you are, MP Nikola Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12074	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of 179 are nothing more than a slightly reformed member of the 101st current, existing law. All stories in the context of the proposal of this text, that this is better compared to earlier solutions, and in the context of Article 188, that the employer is obliged by written means to warn the person who has been fired, that was the case in the previous law, nothing is new except that five-day period, that the employee to whom the warning applies may object to the employer. I don't know what that's about. The stories of how revolutionary achievement is, the better it is, the better the rights are protected, they have no basis. It was an opportunity to possibly intervene in Articles 179, 180 to 183 in terms of the protection of disabled workers. Since this has not been done in these three members, in Article 101 of the proposed text of the law, disabled workers as a category are not protected by anything. It's just an empty story. The employer must provide an adequate job to the disabled with the remaining work capacity. One who knows the rules means that disabled work has to work full-time, achieve average work results without jeopardizing his health condition. The employer says – I don’t have a job like that, and at the opportunity of setting out the lists of workers whose work has stopped the need, there will certainly be people with disabilities. So far, I have not seen a single provision of this proposal that these disabled workers are protected, even on condition that they have become disabled workers in that employer who is now solving their problem. See paragraph 1 - an employer may cancel a working contract if there are reasonable reasons, and then these three reasons are indicated. It's the worst thing to do is to stop the need for an employee. When an employer is released from excess staff, he will surely choose to work with healthy, qualified, valuable, motivated by work, and will not have any disabled workers who have the remaining work capacity. Normally, this is the second problem, in a competition where there are a large number of jobseekers, where national employment services are with a large number of registered unemployed workers, then the employer is able to offer a lower labour price. This member doesn't treat that part of the problem. I speak here because of those MPs who claim, because of the truth, that this text of the proposal is better than the existing one and that it is something much more significant, and when it says that disabled workers are protected, I claim that it is not true. For the sake of truth, disabled workers, regardless of where employers have become disabled workers, have no protection under any current current law, nor according to this text of the proposal, unless intervened anywhere, in certain provisions, and so far it has not been done. It's just the truth that I came out to say it and it bothers me like a man in practice, who's been solving this problem for years, that someone doesn't even read the text of the law, or he doesn't understand it, and he's talking about how much better it is, more revolutionary than the existing law, and the essence is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12075	The word is made by MP Branislav Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12076	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 179 is truly the most important member of this law. And why is that? Because it's being directly spoken here in which way workers should be protected from being fired. Here, of all of these nine positions, there is only one missing, which was in force in law, it is the political functioning of workers at work, and it was one of the items in which the employer can cancel the worker. With this proposal, this article 179, which is most important in this bill, we are not making any protection for the worker. And why is that? If we look at point 1), if the employee does not achieve the results of the work, i.e. there is no need for knowledge, should there be any opinion, because the worker who works for five or 10 years at the workplace, normally that all these years continue to be professionally satisfied in the same job. However, if the job is of a physical nature, if it is physically weakened, it needs to be protected even more as a disabled person. Also, point 7) if an employee refuses to close an annex contract; I was just saying that the workers of the Colubare, so, "Buildwinar," no one signed the contract annex; and why: because they understood the fraud, and you can now say they were fired from work, and it's about 500 to 600 workers, which is about 400 families. So I repeat that this article 179 is absolutely nothing better done than it was before, and it is most important in this law. Please really support this amendment to Article 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12077	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, I wanted to take this opportunity since this member, as you say, is most important for the protection of workers and to the SRS gentlemen and gentlemen of the SPS, who are in power in Gornji Milanovac, I ask them to influence the director of the public enterprise to return to the work of the pregnant and the foster mother. So, she's being exorcised in haste by one modest systematization, by a woman waiting for a third child and one foster parent who's the only technologist in the company. I'm also at your disposal to check this information. I call upon the gentlemen of the SRS and the SPS to make such an effort and to get those I mentioned, and I will deliver your names back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12079	Mr. Djurovic, I ask you to deliver names, not to use this pay phone, but to discuss this amendment. Please, I took the word. Are you after the amendment? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, this isn't the market, this is the Assembly, Mrs. Radeta explained it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12080	I'm glad Mr. Djurovic came out for this pay phone. Apparently, some people from the DSS, who held power for four years in Gornji Milanovac, have not yet been angry that they have lost that power by the will of the people. What Mr. Djurovic has stated is a small matter in relation to the entire canon of accusations and qualifications that we experience day and day in our municipality. It's absolutely incorrect what he put out that a pregnant woman, a foster mother, was fired, that's not true. I've heard about this story that went past our charter, I've checked with the Director General of the Public Communal Company, and it's absolutely not true. The fact is that six or seven workers were declared a technological surplus, but it had to be done because the previous government received 50 and some workers and it practically prevented the normal functioning of the company... (President): Please, sir... )......................................................................................................... and so much receiving workers had to be paid through an enormous increase in the price of utility services, and we absolutely don't want to go over the back of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12081	Of course, but I also asked Djurovic's previous speaker and he gave up, and don't give up on my replica, we're talking about amendments to the labour law. Please exchange accurate information on what is happening in Milanovac, it is not correct, please. Please, according to the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12082	Mr. Chairman, I noticed that you are very indisposed today in the afternoon part of the session. You've interfered with something that's a matter of MPs in the debate in particular. I must say that you are not very careful to follow what is on the agenda, or what amendment is on the agenda and what MPs can speak about these amendments. First of all, you're colleagues from the DSS...
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12083	Would you be so kind as to tell me what member's injury?
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12084	From the first to the last member, you've hurt everyone, because you're like the chairman to respect the Rules of Procedure, because you're the first among the equals, and to use only the rights you have. So, is it because of fatigue, fatigue, but whatever you want, deconcentration, that you started with MPs from the presidency, when they ask for a word, to say -- come on, come on, come on, come on, come out for a pay phone, like this is some optional forum, not the most legislative body. My colleagues from the DSS, I speak to you in principle as a Serbian radical, but also as someone who advocates the democratic rights of the people's representatives, that he cannot speak of what is not on the agenda, and he tried this untruth he brought out of the Upper Milanite to bind to this member of the law, or amendment. So that's the principle, regardless of what a colleague from another party is. Then when Dr. Nedeljkovic, recognising the untruth that his colleague made for us, came out, since you did not give him the right to the replica, and you know that the SRS official and that we were participants in the coalition government in Gornji Milanovac, could use the replica, you, in spite of being completely reluctant, gave him the same explanation for the amendment and then interrupted him in half a sentence. It is there that you are not the chairman and president of the Assembly as you once want to introduce yourself to the public: that you are being tolerated, that you are a man who can understand the situation that MPs are persuading themselves through dialogue with the Assembly, or that they are making arguments, but at the very least incorrectly, in violation of this Rules of Procedure, you are denying the right to tell the Members what is important to them and what is the problem from their midst when they are talking about labour law. If you had been in the position of the chairman during the debate in detail in continuity, and the very important law is on the agenda, as the President of the Assembly, and very often you have given it to one or the other or third colleagues, you would understand that the essence of this presentation and the presentation of individual examples from the middle of where MPs come from is very important for the ruling furniture, especially the minister, to understand our argument in support of each of the amendments' individual reasoning. Therefore, make sure, even if the farce works, that you are tolerable and correct until 6:00 p.m. as long as this afternoon's session takes place.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12085	Thank you. I am sorry, Ms. Jovanovic, but I do not have the right to be tolerated but to respect the Rules of Procedure, explicitly Article 99, which says - the speaker can only speak about the issue on the agenda, and in the second position - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except for the president of the National Assembly in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. Please be kind enough to explain, because I am obliged to explain, which is why I asked Mr. Djurovic, who answered about the amendment, after a minute and after the presentation, to stop, because he did not talk about the amendment. I really don't know who's in Gornji Milanovac in the coalition, so I asked him not to speak, referring to the amendment, about some issue that was bothering him, and he was kind and he accepted it. Then came Mr. Nedeljkovic. On my question -- whether about the amendment, he said -- no, but the replica, so I said -- come on, come on, come on, then on the replica. So I didn't invite him that way -- come on, let's just -- let's accept the replica. And so Mr. Nedeljkovic was correct, when I warned that I had asked the previous speaker to stick to exactly what was being discussed here for days, which is a very important law on work, and he accepted it and then ended his presentation, of course, and left the pay phone. I thank you both. There was no reason for intervention, and in the future, I will try to do what I do, and that is to work on the Rules of Procedure, but I thank all those who are concerned about my occasional independence. Anyone else want a word? You're not satisfied. [[Natasa Jovanovic, from the bench: I am not satisfied with your answer.]] We will have to, thank you then, it means that in the day of the vote we will have to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, from Articles 1 to 236, as requested by Miss Jovanovic. Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) Ljiljana Nestorović submitted to Article 182 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the MP Ljiljana Nestorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12086	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, in Article 182 of the proposed law, reads: - if he cancels the employment contract in the case of this law, which is in Article 179, point 9), the employer cannot hire another person on the same jobs within six months of the day of his employment. If, before the deadline set out in Article 1 expires, before the six-month deadline expires, the need to carry out the same tasks arises, the advantage in the conclusion of the labour contract shall be the employee to whom the employment relationship has ceased. The amendment I have proposed concerns the increase of this deadline that this member of the law has been given to be six months. We of the Social Democratic Party propose that this be a year-long deadline, because it is illogical to fire a man if the situation changes to six months, and each planning, taking into account a business plan, or any kind of business plan, is done for a year. You never work for six months. And now, if you have a man who's 30 years old and for six months, those months where he's gonna be unnecessary, he should be fired, and as the law allows, let's say that his working hours are reduced to two hours a day in that period while there's no need for his work, in the place where he's previously worked. So once again, we suggest that for these reasons, six months change in a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12087	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Toma Busetic and Dragan M. Jovanovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's Messenger, Tom Bushetic. I'm sorry, I'm a little indisposed, so I didn't get it right away, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12088	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, what is said in this article? If he cancels the employment contract in the case referred to in point (9) of Article 179 of this Act, which means technological changes, organisational changes, technical, employer cannot hire another person on the same jobs within six months of the day of termination of the employment relationship. We have proposed to establish the employer's obligation that in the event of the dismissal of workers due to technological, economic, organisational or technical changes to the same workplace he cannot hire another person within a year. This prevents possible abuse of the layoff of workers whose work has in fact not stopped the need. We believe that this is exactly the way to reduce the possibility of abuse by employers. If the employer knows he won't be able to receive a new employee in the next year, he'll find it difficult to decide on a move to make mass layoffs based on technological changes, organizational, technical, economic, whatever you want. Why have we submitted this amendment? We didn't think much of private entrepreneurs. They don't respect anything. They don't have to decide in some special way how technological changes are made, organizational ones. Here, above all, we thought of local self-government, public enterprises, public services, public institutions. So, for example, on October 5th, according to our records, 39,812 people were fired overnight, all allegedly due to technological changes, economic, organisational etc. At the same time in the government, 293, only because of membership in the SPS or sympathy, and employed new 5,000. In order to prevent this, these mass layoffs, we believe that this is a good solution and, with a sharp criminal policy, prevents abuse in some future period, although we are deeply convinced that such a situation, as after October 5th, with such mass layoffs, will not be repeated. At least that's what we hope for.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12089	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 186 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Please, there is a word from the People's MP Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12090	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, MPs, the Democratic Party considers it necessary to amend the provision of Article 186, in which the employer is obliged to pay all outstanding earnings, wages and other income that the employee has made until the day of termination of the employment relationship in accordance with the general act and contract of employment. We think that, in most cases, this will not be possible and that it would be necessary for the legislator to adopt this amendment, in which we propose that the employer's obligation be restructured and that he, which is in Article 186, must pay the employee no later than 30 days from the end of the working relationship. This is the period during which the employer could calculate all the commitments made during the working relationship, which the worker acquired, and to make payment within that appropriate period. Because it is in fact very difficult to expect that the employer can calculate, on the day of termination of the employment relationship, all the obligations that the employee has earned on the basis of a working relationship, working with him, so we suggest that both the minister and MPs consider this, so that there is no adoption of provisions that are practically not enforceable in the real application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12091	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 188 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Here's a word from the People's MP, Snježana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12092	On Article 188, the amendment of the Democratic Party, to Article 2, which says, "The employer may, with the agreement of the ministry, cancel the contract on the work of a representative of the members' staff, if he refuses the job offered within the meaning of Article 171(1) of this Law. "The Democratic Party believes that in this position it is necessary to delete "with the consent of the ministry". Everything else should remain as I read it, because we believe that if the employee's representative does not act in accordance with the law, the general act and the employer's employment contract can cancel his employment contract, so there is no justification for the ministry's consent. The law provides for bodies that appreciate the legality of the working relationship procedure, so there is no need for the ministry's participation in this matter, so I would also suggest that the National Assembly consider this amendment and support the proposed amendment of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12093	Does anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 196 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Miroslav Markicevic and Dragan S. Jovanovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, the fight and the social issue have adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The amendment with correction was submitted to article 197 by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Dragan S. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12094	Dear fellow Members of the People, you can see that the Committee has accepted the amendment to Article 197. It's very interesting why the government didn't accept it, since I think it's a technical amendment. In fact, Article 197 treats the matter of occasional and seasonal affairs and says the employer can conclude a contract with a person who is a member of a youth or student cooperative and who is not over 30 years old. The SPS wishes, with its amendment, not to challenge the basic principle of this article, but to improve it by adding in its position 2 that in order to carry out temporary and occasional jobs in agriculture and forestry, an employer can engage through a youth cooperative and an unemployed person over 30 years of age. The government, refuting this amendment, said in its explanation that such employment can be done through the National Employment Service. In an explanation, it would only be good to say a few things. Agriculture and forestry are characteristic of the fact that their personality is precisely these jobs that are related to seasonal and occasional jobs, meaning jobs of such character, and since we know that this is very often about jobs that in a short period of time require a large number of people, these are periodical jobs of harvesting, harvesting, shaming, etc. It is very often about jobs that are not very attractive for young labour, and given that in recent years we have received quite a number of unemployed people over 30 years of age, we believe that such an amendment would solve certain problems. The engagement of this workforce through the National Employment Service has some problems. In situations where we would hire, say, a few hundred people in a few days, which is not strange in seasonal work, then in that period the employer has to with each individual to conclude work contracts. They should register and log out of the Pension and Social Insurance Fund, etc. The amendment, which we have proposed, this solves in a rather simple and acceptable way which has also shown its quality in practice so far. I think it would be quite logical for the government to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12095	The word has a folk ambassador, Momcilo Duvnjak.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12096	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the amendment submitted by Mr Dragan Jovanovic should be accepted. With this member, the government eliminates the work of young and unemployed people who have completed 30 years of their lives so that they can work on temporary and occasional jobs through student and youth cooperatives. The discrimination of young people, as suggested here, is contrary to all international conventions and is not in line with student and youth cooperatives. I wonder why a young man who has not found employment in the profession, and most often it is about young people who have formed a family in the age of 30 and a few years, cannot work through a cooperative. These are short - term jobs and are often not related to their professions. Why this population of youths is practically banned from doing these jobs and earning some money for their underage children. The employer who breaks this member can pay a fine of up to a million dinars. A man with common sense would not be able to propose such a solution, or ban, discrimination. I don't understand the suggestion. Instead of giving these young people, who will and must do any ad hoc work outside the profession, we have made it easier through taxes and contributions, this law prohibits them from working and threatens employers with high penalties. In almost all Western countries, which you are reportedly approaching, these jobs are burdened with taxes of only 20%, and you have burdened work through youth cooperatives with 65%, while introducing various bans and discrimination for young people, and you punish employers if those bans violate them. This member also obliges the employer to sign a labour contract with each member of the cooperative. This provision is contrary to the provisions of the Cooperative Act, under which a member of the cooperative represents and represents a cooperative. Can you imagine how much paper should be spent if each member should have a contract for each job that takes a most frequent day, two or a few days. This proposal is also pointless for both the employer and the member of the cooperative, especially for jobs in agriculture, where people work in groups that share the impact of work and where labour interruptions are common due to the needs of work and weather conditions, that is, an accident. According to the Pension Insurance Act, the previous government has obliged youth cooperatives to report and log out into the PIO every job, even if it lasts for one day. It is possible to imagine which administration is present with cooperatives and pension funds, and the cooperative could keep records and once a year hand over all the data to the PIO Fund. Now you want to introduce contracts to them for every small business and that is signed by every member of the cooperative in particular. Instead of making it easier to do these jobs, you introduce a new administration and collect the labour price. I'm sure you don't understand why you're doing this. When mandatory pension insurance was introduced two years ago for working through youth and student cooperatives by 50%, work through cooperatives was reduced and increased to black. That's what the previous Dossage Authority did, which we've replaced for God's sake. Over 50% of youth cooperatives have stopped working on your solution. In this law, you want to destroy the other 100 youth cooperatives. I ask you to stop destroying everything that is worth in this Serbia, but to help develop with a smart law. If you don't know it, and you don't know it, get out of the way, we radicals know how to do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12097	Thank you, Mr. Duvnjak. Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12098	The DS considers that Article 199. The bill should be deleted for the simple reason that a representation or mediation contract is simply not a question that should be subject to the regulation of this law. The law on bond relations regulates this matter, so we find it absolutely unnecessary for this provision to stand in the labour law in this kind of text. There is no need for different laws in the single legal system to regulate the same questions, so we propose that both the Minister and the MPs of the National Assembly accept the DS amendment to Article 199 and that it be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12099	Anyone else by the same amendment? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Dusan Mrvos and Vojislav Milajic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dusan Mrvos. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will read just as Article 206 reads: "Employed approaches to the union by signing accession. The employer shall be obliged to refuse the amount of earnings on the basis of his written statement and to pay that amount to the relevant trade union account to the employee who is a member of the trade union. "It's quite right that this amount should go to the union's expense, I just think, so the amendment is a technical matter, not based on a written statement but on an accession. The trade unions have been proving their representativeness lately, bringing accessions, signing accessions, establishing representativeness, and the job has been completed, to someone's satisfaction, and to someone's dissatisfaction. By signing the accession, each person accepts practically the union statute. In the union statute, it is defined that there is a union membership in a certain amount, and I believe, as well as the NS-SP parliamentary group, that it is a technical matter and that, without any problems, it can be accepted, instead of a written statement, that the employer automatically rejects the membership fee and pays it to the union's account.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12101	Here you go, Mr. Milajić, and then Mr. Rajko Baralic came forward after the same amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12102	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill provides for the suspension of earnings for paying the union membership fee by giving an employee a written statement on whether or not he is denied union membership. Since trade unions have accessions, whose names and names are employed, the home number, the address, the name of the employer with whom they work, the name of the union organisation to which they approach, the declaration of acceptance of the statutes, means that the employee has accepted the statute and the union organisation's programme, as well as its personal signature, are quite sufficient elements on the basis of which the employer is obliged to refuse trade union membership and to transfer funds to an appropriate trade union organisation account. All employees joining a particular union organization are familiar with the programme and trade union statutes. All trade unions in their statutes provide for the obligation to pay membership fees, so I see no reason why employees would have to sign special statements giving the employer an order to transfer funds. Also, in Article 123. The proposal for this law provides for three ways of suspending employees' earnings by the employer: one by force of the law, the other by a court decision and the third by a statement of the employee himself, means that it is being suspended from the part of the earnings. The accession itself, filling out the union accession and joining the union at the same time also means agreeing to pay membership fees to a particular union. Given that the re-integration and verification of union representativeness were almost done, and that trade unions had to re-engage to determine the exact number of union representatives, these additional statements would only make business more complicated, and both trade unions and employees and employers alike. We think that the amendment is fully in place, that it is quite enough to join the union as the basis for suspending membership and transferring funds to the union to which the employee has joined. I think this amendment should be accepted because it simplifies the whole membership fee procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12103	Here you go, Mr. Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12104	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Independent Union, the SPS will support this amendment that colleagues Mrvos and Milajic have submitted to 206 members of the labour law. If that didn't happen, it would be the revenge of small unions against the only major representative union in Serbia. Therefore, an act of accession to a union defined the worker as accepting the trade union's statutes and therefore defined that he was granted a certain percentage of the membership fee from the monthly earnings on the payroll. If that didn't happen, if the unions, which proved their representativeness a few months ago, now made them do it all over again, we'd have major technical problems. In addition, we might have a number of workers who are falsely involved in the representativeness of the union. So if they've already declared themselves, then they need to know that it involves certain obligations, not just certain rights. In this way, we would allow unions to function normally and not choke them with technical issues, and for employees it is the same. They already agreed to do it once. I simply ask on behalf of a union that does a delicate job, which is somewhere between the state and the workers, and on behalf of the workers, to allow it to work more efficiently and better. I would ask Mr. Minister if he could accept this amendment. I want to say once again, the SPS will support this amendment in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12105	The amendment was submitted by MP Leila Ruzdic-Trifunovic to Article 214. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 214 of the amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Snezana Lakicevic-Stojačić.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12106	And in principle, in the debate, we have said that we believe that the provision of Article 214 is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, because this member is to some extent limited by the organisation of trade unions, by making a commitment that at least 10 employees in one or more employers can form a union. There's neither a minimum nor a maximum of employees who can start a union. The freedom of association is guaranteed by constitutional principles and we do not feel that it is necessary through this regulation to make an imperative commitment that at least 10 employees can do so. After all, we think that this principle of freedom of organization, in some ways, has been destroyed by the IOR Convention on trade union freedoms and the protection of trade union rights. Despite objections to excessive jurisdiction, low censorship, etc. in the area of union organisations, however, we believe that the legislator should make sure that all provisions in the law are in line with the Constitution, and since we believe that this provision is not in line with the Constitution, we propose that the amendment be adopted and that Article 214 is amended and that it reads: "The union, within the meaning of Article 6 of this Law, can be established in accordance with the general act of the trade union".
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12107	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? No, I don't. ) National MP Goran Jaksic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 227a be added after article 227a. The government didn't accept the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs has adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. The word is made by MP Goran Jaksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12108	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, I will read what this proposal reads in the amendment I have made. So, a member is added, which says, "Employers who made the decision to redistribute working hours for 2005, will organise working hours according to that decision." Let me remind you that a member of the 57th bill has been designated as an employer to redistribute working hours during the calendar year, for the longest period of six months. So, within a six-month period, the employer can reduce, or increase the length of working time of the employee, but during that period, the average duration may be in accordance with the law. I believe that you will agree that every bill should, among other things, meet two basic postulates, which is that, as a bill of law, it will benefit all citizens or certain actions that it regulates, while at the same time that the law is not harmful to anyone. When it comes to these two attitudes, I think we agree that they have to be accepted and this law is about something that is basic. If this amendment were to remain unacceptable by the Assembly, we would have a situation to cause certain damage. This law, as we know, is not new in our legislative practice, but there is a Labour Act that otherwise regulated matter redistribution of working time. The current law, which is currently in force, regulates the redistribution of working hours so that the employer can redistribute working hours throughout the calendar year, increase or reduce the duration of working hours, but, on average, in the calendar year, the duration of working hours must comply with the law. We now have a situation that began in 2005, that we also have serious companies in this country that, based on the current Labour Act, have re-scheduled their working hours, and according to certain business agreements, contracts and other types of obligations with business partners. If we now amend the law and put this provision into effect on the date of entry into force of the law, these business contracts and obligations that our companies have would be challenged. Since we have a situation, I repeat once again, that there are serious companies that have made very serious arrangements with their business partners and employ a large number of workers, thus the condition that I just said, in principle, that the law should not be done, would not be fulfilled. I believe that since the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, without any vote against, we will accept this amendment, in line with these principles, as the Assembly, to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12109	Anyone else want to talk about this amendment? Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12110	Let me just say that the government accepts this amendment brought out by MP Goran Jaksic, where a new member of the 227a is added.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12111	That's when the amendment became an integral part of the law. Members of the 243rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs have not adopted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers this amendment legally possible. Does anyone want a word? National MP Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12112	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Dr. Zarko Obradovic and I have submitted an amendment to Article 243. It's a draft labour law. To remind me, Article 243 provides for a general collective agreement to be concluded by a representative association of employers and a representative union established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. With the amendment, we propose that the third participant in the general collective agreement be the Serbian government. Thus, the member reads: "The general collective agreement is concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a representative association of employers and a representative union established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. "First, the government has jurisdiction, but must assume responsibility for ensuring economic, social, monetary and other assumptions from its jurisdiction, so that the overall system of collective bargaining in Serbia functions smoothly in the interests of both capital and employees. The tripartite social dialogue, which was institutionalised by the Law on the Social and Economic Council, would, in fact, be surrounded by the conclusion of a three-party general collective agreement, as a kind of social convention of all three social partners, governments, employers and trade unions, of course, all to ensure the development of the country, on the one hand, and social justice, on the other hand. Secondly, even though the argument states that the government is not an employer and is not a member of the employers' association, we believe that the government is at least in a specific way an employer for several hundred thousand employees of social activities, public enterprises and public services. So a huge number of employees would not be subject to a general collective contract, which we think is not good, and we think it should be applied. Third, more guarantee is given to the conclusion and application of collective agreements, as well as to the protection of workers, especially in the light of confusion that follows in the conclusion and application of collective agreements. The general collective agreement, namely, concludes the representative association of employers. I ask – can Mr. Minister tell us the argument that today is a representative employers' association? Then, and a representative union. And here we see in the press these days that there are disputes. A special collective contract is concluded by others, of course, including the Government, but not covered by the first, or general collective agreement, and so on, all together can cause confusion. I think the government's involvement in this would be a guarantee and affirmation of collective agreements, and protection of all workers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. For these reasons, we propose that the above-mentioned amendment be adopted and that the general collective agreement be concluded by the government, employers and the union, so all three social partners.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12113	Thank you. According to the same amendment, Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Stevanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12114	Thank you, Mr. President. Along with my colleague, Petronivic, on behalf of the SPS, I have submitted an amendment to Article 243 of the law. It is our opinion, and in this amendment, we have announced that a general collective agreement should be concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a representative association of employers and a representative union established for the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Compared to the bill, the text is extended to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should be someone who participates in the conclusion of a general collective agreement. In the past few days, we have heard from the motionary many different explanations about the same things. He once called for the experience of EU countries, so the proposed solution accordingly, he once called for the IOR provisions, so the proposed solution is in line. When some things were to be explained that were illogical, a different answer was to be given. In one word, the promoter sought out more favourable solutions for himself, sometimes fleeing into the past to explain the present, and sometimes talking about things that had nothing to do with the amendments. I'm not saying this by chance, because it would be interesting for me to hear from the proposings the opinion of this amendment, for the reason that the promoter had the opportunity to speak in principle, when the debate was in principle. This is a debate on amendments, and it is good to hear the proposal, when we talk about amendments, a concrete response to the amendment. In the morning, the promoter skillfully avoided giving answers to individual amendments to the SPS MPs, speaking in principle and speaking about everyone, which is not correct. Each of us MPs has his own name, belongs to a certain parliamentary group, and it is their turn to say – the MP and this one, or the amendment, and that one is and that one, or not to say, but without general evaluations. We feel that this amendment is very important because there is no regulated economic system with us. That there is a regulated economic system, that there is an obligation for employers to all be members of the employers' union, and that employers on one side, and the representative union is known which, the Independent Union, to be on the other side, then it would be unnecessary for the government to be a participant in the conclusion of a collective agreement. Since there is no orderly system with us, and we believe that this is how the government escapes responsibility, we have proposed an amendment that we would like to include in the government. However, the government tried to indirectly include itself in the general collective contract story, but in one extremely incorrect way. You will see after we talk about Article 256, the minister is given the opportunity to extend the fact of the general collective agreement, but with the opinion of the Economic and Social Council of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, an opinion that should be adopted by 18 members and where a consensus is needed, which is also theoretically difficult to imagine that all 18 agree on one. If the government won't, I can't agree. By avoiding the government's involvement in the conclusion of general collective agreements, the proposer seems to us and cannot be taken away from that impression, it absolutely leaves a huge number of employees, let me say, in an open space for the impact of employers, since existing legal solutions, when it comes to joining employers in the employers' union as the basis for the conclusion of a collective contract, leave this issue open. And as soon as there is no obligation, the question is whether employers will want to be members of the association, especially if they need to take on a commitment that does not suit their financial abilities or do not want to meet something they do not have an obligation to do. We are such a people, no one can convince me that the principle of volunteering or solidarity will be something that will define employers to be members of the Union or to conclude collective agreements. I think the solution that provides for the government's commitment to employees is good. It's obviously not for the government, as soon as she didn't agree to participate in the business. (President: Time. Excuse me, Mr. President, one more moment. If the government thinks that's why they're going to stay away from this issue, then they're wrong, because one way or another this is going to go back to the government and the government, so it's better if the government participates. Because some positive experiences from the past also say that this was possible and that the solutions were good, rather than leaving a huge number of employees aside from this very important issue for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12115	Thank you. Following the same amendment, Mr. Stevanovic gave up. Mr. Mrvos and Miss Natasa Jovanovic reported. First we'll give the lady our word. Here you are, MP Natasa Jovanovic, and Mr Mr Mrvos.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12116	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is my chance to talk about the amendment submitted by colleagues Mrvos and Zarko Obradovic and Milisav Petronijevic from the SPS, respectively. The amendment I submitted on behalf of the SRS parliamentary group to the same member of the law, which is next in some order, at least strange to me, because in response to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the first response to the amendment I submitted came to me, because I asked for it to be concluded, added – the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then to the Rules of Procedure was to go to the next one which was completely changed by the member. Anyway, now is my chance to talk about it, because I risk the minister not being here tomorrow morning at 10:00, and most MPs, and this is a key amendment to the labour law. So, the SRS, just like the colleagues mentioned, fully supports this key amendment to the labour law. I must remind, first of all, of what happened two years ago when faked by the vote of the law in the National Assembly, which was organised by the previous DOS furniture, which was actively part of the DS, by the vote of Thessaloniki card Borislav Novakovic, which was passed by the then labour law. It was a period of distance, conditionally said, the DSS since then's DOS furniture and then the republican government, and the DSS, its MPs and then head of the Dejan Mihajlov parliamentary group said they would not vote for such a law on work so illegally voted in the National Assembly, theft, robbery, kidnapping of the worst possible species, because when you steal in the Assembly it's the most difficult work anyone can do. At that time, the government did not listen to the opinion of most MPs, including the SRS in the present assembly, as well as the DSS, that the government was behind the conclusion of a general collective agreement. I am now asking the question to this government, which has accepted Lalovic, and the SDP, and Covic and already who, that is the issue to Kostunica and the DSS, what has changed since two years and why, for which there is now no positive answer to such an amendment. However, it is not the same member as the regular number, it was approximately a member of 96 or 196, and don't mind me, and now it's 243, but we think it's necessary, as we once claimed, to oppose the DOS majority, who did indeed negative effects on the economy, produced a crisis, misery, poverty, and unemployment, that workers remain out of work, as we claimed at the time, and then the DSS claimed, we are telling you today. It is very important that the government is behind every collective contract, and not only, as explained, that it is the signator of a collective contract for public services, public enterprises, whose founder is the Republic. What about other large systems that are not privatized, with the Zastava car factory in Kragujevac, what about the factory of dedicated products, other systems that wait for what the government will do and how it will enter the process so-called. restructuring, then privatisation. I think it is necessary that every MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and does not belong to an SRS parliamentary group seeking such an amendment, should think about it very carefully. After all, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr Minister, under the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the collective agreement is contained in Article 35. The Constitution. Speaking then about what kind of trouble it will be for workers across Serbia, which unfortunately happened because of such DOS policy, then, you who were in this DOS council and the public, Prof. Vojislav Seselj warned you from this pay phone that Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia contains a collective agreement. So the collective contract is a general constitutional category. You can't now, in the context of a valid constitution, say, the government will respect it only when it comes to, as you've put it, here, I'm finishing, companies whose founder, or republic, but must take responsibility for all other businesses, all other systems, in order for workers in Serbia to protect themselves. And we need colleagues from the DSS first and foremost to tell us what changed after two years, and theirs is now prime minister and he is now the executive of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12117	The word has Minister Lalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12118	I'll say a few words about the most important things that are mentioned here. So first, let me say what we're going to do with the car factory, the question is right, but it's not a question of a collective contract, it's what happened to the car factory and when it was destroyed. We all know that, in the period since 1992, when sanctions have been taken, so the car factory and the whole flag has been ruined, and I think it's completely inappropriate, when it comes to the car factory, to talk about a collective contract. We're trying to save her, to survive, not to disappear, and in that sense, it's completely inappropriate to mention that factory. As far as the constitutional category of collective agreement is concerned, there is certainly a Constitution, but it has nothing to do with the subject of a general collective agreement and the signing by the government, and so there is no misunderstanding, there is no interrelationship between us, simply so that people are not mistaken and that it doesn't sound like it has anything to do with it. As for the fundamental remarks, or amendments, when the government is asked to conclude a general collective agreement, we drop a few things out of sight. Of course, everything can be voted, but it can't be applied. In fact, the collective agreement always implies the mutual relationship between the participants of the collective agreement and they are regulating something among themselves, besides making money for others. This is a situation where, according to all known standards, under no circumstances, except delusion, total blindness and some petty political stories, we must not allow such a thing to happen in Serbia to be the only country in Europe where the government will act as the third signator of a collective contract relating to the economy. It doesn't matter, it's the opposite of every logic and every system. Of course, we can adopt that, it's just pointless. So I'm warning you it's pointless. The government achieves its social function, the function of the social partner, and how it is achieved through the economic and social council, whose functioning will now be based on the law, where it deals with all the important things that are important to all three social partners, but let's not force the government, let's not make such a solution that is completely pointless. To adopt that, now someone will sign it in front of the government and guarantee profits in the flag to someone. It's all nonsense, people, and don't do it for something that seems and sounds nice right now, to do a lot of damage. Regarding the same thing, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible for the overall economic policy, the conditions in which it is committed on the one hand, and on the other hand it appears as a representative of the owner, i.e. the state towards public enterprises and public services. It makes sense that he makes a profit here. When it comes to business, there's employers, there's employees, there's unions, there's no government. This, Serbia would be the only country in Europe that would have such an impossible solution and it is simply logically impossible. I urge you not to bring, no matter what is said, a solution that is logically impossible and harmful to the entire state and society. Something similar is happening with the second amendment, which is the question of the system, because there are two key things, and we'll talk about it tomorrow or when we're talking about this direct application. These are two things that are important, the government cannot be a signator of a general contract and we cannot allow such damage to Serbia, the promotion of chaos, uncertainty, such as direct application, as foreseen in another amendment. What the government has offered is something quite clear, if employers and trade unions conclude a general collective agreement and when employers and trade unions conclude special or border collective agreements, the government can decide, or the Minister on the extended action of one and other collective agreements, and this is a matter of policy making. Don't let us go back to the social property requirements of socialist self-management, at a time when neither is there. We want to put the same thing in a completely wrong bowl. I know that may sound popular when it's said that the government of Kobajagi will guarantee something if it signs a general contract, but that's nonsense. The government can't do that. The government's working differently. I'm telling you about it, because what works at first glance is actually a completely wrong approach. How can the government arrange mutual relations with the first five-year-old workers or the future owner of the First Five-year-olds, because it is privatised. It means nothing, not with this, not with the owners. Don't, people, let's make it, let's take the clock back, when he's gone straight ahead. There isn't. Privatisation in Serbia will end with all comments. The capital in Serbia will have the owner, all the capital. It will be private, or actional, or state-owned. There will be no more social property. It's gone. Don't make forms for social property here where there's no room for it anymore. So, simply, I call upon the MPs not to do any damage and I say in advance now, if God is alive in a year, if it happens that the MPs adopt that the government concludes a general contract and that they are directly applied, in a year, wherever we are sitting here, we can see each other, I say to you, that there will be direct material damage to those you want to protect. So that's why I'm saying that, so it wouldn't be later -- we didn't know what it was about, as it's often said. Or -- I'm not from this neighborhood, I don't know what the moon is, what it's like, I'm not from this neighborhood. So, don't let people do that. We'll do direct damage. I know it can cause, as I see it, an MP's smile. It's okay. There's no room for that. When there's damage, you don't need to smile. A little more responsibility and a little less partying - I think we could all use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2005-02-08-0.u12119	Thank you. We will continue tomorrow at 10.00 p.m., first with the replica of Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic and then on the amendments. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, good afternoon. We continue the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2005. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 173 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, there are enough MPs present in the hall and therefore there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Velimir Stanojevic (before noon). We move to the 7th item of the agenda: – PROPOSAL OF RAD (resuming in particular) I remind you that at yesterday's session we started a debate on amendments to Article 243 which, in the same text, were submitted by MP Dusan Mrvos and joint MPs Zarko Obradović and Milisav Petronijevic. The debate was attended by MPs Milisav Petronijevic, Zarko Obradovic and Natasa Jovanovic, as well as Slobodan Lalovic, Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, whose presentation was followed by MP Natasa Jovanovic. He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
